ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u1	I open the 28th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk and Senator Alexander Swede to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 25th Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that point 4 and point 5 of the draft agenda be considered, although the reports of the committee responsible on these matters have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending certain laws determining the conditions for carrying out innovative activities and consider it as item seven of the agenda; the Act amending the Law on tax offices and tax chambers and the Act on social security and consider it as item eight of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any calls. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 20th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. High Izbo, today at 12.00 will be ordered a half-hour break in the session for the opening of the exhibition "Polish to the Pope's world." John Paul II on posters. Tomorrow's proceedings will begin at 9.00 a.m. after considering the information of the Council of Ministers about the implementation in 2015 of the Act of 9 June 2011 on supporting the family and the system of foster care. The information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Canada will then be considered. I would like to inform you that if the Sejm adopts a law on amending the budget law for 2016 at its current meeting and after the Senate committee has prepared a report on the matter, the agenda will be supplemented by a point including the review of that law. I remind you that the current Senate meeting was extended until 21 October 2016, which is until Friday. The votes will be held at the end of the meeting. We proceed to the first item of the agenda: the Out-of-court Consumer Dispute Resolution Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 282 and the committee's report in print No 282 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I would like to present a report by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act on Out-of-court Consumer Dispute Resolution adopted by the Sejm on 23 September 2016. The purpose of the Out-of-court Consumer Dispute Resolution Act is to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on alternative methods for resolving consumer disputes and to amend the ADR Regulation and Directive in consumer disputes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet, and if anyone has to talk, please leave the room. Mr Senator, I would very much like to ask you not to disturb the rapporteur. You're welcome, Senator.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The aim of the Directive is to ensure that consumers are able to apply for the settlement of disputes with traders to operators offering independent, impartial, transparent, effective and rapid alternative solutions. According to the directive, access to cheap and efficient consumer dispute resolution will also benefit traders who will obtain an instrument to avoid long-term and costly litigation in consumer disputes. The ADR Directive provides for a uniform system of out-of-court dispute settlement in all Member States. In Poland, there is a mixed model for the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, hereinafter referred to as the ADR system, consisting in the co-operation of both ADR business entities and public ADR entities. In Poland, as I would like to stress here, there are 16 permanent friendly consumer courts created by the provincial trade inspection inspectors based in voivodship cities. In addition to friendly consumer courts, a second alternative method of resolving civil law disputes in the context of commercial inspections is the mediation procedure. The new ADR model is to be based on a mixed approach, in which there are both non-public and public entities, which will include inter alia. entities set up by entrepreneurs, public entities of a sectoral nature, including the President of UKE, President of URE and President of UTK, and Trade Inspection. All these entities must be entered in the register of authorised entities maintained by the President of the OOKiK in order to obtain the status of an entity authorised to settle out-of-court consumer disputes. The law we are talking about today and which we are proceeding will apply to proceedings aimed at out-of-court resolution of domestic and cross-border disputes concerning contractual obligations arising from sales contracts or other contracts concluded with consumers by traders established in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The scope of the Act covers parties to consumer disputes: entrepreneurs established in the territory of the Republic of Poland and consumers residing in the territory of a Member State of the European Union. The basic principle of dealing with out-of-court consumer dispute resolution is to initiate this procedure at the consumer's request. I would also like to stress that the monitoring of the proper performance of duties by entities entitled to out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes and the coordination of cooperation between these entities belong to the President of the OOKiK. The adoption of the new law therefore also requires a revision of the provisions of other laws. I'll just say a few of them. These are the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, the Energy Law, the Postal Law, the Telecommunications Law and the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection. About the progress of the legislative work... I will not give a full report here to the High House, because this information is in the report from the committee meeting and from the parliamentary work in the Sejm. I would like to stress that at the meeting of the Joint Committees, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, 5 amendments were proposed by the Legislative Bureau. All these proposals were taken over by President Michael Seweryński. All these amendments were accepted, as well as the entire draft law, together with the amendments resulting from these amendments. It was adopted unanimously. I ask the High House to accept the proposed bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see anyone willing, I don't hear... [[It's...]] Mr. Senator Augustine and Mr. Senator Florek, please, in that order.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u4	Mr President, I did not ask this at the committee meeting, and I am very interested in whether one of the fundamental barriers that can be observed in the area of consumer rights protection, the lack of information about consumer rights and the place where they can be sought... Is this bill going in that direction to make this information more accessible?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u5	Thank you, Senator. Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, you just said that the procedure is initiated at the consumer's request. As far as I know, consumers are afraid to go to court. Sometimes these are, I would say, trivial matters, so... so I have a question about whether mediation, the action of friendly courts, which in some way can speed up the resolution of these cases... What's the cost issue? As far as the court costs are concerned, we know, but what they're going to look like in this case... Will the consumer bear these costs, or will it, because we have such a right, be financed by the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u7	Thank you, Senator. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u8	Thank you. These subjects were not discussed at the committee meeting. As regards the first question, Senator Augustyn, I would like to say that the bill itself will be announced in accordance with the procedure, and the information you have asked for should be widely communicated by public administrations. This law makes it possible to resolve such disputes in a significant way. The extension procedure generates costs. It is known that a court hearing generates far greater costs than amicable handling of the case. I'm thinking about it. This is my interpretation, my opinion, because it did not appear in the committee's work. This information should also be communicated to local government units, mainly those involved in consumer protection, applications and various complaints. And as for the second question, we didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. I think the Minister will answer that question later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u9	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to the meeting of the Vice President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, Minister Dorota Karczewska. I would like to inform you that the coincidence of names is accidental. Would you like to speak? [[Vice President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection Dorota Karczewska: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Thank you for taking care of this bill so quickly. I'd like to complete the answer to Senator Augustine's request. For a long time we have been talking about senior consumers, about making consumer order in this area. That's your question for the record. In order to reassure the senators, I will say this: by promoting an alternative dispute resolution system, we will promote a consumer complaint management system at all. Today we are preparing for such an action, a large information campaign in the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, so that the consumer knows where to go with his problem. The point is to make these numerous complaints During my work on this law, I have repeatedly stressed this. They weren't scattered. They often go to your senators, they go to Members, and perhaps they should go to such a doctor of first contact. And in that information, we're going to show you who the first contact doctor is and who else could handle the consumer matter. So much for information. I would just like to add that the Act itself provides for the obligation for traders to inform whether they are subject to an alternative method of resolving consumer disputes. So that these duties are kind of complementary. As regards the second point, the issue of payment, free of charge, in principle the Directive accepts free of charge, but it may happen that the ADR centre will establish such a remuneration, only that it cannot restrict access to amicable dispute resolution. According to our estimates, this remuneration should not exceed PLN 30. But as a rule, It's free of charge. I would like to stress one thing: the committee has reversed this rule in the course of its work, and today, in the second amendment, you will see this provision that, in principle, the procedure is paid. Therefore, when voting on this law, I would ask you very much to reflect on this principle of free-of-charge in terms of amicable conduct in various contractual forms. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine, please. Madam President, we have questions for you as a representative of the government. If you could stay... Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u12	Minister, I would like to ask if the system you mentioned and the potential of non-governmental consumer organisations will be exploited in connection with this law. Because here there are a lot of entities that are, of course, involved, and sectorally, and, so to speak, globally, but those that are closest to the customer are not mentioned at all, e.g. the district consumer spokespersons are not seen here, there are no such consumer organisations... How will this work after the introduction of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u13	Yes, thank you, that's a very accurate question. Note that the ADR system is largely based on industry centres, so this is not the first contact doctor, this is the doctor who is about to cure, eliminate the cause. Consumer spokespersons in our system and in this concept are doctors of first contact who are to direct the specialist to do so. They're not in the system, but they're next door and they're part of this kind of concept. As far as consumer organisations are concerned, today they run two projects... basically three projects. The first project is a consumer infoline, and there the consumer is directed where he can turn to a particular problem. The second project, which is run by consumer NGOs, is consumer e-assistance, and there the consumer already has the opportunity to submit documents; these documents are analysed within the framework of this guidance, and it can already be more appropriate, so to speak, to explore the problem and to give a more detailed response. And the third project in which NGOs participates is field guidance provided by the Consumer Federation at the moment. So that in our assessment the system is complementary. The point is that after he has implemented the Extra-Judge Dispute Resolution Act, he simply closes himself in a way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Now, Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: Majer.]] ...Major, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u15	Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Madam Minister, could you ask the President to assess how much this change will affect consumer protection? As I say, there are now consumer courts that are already in operation. They work differently, but it's some form of action. However, if this were possible, I would ask you to try to make such an assessment of effectiveness, to assess how much this out-of-court system would be better for the Polish consumer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u16	I ask you, in general, that there is a tendency for entrepreneurs to submit to this type of procedure, there must be an adequate quality of these centres, i.e. the right holders. Today, with this quality, it can be very different, because the system is dispersed, it is not coordinated. The draft law provides that the coordinator of the system and the mentor of the whole concept is the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, and the rightholders are required to report on what they do, which in some ways gives a picture of this consumer world. So first of all, thanks to the fact that the President will coordinate the activities of these rightholders and there will be an exchange of experience between them, we should improve quality. If quality is ensured, in my opinion there will be a greater tendency for entrepreneurs to submit to such disputes. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, consumers generally don't go to court with consumer cases. This is due to the fact that the value of the subject matter of the dispute is usually low, the proceedings take place for a long time, and in general also the judges simply do not have a heart for these disputes. In my view, if knowledge of the functioning of such a system can be promoted, consumers' tendency to complain will increase. Today we often give up complaint in general because we know that the second stage is the court. And if we know that there is a second stage of advertising, some mediation, some conclusion, then in my opinion the tendency of consumers to complain will be higher, which will also force better management of consumer complaint in the complaint process by the entrepreneur. That's what it looks like in the concept. I hope it works in practice, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. You're welcome, Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u18	Since the system is being introduced in a similar way in the European Union under EU regulation, I would like to ask whether it has a cross-border dimension, whether there are any activities in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u19	Yes, Mr. Senator, this system will operate both in Poland and will deal with cross-border sales. Today we are only talking about the implementation of the directive on alternative dispute resolution, but it is also about disputes in online purchases, i.e. the ODR platform will be linked to the ADR platform. Therefore, it will again be a closed system in which consumer complaint management will be consistent.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u20	Thank you. Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u21	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask you about the proposed wording of the article. 41 of the new bill. On the basis of the proposed amendments, the Article. 41 The possibility of charging the consumer fees is envisaged on the basis of a very subjective and debatable criterion that the total amount of charges collected from the consumer concerned should not significantly impede access to out-of-court consumer dispute resolution. Here's the question. According to which key and who will verify whether, in a particular case for a particular consumer, the charge constitutes a significant impediment to access to instruments enabling out-of-court handling of the case or minor, not affecting the possibility for the consumer to finance it? The lady in her speech said it was supposed to be about 30 zlotys. Where does this come from, and who will judge this greatness?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u22	As I mentioned earlier, the system is coordinated and monitored by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, so if the reports or the notification of the rightholder indicate that he wants to introduce a fee which will make access more difficult, i.e. it will be in line with our recognition for today of more than 30 PLN, we will wonder whether this entity should belong to this system. I'm sure the superintendent of this system will get a clear signal that this charge is making access difficult. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u23	Thank you very much. I don't see any more people willing to ask questions. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Vice President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection Dorota Karczewska: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Augustine signed up to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! We live in a consumer society. Employees, entrepreneurs, officials are some of us, and consumers are all. Thus, this law applies to all of us, and concerns very vital matters of everyday life, because we shop daily, and this is welcome in various ways. I would like to say today, first of all, that I do not think that the situation of consumers in Poland In comparison with other countries, it was good. As I hear in other countries, what you can do with goods when you can give them away without any problems, without the slightest translation, and I compare it with how it is with us, I think there is a lot to do. It's not good. I'm very sorry, Mr. Senator, but I'm addressing those words, so to speak, a little bit to your back instead of to the Minister. I wanted to say again: I believe that Polish consumers are not sufficiently protected, they do not feel that they are those who have the money, who pay, who have the advantage over the seller, and that they should be. And there are groups that, for various reasons, have lower social potential, and have a lower level of consumer rights knowledge and, in general, in legal terms, I mean disabled people, I mean seniors who are in an even more difficult situation than others. But I don't really see it in the legal system. 'Cause I'm not talking about the activities of NGOs or even your office, because it happens. Special safeguards for this growing group of consumers, which are seniors. That's my first point. The second point is a little bit from the question I asked. Namely, I believe that the fundamental barrier to improving the situation of ourselves as consumers is, of course, a lack of knowledge, because this makes us helpless. Someone tells us something, we don't know how to answer it, and we go away very often because it's impossible because we've been told... because we don't know anything about it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has noticed that, due to my other duties, I have been dealing with this issue, so maybe my knowledge is a little bit greater. But if we were to do a test here in this Chamber on what rights consumers have, what rights we have in purchasing goods, it would probably turn out that the result would not be particularly satisfactory for us. There's a lot of work to be done in this area, really. I know from the state, from the Consumer Federation, from other consumer organisations, that if you do this job Only that, unfortunately, in our country, it is an action-based campaign, it is effective, and it is immediately seen that there is an increase in notifications in this area. But just because there's a campaign going on, for the time we know a little bit more, we use these rights. As far as seniors are concerned, I think this potential... I'm very sorry. I'm looking at the senator here. But unfortunately, the deliberations made it impossible for me to attend this interesting senior conference. Indeed, senior organisations today have quite a lot of potential, which, Minister, would be worth taking advantage of in this right case. Ladies and gentlemen, no one is cut as much on the sale of goods, especially in the context of so-called direct sales like seniors. We hear about the various actions taken by the police, by the D.A.'s office. I'm not saying it wasn't happening, but at the meetings I had, I found out it was really chasing a running bunny. There was a story about a company in Wroclaw that was running an extortion operation under the pretense of selling garbage, real garbage, that is, things for nothing useless, which, as we often say, were shoved into seniors, boasting not how. The organized group, ladies and gentlemen, with psychologists who watched the assembled, who, using certain techniques, drew opponents for separate conversations, fled the law enforcement authorities. By the time something was done in Wroclaw, the group was already in Legnica, and before they got there, it was in Głogów. This dance can still be conducted. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be necessary to think about introducing the so-called principle. one window, one place where representatives of these groups especially, so to speak, disadvantaged in the consumer market... They'd know that's where they'd find it. Okay, here's a note. Friendly advice. People who come to me and come to me talk about how they try to explain themselves... It's trying to explain that they still don't understand anything, so if we use the potential of third-century universities if we use the potential of senior councils, we could create such a dense network with non-governmental, senior organizations... Ladies and gentlemen, who in the municipality has any idea of the existence of a district consumer attorney? No one knows about this, I assure you. And there's shops, there's sales, that's where you run marketing campaigns, and you fall for customers, and you cheat them for large sums, which is why I think that's still the problem. I'm giving this to the minister for consideration. At Parliamentary Group meetings. Elderly representatives of the organization expressed interest in getting into something like this. If consumers' lawyers, these districts, were in the cascade system those who supported social information points of interest, we could really get to a lot of information, and that would be real progress, who knows or does not revolution. Because we can really create, with the help of Europe and ourselves, a lot of regulations, but these will be tools that will lie on the table, and rarely will anyone reach for them. In my opinion, it's time for a breakthrough in this matter, and it's worth thinking about it. I'm still giving this idea to the next governments, and I'm giving it to the office, and I hope that somebody will pick it up someday, that with the help of an organization, even if it's consumer, they'll do a program that will finally be realized, as I ask the rulers and all the allies of the elderly today.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Major, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Senators! Once President Kennedy said, "We're all consumers." I will add that we have all been, and we will all be consumers, therefore the weight of this draft law, which we are discussing today, is important; it really concerns all of us. I would like to thank the UOKiK and the President personally for the preparation and formulation of these laws, which significantly improve the quality of consumer protection. But the quality of consumer protection isn't just a law, it's people too. My venerable previous speaker talked about consumer organizations, consumer movements, everything that's going on. And that's one thing, and I'll be right back. But I also need to talk about a part that has a direct impact on the seller. Because the fact that we often fail to win against an unfair salesman is that there is still a large group of people on the market who believe that it is possible to cheat with impunity is unfortunately also a situation for which the State is responsible. And the weakness of our public institutions is, unfortunately, not elsewhere but in consumer protection matters. 'Cause, ladies and gentlemen, what Senator Augustine was talking about... He was talking about the ombudsman. But the basic institution to protect the consumer is a commercial inspection. We have a network of voivodship commercial inspectors, we have 16 voivodship commercial inspections, we have a network of delegations. But, ladies and gentlemen, in these delegations, inspectors have very limited funding for staff. And this staff isn't as trained as we'd like. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a problem. Because with the number of commercial operators that the commercial inspection is supposed to control... And this is, Dear State, and the control of operators trading in chemical or food products, and the control of the fuel market, and also the control of gastronomy. There, ladies and gentlemen, small groups of inspectors are insufficient to protect the customer effectively. Since in the Śląskie voivodship, one of the largest voivodships in our country, with more than 4 million inhabitants, is, Dear State, the commercial inspection which employs people... There's 100 jobs in there. And, ladies and gentlemen, if we compare this with the number of economic operators, we can see that, even if these people have doubled and tripled, they will not be able to carry out checks effectively. And in situations where irregularities occur, check In addition to knowledge, of course, in addition to the knowledge of the consumer himself It is one of those tools by which the State can demonstrate effective action. Therefore, with this opportunity, having this law, which was very much needed, we need to think about how to strengthen the human, financial and instrumental potential of the regional inspectors, commercial inspections and delegations. Because these are the players who are primarily protecting the interests of the consumer. I'm going to go now, ladies and gentlemen, to the local authorities. There's a network of county attorneys for consumer rights. Indeed, in every word they function. When you look at the practice of individual advocates, it seems that you can also try to activate them. Because what we're talking about is also an attempt to reach the environment with information, with a new message. In fact, the district spokespersons are closest to the citizen. There are over 300 counties, they operate there, work and accept parties. But, ladies and gentlemen, we need to think about what action should be taken to make consumers' rights spokespersons more active so that they can come to society more with information. In fact, Dear Member States, there are groups on the market that are groups in a particular way, and I am not afraid to use that word. Infirmed. What I'm talking about is a handicap, it's information deficits. I'm talking about seniors who benefit from the silver economy. 'Cause there's a richer range of products and products for them. But at the same time, they also lose, because they are an easy prey for dishonest entrepreneurs. And, ladies and gentlemen, we must also think about how to reach such people with information, but also how to build a system that will protect this social group in a special way. I hope that this topic will be the subject of the conference that we are planning to hold here in the Senate, around 15 March, is the consumer's day, International Consumer Day. Together with the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. The theme will be the silver economy and what is happening in the silver economy, how to better protect this slightly older consumer, who has less access to information and is more easily manipulated. Because unfortunately very often, Dear State, those who come to a client of senior age, an elderly consumer, manipulate and are able to sell very effectively... Even if the water filters, which in the shop around the corner, in the warehouse, cost 200 zlotys, they sell for 1 thousand 200 zlotys or 1 thousand 500 zlotys. And such examples can be multiplied. We need to say very clearly and clearly that this law increases the opportunities of the consumer on the Polish market. And I thank the government for that. But it's still not enough for us to feel safe as consumers. Both us and our families and seniors who are also victims of such activities. We're waiting for more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Madam President! Mediation, friendly courts, of course, is the right direction. I think it took a few years to work on the bill, and it's a good thing we're finalizing it today, because it's worth taking the courts off. The point is that consumers should be more courageous to demand their rights, because it can be different. Senator Augustine said that this awareness in rural areas is much lower than in cities, especially in large cities. There consumers who use, I do not know, large-area shops, etc., are more aware of what rights they have and what they can do in this situation. I'm glad some action is being taken. My previous speakers talked about the possibilities of, i.e., voivodship commercial inspections, district consumer spokespersons, about the fact that as much action as possible should be taken in order for there to be more knowledge, free legal advice, which should also be used. After all, the previous government prepared this. The point is to use all of this to have full knowledge of your abilities. I'm sure that knowledge isn't enough for today. I remember... The senator was talking about seniors. I recall that in the office of the voivodship where I worked, together with the voivodship police headquarters, we published such a guide. And there, in fact, all the information you were talking about was contained. I know that this guide was also reprinted in other voivodships. So it is worth looking for different ways to get this information to consumers, because this is the main task. And that's why I asked you about the cost. Because it is known that if it is cost-free or costs are low 30 PLN will not be a problem It is then that I have the courage to pursue my rights. To sum up... Therefore, I think there will be a lot of work to do with this, Madam President, to get here, to inform everyone knowingly to enjoy those rights which they have at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. There are no more calls. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Martynowski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dismissed until 12:30. Thank you very much. And of course, I invite everyone to the opening of the exhibition at 12:00. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 44 to 12 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u30	I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the second agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of disaster prevention, natural disasters, other serious accidents and the removal of their consequences, signed in Białystok on 23 April 2015. The text of the Act is contained in print No 283 and the report of the Commission In print No 283 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration, a report on the meeting of the committee which examined the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of disaster prevention, natural disasters, other serious accidents and the removal of their consequences, signed in Bialystok on 23 April 2015. Negotiations on this matter have been ongoing since 2001 and numerous arrangements have extended this procedure. This is a very necessary agreement because it organizes the way the government of the Republic of Poland and the government of Belarus operate in these exceptional cases. The actions of the forces of nature and man sometimes go beyond the borders of one country, and so far the services could operate only to the border of Poland or the border of Belarus. So that the adoption of this law will allow for widespread action. The contract contains detailed standards which lay down the rules for crossing the border, the rules for residence and all forms of mutual assistance for those disasters or other exceptional events in common with the good of the environment or people. The joint committees have adopted this law without amendment and are asking the High House to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u32	Thank you very much. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Fat.]] Senator Grubski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u33	Dear Marshal, Dear Senator, Whether there was information at the committee meeting, how this area is saturated, in terms of such dangers, i.e. whether they are. industrial plants that could lead to disaster? Well, what's this border look like in terms of security anyway? Whether it's just a green area and really you have to deal with natural disasters that concern nature, or if it's a saturated area, for example. Industrially?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u34	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u35	This is mostly forest land, but there are various cases possible. After all, animals live in the woods, animals live... It is also a question of transport, because today various substances are being transported, also harmful. It is therefore necessary to do so. The Belarusian party ratified this agreement in 2015 and is now waiting for its ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u36	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! Senator! Of course, natural disasters, natural disasters happen and happen, and there are no limits to these matters. I remember exactly the year 2010, when there was a famous flood in Poland, and I remember the actions we took at that time. So I think that this is a very important agreement and it is important to ratify this agreement. Besides, he's the last of our neighbors... And there's gonna be a deal with him, too. My question is strictly technical. I don't know if it's due to the signing of this agreement in the event of some kind of disaster, an emergency disaster, for example... I understand that the rules of law have been adapted so that the requirements for documents, etc., concerning crossing the border are minimized. But this is about taking action. Because until now, as you said, we have been able to take action to the border, on the other hand, our neighbour to the border. Now, in the event of an emergency, will we have to wait for the neighbour to invite us so that we can take action, or will it also be possible to take action on our side?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u38	Special procedures are included in the records, these actions are strictly agreed on the conditions to be met by both the Polish and Belarusian sides, depending on where the event takes place and what it concerns. Whether it concerns the environment, whether it concerns people, whether it concerns the railway disaster. I think if the senator wishes it, the minister or chief of state fire department will welcome you here. We started a little earlier because we have a lot of points scheduled for this Senate meeting. I think here... I can recall a few records, the most important articles of the contract. Improving the disaster detection and notification system That's what Art. 6 and joint research projects, joint exercises, joint preparation of specialists and specialist programmes. Art. 7 lays down the rules for crossing the border and residence in the territory of the other party, taking into account the list of documents authorising crossing the border set out in Annex 1 to the Agreement. In particular, members of the rescue group shall be entitled to cross the border on the basis of an identity document s e.g. passport, diplomatic passport or service card of the competent services without the need for a visa and residence permit. It is very important that we can react quickly without checking those documents that are valid under normal international contacts. Of course, these documents would only be sufficient in emergency situations. Art. 8 lays down rules for the movement of equipment and aid measures across the state border which are exempt from customs duties, taxes and charges. The aid measures carried may include medical materials in the form of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and it is therefore necessary to regulate the rules for the transport of such materials, as set out in the paragraph. Article 6 8. And so on... I don't think I'm gonna read it anymore, because we weren't in so much detail, we didn't ask it at the committee meeting, and I'm actually just reporting it. I just want to say... This is very interesting and this should already happen because it will make this cooperation much easier for us. I may still, in my curiosity, tell the senators that recently Minister Waszczykowski also managed to sign an education agreement, which is kind of another step in a positive direction in cooperation with Belarus. Because, as I said at the beginning, talks and negotiations have been going on since 2001, and today it is 2016 so it has been 15 years. It wasn't easy. But now these relationships are improving. It's definitely with our... We're all happy about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u39	Thank you very much. Senator Grubski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u40	If the senator won't be able to answer, I'll ask the minister. I mean... Does this deal involve any costs? I understand it this way: there is a situation, an event at the border, e.g. on the Belarusian side and the Polish fire department, which is closer to this event, carries out certain activities. Is there any cost involved, or is it mutual assistance in this agreement, and it is costless?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u41	I'm sure there are costs, because you have to send people and so on, but it's under this contract, so once we're paying the costs, once they are. I think that maybe the Chief Chief or the Minister will say something more, because it wasn't at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u42	There's no more questions to ask. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to Minister Jarosław Zieliński. I also welcome the Chief of State Fire Department, Mr Leszek Suski. Welcome. Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Of course, the government is asking for the agreement to enter into force. It is very necessary and important. Belarus is the last country with which we have not signed such an agreement... such an agreement, because it is exactly an agreement, and there are also agreements. So far we have concluded 10 such agreements with neighbouring countries: with the Federal Republic of Germany, with the Government of the Russian Federation, with the governments of the Republic of Lithuania, the Slovak Republic, with the Republic of Hungary, the Czech Republic, with Ukraine, Croatia, Slovenia. Now there will be an agreement with Belarus. We have also signed several cooperation agreements on prevention of events that require cross-border cooperation or removal of their effects. This agreement has been negotiated for a long time, because actually the beginnings of the negotiations date back to 2001, it can be said that even for a very long time. In 2007 there was some disruption in negotiations related to crossing the border, with documents and authorisations to cross the Polish-Belarusian border. Of course, the problem wasn't on our side, it was on the other side. Now the deal's been negotiated. There's as many records as the senator gave you. They regulate precisely the most important issues. To answer the questions that have already been asked By confirming what the senator said. I would just like to emphasise once again that action on the territory of the other party may take place at the invitation of this party. Of course, we cannot go to Belarus or Belarus on our own, on our own, cannot send our rescue services; this is done at the invitation. And it regulates the deal. The costs shall be borne by the inviting party. If the Belarusian side invites our services, it will cover the costs of their operation on its side, and if the Belarusian services conduct rescue operations in Poland, then of course Poland will cover these costs. That's the deal. The risks of natural disasters, industrial accidents or environmental disasters are inherently cross-border. People set political boundaries between states and natural phenomena, as well as the consequences of disasters that result from the development of civilization, naturally exceed those limits. In this case, both the response time and the forces and the means that are needed are important... Sometimes it happens that in a country, especially in border areas, these forces and resources may be too small, so support for the neighbouring country When the agreement will be made, it may be very necessary. The Government of the Republic of Poland commends the fact that the Government of the Republic of Belarus wants to implement this agreement; the attitude of our partner is finally such that the agreement can start to function. The procedure in which the contract is concluded is also very important. This is an agreement ratified by the President as a result of a law adopted by Parliament, which means that if the provisions of this agreement were contrary to the laws, the provisions of that agreement would have priority. This will make it easier to take effective rescue measures when needed. And because there are a lot of threats in the modern world and those natural, and those resulting from human activities It's as a government. The Republic of Poland is convinced that it is worth it with the latter country with which we are bordering, to conclude such an agreement and to support each other in situations where such a need arises. On behalf of the Government, I ask the High Senate to support this document and allow the President of the Republic to ratify it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u44	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Minister, please stay with us because they might be asking you a question. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u45	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, in this Chamber, we talked about African swine fever, a problem that has just come to us from Belarus. Does this agreement provide for cooperation on the Okay, let's get this straight. The eradication of the herds of wild boars that carry this disease?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u46	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u47	He doesn't see it coming. Its content was the subject of a much earlier agreement than this problem which now concerns us. There is also a question of definition. Is this a kind of natural disaster? I don't think so. It would probably be possible to reflect on such phenomena, but at this stage the agreement is being conducted in the form in which it was negotiated and initially signed last year. It is not possible to add new elements to it at this stage, because this would significantly extend ratification procedures, reconciliation procedures. I think we can deal with this issue in Poland, although the situation is not easy because there is a threat of ASF, African swine fever. I do not want to get into this because it is not the subject of this discussion, but if action on this matter had been taken much earlier, we would have avoided what is today. But we are in a given place and at a given time and you have to react as the present reality requires. But I must say directly that such cooperation in the event of this threat is not provided for in this agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u48	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the 2014 Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour, adopted on 23 February 2006 in Geneva, approved on 11 June 2014 by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva. The text of the Act is in print No 284 and the committee's report in print No 284 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the joint committees a report on the committee's meeting on the Law on the ratification of the 2014 Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention, adopted on 23 February 2006 in Geneva, approved in Geneva on 11 June 2014 by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation. The joint committees, after discussion at the meeting, propose the adoption of this law without amendment. This agreement is a modern agreement with a simplified procedure. Poland ratified the Maritime Labour Convention on 3 May 2012. It entered into force on 20 August 2013. It was implemented into Polish law only in the Act of 5 August 2015 on Maritime Labour and entered into force in November 2015, which means that Polish seafarers were deprived of the protection provided for in the Convention for a period of 2 years. The Maritime Labour Convention consists of three parts: articles, regulations and codes. The 2014 amendments amend the Code in the implementing part of Regulation 2.5, Repatriation and Regulation 4.2, as regards the Shipowners' liability in respect of the Maritime Labour Convention. Amendments to Regulation 2.5 are intended to regulate the situation in the event of abandonment of a seafarer. According to this regulation, all seafarers have the right to cover the cost of their repatriation to the country, but in practice the mechanism provided for in the Convention may not be sufficient in the case of abandoned seafarers. That's why it's an amendment. In turn, the amendment to the Code in the section on Regulation 4.2 extends the obligations of shipowners with regard to financial security to compensate claims in the event of the death of a seafarer or his long-term disability as a result of an accident at work, occupational disease or in the event of a life-threatening situation. Amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention will enter into force if by the end of the deadline, i.e. by 18 July 2014, no more than 40% shall object. States Parties to the Convention. No objection was raised by any State and the amendments will therefore enter into force on 18 January 2017 and will apply from that date. The Convention is covered by 91% world tonnage, that is actually all ships, because these 9% As we have been told in the committee, it concerns inland waterway transport. On behalf of the Joint Committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure, I request that this law be adopted in accordance with the draft resolution of the Senate which I presented to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u50	Thank you very much. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Grubski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u51	Senator, did I understand correctly that shipowners should generate within their own resources a certain amount which, in the event of abandoning a certain sailor, gives the opportunity to repatriate to the country? Did I get that right? [[It's a kind of work code for sailors...]] But how does that fit into this... Because if he gives up, then, well, he's doing a negative thing for a sailor, and on the other hand he's interested in paying?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u52	I think it's a very specific question, maybe I'll ask someone from the Ministry of Labour for help, because they're individual cases, it doesn't happen often... Since all the countries that have... Shipowners apply these provisions, but this had to be sorted out and hence these amendments to existing documents in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u53	Maybe we should move this question to a government representative. I don't see any other questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Family Affairs, Labour and Social Policy and the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to Minister Paweł Brzezicki. Come on in, Minister. Your vote, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u54	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! We ask very much, as a government, to allow the President to ratify the Convention on Maritime Labour because the signing of this Convention by the Polish State will safeguard Polish seafarers or sailors sailing with Polish shipowners against the consequences resulting from the abandonment by the ship owner or from any claims resulting from... [[From random events.]] Yeah, from random events. Thank you, Senator. Maybe I'll zoom in because your question contained the essence of this convention... The company is obliged to cover itself, as part of its liability insurance, in the so-called. P&I clubs; these are mutual insurance clubs. At the moment of abandoning the sailor, leaving him somewhere on land when the ship sailed... The sailor is then entitled to claim compensation from this club, which, let's call it, settles the matter. This can be done by the company in two ways: either under national social security, i.e. the Social Security Office, etc., which in our reality will not be dealt with in this way, or as part of the company's insurance against risks to third parties. This is a new legal classification, because risks to third parties are usually some kind of collision with another object, and here the employee is still involved as an insured entity. At the moment the Convention is already covered by 90% The global fleet, its ratification in no way threatens the imbalance in the costs of Polish shipowners' business, and therefore I kindly ask the High Senate to accept our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u55	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Klein, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u56	Minister, I would like to ask how many Polish seafarers will now be covered by this convention. This concerns Polish shipowners, so... What's the number?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u57	You're welcome, Minister. [[Everyone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u58	Yes, of course... The senator tells me everyone, but the question is accurate. Mr. Senator, this concerns Polish shipowners, shipowners who employ seafarers under Polish law. There's 200 sailors like that. Regardless of the fact that also all other Polish sailors sailing under foreign flags in countries that have ratified this Convention... [[They will be embraced.]] ...they'll be embraced as well. [[Exactly.]] Yes. [[And how many Polish sailors are swimming...]] There are 54 thousand Polish sailors. [[But they don't swim under the Polish flag.]] [[No, it's about 200...]] About 200 sailors. [[The Minister said that...]] [[There's not that many.]] No, the fishermen are sure. [[They are, they are, they are. I thought there'd be even a little more, because it's...]] [[Fifty is.]] After all, PŻM is a huge Polish company, but ships sail under foreign flags. [[What? One ship does.]] [[Excuse me, you can still...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u59	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u60	Yes? Indeed, we talked about the fact that our sailors flying under Polish flags are about 200, but PŻM is a huge shipping company, perhaps one of the larger shipping companies in general. How many more or less they employ under different... Because they have ships under different flags, don't they? How many sailors could there be in this company?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u61	There are about 3,000 sailors, half of which are at sea. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u62	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. It is included in print No 289 and report No 289 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Jarosław Obremski, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of 2 committees, I recommend the High House to adopt the opinion of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of this draft regulation of the European Commission. It is a regulation on asylum seekers, refugees. The decision we will be discussing is a more political than legal decision, after all, it concerns an important problem with a humanitarian and political dimension. The refugee crisis is not just an organisational and financial challenge. I feel like this is a crisis with far-reaching political implications. Not only does he change electoral preferences to more Eurosceptical in many countries, let's call it an old Union or a more western part of the Union, but... I think it was also one of the reasons for the decision that took place in the UK in June. You could say it wasn't the crisis that caused it. Perhaps the fact that the European Union could not cope with this crisis has led some of the English to such a vote rather than another vote. We can say that we are considering a regulation that may not come into force. Many point out that the decision is so political that it should be a decision of the European Council and not of the European Commission. So, more Donald Tusk than Mr. Juncker... In Europe, on the one hand, there are voices that I would describe as... This is the speech that Orban presented a year ago, you have to find consensus, you have to look for an agreement on refugees that would not impose will on other countries, etc. Yeah, but this regulation is hanging over us. It is implemented and if accepted, it can always be started. Therefore, it is necessary to consider what the response of the Polish Parliament should be. It seems to me that the government of the Republic of Poland fully accepts the whole package of laws to regulate the refugee crisis. But with one exception The Polish Government does not agree with the arbitrary and forced admission of refugees. This means that we can only apply the so-called "only" in the instruments allowed by the Houses of Parliaments of the Member States after the Lisbon Treaty. A yellow card. So we can only bring this to a certain legal problem. I would like to say that the yellow card procedure has been launched by the Slovak and Hungarian parliaments, the lower chamber of the Czech Parliament, and today I do not know whether the decision has already been made or not. The Senate of the Czech Republic. I know what the position of the Czech Senate will be, confirming a breach of the principle of subsidiarity. Breaking the principle of subsidiarity means that it is more difficult to refer to certain substantive things or to elements that are a violation of the principle of proportionality. A breach of the principle of proportionality is certainly the punishment of a country that does not want to accept refugees, a penalty of EUR 250 000, or about PLN 1 million, for any unaccepted refugee. The Senate's position is therefore necessarily not a political position. It refers to two elements that we consider to be a violation of the principle of proportionality. Firstly, the point is that the European Union has not yet implemented the previous regulations, and it is already introducing the next ones, and secondly, it is talking about the crisis and, as part of a crisis solution, proposes a regulation, which is a permanent regulation. And that's one element of breaking the rule. The second element is that the powers of the national legislature are very deeply involved. Namely, the adoption of refugees in the longer or shorter term must mean a very serious adjustment in terms of, for example, social policy elements, and this is already a certain interference, something that is the sovereign decision of each country. Hungarians and Slovaks argue this a little differently. The position of the lower chamber of the Czech Republic is also very strong. They write, using such very strong words. It's such a strong rejection of the party. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm Well, I'd say we're dealing with a very big problem. There is a solution, under which the Polish government is signed, concerning strengthening borders, reducing the demand to be an immigrant arriving in the European Union through certain regulations and, above all, concerning assistance where refugees go in the first phase. High Izbo, on behalf of the two committees, I ask you to take up your position and launch, including on behalf of Parliament, the Senate, the institution of the yellow card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u64	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jarosław Oremski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u65	Mr Senator, I understand that there is a breach of the principle of subsidiarity when a matter of national parliament is able to deal with the country itself. The regulation specifically concerns rules for the reception of refugees. Like a Polish country As at the committee meeting it was argued Is he willing to accept these refugees himself without any amount of money being imposed? How does he want to get involved in this matter on his own so that he doesn't have to impose anything? How was it argued that we don't need this because we just have our own plan and we can accept maybe even more than we're trying to impose ourselves on?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u66	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u67	I think we're discussing two levels. Firstly, I wonder whether the principle of subsidiarity can be understood only from above down, i.e. how we solve the given... [[This is the principle of subsidiarity.]] Okay, it's just... And if it is that the proposal that is being made does not solve this problem, but deepens it? Because we are dealing with such a situation that many experts, several parliaments believe that in fact this Brussels regulation will cause an additional influx of migrants... Let's not kid ourselves, more emigrants than refugees. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. Although, of course, this limit is as if it were liquid. I don't quite get it. This is about us being obliged to accept refugees... I don't think so. I mean, I think this is a very strong entry into sovereign decisions with far-reaching political, social implications, etc. It seems to me that the subsidiarity principle says this: we should take this issue at this level and we can solve it at this level. [[That's what I asked. How are we going to receive refugees in Poland?]] Okay, but you're making the point of having refugees, and I'm a little bit in a different place. I think it is important to consider what policy should be in order to make the process of dealing with the refugee problem unnecessary on such a scale. It seems to me that the answer of the Polish government is: strengthening borders, helping in the place where refugee camps are being created, and by financial support supporting the process of assimilation, let us call it, in close foreign countries. It was a Polish proposal, probably formulated even earlier, also by the previous government, which slightly shifts the problem, but it seems to me that this is a relatively coherent answer. [[This is the answer not about, not about, the regulation.]] [[But I think he's on his own.]] No, I understand that, but this regulation does not solve the problem, and it is very much entering into the competences which should be the powers of the state and not of the European Union. [[But it's not...]] Okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u69	Thank you. Senator rapporteur, could you highlight this relationship, which is the subject of the procedure that the Dublin Convention, i.e. allowing an automatic allocation, or the percentage or principal allocation, contradicts the principle of subsidiarity? And you and I know that refugees come first and foremost to Europe, then choose their own countries, so that's not the problem. only Polish, nor the problem of Visegrad, as you emphasize it, forgetting that Poland is still neighbouring poor countries such as Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, but it is also a European problem. Second question. Is there a distinction in this position of Poland, as you rightly pointed out, between immigration and asylum seekers, persons subject to asylum law, fleeing for various reasons, racial, religious, political, or because of belonging to a particular political group? Third question. Did you mention that? But I don't expect your answer, though your knowledge may be very much. The Polish government presents a different position, says that other types of aid should be provided than reception of refugees. Would you mind commenting on that? I don't expect you to make precise statements here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u70	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u71	Still, I don't want to talk about government positions in detail. It's not my job. I do not know the positions of the Baltic States. [[This isn't about...]] Oh, that's okay. But I think there's a very basic problem here. If we are talking about the principle of subsidiarity, there is one argument that this is a problem that the European Union cannot deal with at national level, so it must find a general solution. In this sense, I would say that this is indisputable with the principle of subsidiarity. It seems to me that our answer is that the proposed solution is not a solution and it is very much interfering with the national level and therefore the subsidiarity principle has been violated. In my opinion, there's no other way to justify it. Please note that we have a problem, of course I agree. We have given up a very large part of the arguments that would indicate that we do not agree to this. I told you, for example. of the amount of the penalty which is absolutely disproportionate to the possible guilt. We thought that this was difficult to call contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, but it is only disproportionate. However, it seems to me that there are two conditions: far-reaching consequences for subsequent regulation, for example in social regulation law, and the second element, which I would say is somewhat related to the higher value, which is often referred to as a certain humanitarianism. In my opinion, the idea is: We will force you to a country you do not want to go to is very dangerous, because it marks an even greater barrier to refugee assimilation at the starting point than in Paris or Brussels. I leave you with the senator's assessment of how successful this integration has been for some minorities in these cities and in these countries. And that, in my opinion, is the very essence of the problem that we decide. The accent in Europe has now been very much shifted. Indeed, the discussion of political leaders with the most important leader, undoubtedly Chancellor Angela Merkel, is increasingly talking about finding softer solutions than the computer distribution of refugees between countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u72	Thank you very much. [[Can you supplement me?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u73	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for your kindness. But I also count on the courtesy of the president because I didn't extend... Do you think that in this situation also countries affected by the refugee problem, such as Greece, Italy, France and perhaps others, should also take a similar position as us? And if they had taken that position, how would you have seen the refugee problem? Or the government, how would they have seen it, depicting...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u74	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u75	The answer is, don't pretend to be Greek. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I would say that if the Greek side also introduced a yellow card in the mentioned case, I would be pleased because it would confirm the Polish position. Here we also have another problem that I want to draw attention to. This, of course, is a debatable problem. I've got some. more than the suspicion that for several years the Greek Government had made mistakes about refugees and at some point it came to the Greeks to pay for it It's disproportionate. I absolutely agree here. I also have the impression that this pull factor, which was created in 2015, was not triggered at the level of the Brussels decision. It has been largely triggered at the level of Germany, following a breach of the rules that apply in the European Union. And we have a problem right now. Someone's causing a crisis, and we're all paying. We can discuss this, but I would like to point out that there is a problem, including responsibility for what happened, which is not on our side. And I have the impression that... I mean, my experience with the Council of Europe is that the most aggressive anti-migration policy, in relation to helping with the issue in which Brussels wants to introduce it, runs the Czech Republic. There, all of this is very publicised and also very much articulated, above the political divisions in the Czech Republic, for example at Council of Europe level. I feel like we're really discussing a little bit next door, which means that the Polish government I share this view here that the solution proposed by Brussels is not a solution, but a deepening of the problem and in no way prepares us for a possible next phase of major immigration movements, which will be linked to the demographic surplus in Black Africa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u76	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u77	Mr. Senator, tell me. 'Cause you've only mentioned some countries, and I'm not sure this is a finished list. How many countries of the European Union have a similar position as Poland. What kind of group are we? Did they say anything about that? Do you know anything?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u78	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u79	I don't know. I didn't check. Right now... [[It's already known.]] Okay. At the moment, I got a Romanian position, but I didn't have time to read it. I know there's an Italian position before a day or two, but it hasn't been translated into English yet. However, I suppose the Italians are the force that is most pressing for forced displacement of migrants. I would ask you to repeat that question to the government. I'm sorry, I don't have that knowledge.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u80	Thank you very much. No questions. Does the government representative wish to take the floor on the draft opinion presented? Hello, Minister Rafał Rogala. Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Of course, it is not the role of a government representative to address a matter directly related to the resolution itself, but a few questions have been raised here which remain in the sphere of government interest or which have been addressed directly to the government. I'm just gonna check it out. What has already been highlighted by Senator Oremski Forgive the colloquialism, repairing a computer or other complex machine by means of a hammer for the revision of the Dublin Regulation. As the Commission remains in the sphere of crisis thinking and this solution anticipates situations that are unfortunately not crisis-related. Senator Rulewski asked if there was a separation between migrants and asylum seekers. No, because there's no need. We're still talking about the asylum category. In our opinion, among others. Whereas the mixing of these concepts and the mixing of instruments and procedures were one of the reasons why people were attracted to Europe, because the boundaries between the regulations and thus between the responsibilities and powers of each category of person were blurred. Therefore, I'm already simplifying this case. The foreigner thought in categories: why do I need a visa, why do I have to meet the requirements regarding measures or insurance issues, since I can come to the border and say that I am an asylum seeker. And then, in all this procedural struggle, it'll be a year, two years. Only then will I be able to identify my case. And after these two years, I'm going to argue that I'm integrated into society, and there's actually no way that I'm going back to my country of origin. This is the situation and this is the practice among migrants. We need to be aware of that. The allocation mechanism proposed by the European Commission is such a quick response to these events. But notice what's going on. A similar relocation mechanism was proposed a year ago. 160 thousand people to relocate from Greece and Italy. What happened in the meantime? To this day, and more than a year has passed, no more than 6 000 people from 160 thousand were relocated, and not to Poland, but to all countries of the European Union. So it was kind of a disapproval for this solution. Besides, in Italy about 2, 3 months later, please forgive another colloquialism. The candidates meeting the criteria have ended. As of today, the Italians, yes, are in favour of this solution, the Greeks are in favour of this solution. Of course, I do not have the knowledge relating to the parliaments of those countries, but I do have the knowledge resulting from work and working experience from meetings in the European Union. Of course they are in favour of this solution, but they also raise other aspects, such as the issue of effective return policy, because today in Greek camps there are not only Syrians, but above all Afghans, Pakistanis, Bengalezi. These are really problems that should be solved very quickly. And the stay of these people in Greece is the result of such and not another European policy related to this pull factor. So this solution is completely inadequate, there is no additional solution. We propose, and here was the question from this side, from the senator... from the senator... from the senator... [[Rulevski.]] Excuse me, Rulewski. ...in relation to government policy. We propose to restore the logic of thinking in the migration sphere as it should be. So first of all, we are thinking about controlling external borders, but the control of external borders is not on the basis of taking back everyone who reaches that border, only on the basis of verification, which will enable asylum seekers to enter and force people who are not asylum seekers to behave in accordance with the rules that have been assigned to this category of persons, because such rules are, function. We then call for the strengthening of the asylum systems and migration systems of border countries. I return to this unfortunate Greece, a little unfortunate, because I actually agree fully with the senator that the Greeks have been disproportionately affected by the situation of the asylum crisis. But in 2011, the European Court of Human Rights decided to suspend Dublin transfers from other countries to Greece. And this was the beginning of the end because this system de facto ceased to exist and ceased to function. To this day, no one turns back to Greece. Tell me, then, what is the motivation of the Greek administration to receive refugees? They say, "We will accept, they will run away, because, of course, in Greece they do not want to stay, but no one will turn these people back to us, because this solution still works." So the fact that we should restore the possibility of turning back under the Dublin procedure is growing. And this is de. In fact, the real need is de facto the clou functioning of the Dublin Convention and these subsequent Dublin regulations: the possibility of secondary distribution of these people. Poles don't have a problem with that. We have 10,000 proposals under the Dublin procedure, we do not claim that it does not function. The Germans never picked it up either. Because mainly from Germany we have these conclusions under the Dublin procedure that it does not work in relations with Poland. So the logic of thinking, which was at the heart of these documents, must be restored. She wasn't so inconsistent, and it's not like she wasn't responding to crisis needs. We understand the need for ad hoc action, hence in Greece, Macedonia, Slovenia, Italy, the Polish Border Guard, employees of the Office for Foreigners... I was talking about it at the committee meeting. Since February there have been 51 missions of the Office for Foreigners in the Greek office and in the Greek islands, including Italy, Lampedusa, Sicily, where the staff of the Office perform tasks instead of, and it must be made clear, Greek workers and others. We understand the need for support, but first it is necessary to order the State to act and then support it. So that's our logic. And as I said at the very beginning, this is a completely unstoppable instrument that would solve this crisis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u82	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to stay, because I'm sure there'll be questions. At present, senators can report from a place of no longer a minute's query to the government representative present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rulewski was the first person to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u83	Minister, if you agree with your argument of limited trust that this Dublin solution to this allocation is not a good solution, and above all, as Senator Obremski says here, a forward-looking one, this is the question: what is the alternative that would be accepted by most countries? What to do if, however, several European countries Allied and not only allies in the community are now under a burden? Third question. Aren't they gonna use a retort other than, say, protest notes? Is what Senator Oremski wouldn't be able to say right... In addition to this aid, is there any other aid provided for workers at the Greek border? Are budget resources for children's medical assistance? And fourth, last question: why does the Polish government reject the humanitarian proposal of an episcopate which, I think, expresses the feelings of many Christians in Poland to provide some assistance, including creating a corridor for refugees?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u84	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u85	As for the proposal made by Caritas regarding humanitarian corridors, I find no government position in which the government would reject it. I'm only finding a press article that's been standing up for this thesis. However, I do not find a government position in which this proposal would be rejected. Moreover, this article clearly speaks with the words of Bishop Zadarko, the one who presides over the migration committee, that talks are ongoing and we are waiting for them to continue. So if you'll excuse me, I'm not giving it on behalf of the government. 'Cause it's not about that, either. The answer to your question to a wider extent. When it comes to other help, for example, what we've been saying from the very beginning, what we've been doing... Let us remind you of one basic point: first we must put out Fire where it is. We're talking about armed conflicts when we're talking about problems with war refugees. We're talking about this kind of situation, for example. Syria, for example. It is important to help where this assistance is most effective, optimal, but also where people expect it. 12 million PLN earmarked by the Polish government for Polish humanitarian aid, for a specific institution, the Polish Centre for International Aid in Lebanon, for the creation of a humanitarian zone in Lebanon, for the aid of 10,000 people, that is concrete. This assistance includes medical research, social assistance, educational aid... But I would ask you to address this question to a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that deals with this subject. And our support is not only evident, as I said, by the presence of officials, not just the presence of officers, officers of the Border Guard. And we're there to train new employees, and we're there to take over different responsibilities. When it comes to financial gratification for a given country, the Union supports... Let us be honest, the European Union does not have its own money and its own budget, it is the resources of the membership contributions, i.e. from our money as well. So that these countries are supported by the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. I wouldn't want to give you the quota. I remember that the EUR 400 million that were subsidised to Greece in the context of the asylum situation in Greece fell in the discussion on this issue. I would just like to remind you that the programme for the reconstruction of the asylum system, and for some of its elements of re-establishing it, has been in operation in the European Union since 2010. Since 2010, we have had knowledge that things have been bad on Europe's lower abdomen. So this is not just a matter of crisis, as Senator Oremski also mentioned. And that's another line. Excuse me, I've lost all the other questions. Would you please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u86	Please repeat, Senator. [[Head of the Office for Foreigners Rafał Rogal: Have I already answered all...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u87	The point was that there was no evidence in this position that the Dublin IV Convention, as you rightly said at the committee meeting, was a contradiction of the principle of subsidiarity, that, in other words, it was an imposition on Poland by the Union of solutions which violate this principle of subsidiarity. I don't see that evidence. On the other hand, I see the need for cooperation, for example, so that when in the future, do not give God ♪ Don't give me any other strength ♪ Poland will encounter a similar phenomenon, which is not so improbable, and other countries have not reacted in such a way that they do not see the need to provide aid to Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u88	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I remembered the question: what in return? Of course, I'm not going to carry out this proof here, because, forgive me, I'm not entitled to link the subsidiarity principle and this solution. But I can tell you what's in return. More and more countries claim that a return to Dublin II would be a way out of the situation, i.e. a further redistribution of people, but rather secondary rather than computer-based, right next to the border, allowing for a closer to estimate of the number of migrants to be introduced into the European Union and then dealing with the problem. Because that's pretty much what it looks like, no one's setting limits on how much migrants can be introduced into the Union. Please note that on this occasion it is said that the country to which the person was referred is responsible for this migrant for the rest of his life. So if he leaves the Community and re-enters another country, then Poland will be responsible again if it was originally indicated. And if he travels like this, Poland will still be responsible for him. Of course, I do not take into account a number of arguments that should be taken into account, such as the will of a migrant. Because what is Poland supposed to do with a person who doesn't want to come to Poland? And it was also argued at the committee meeting that people addressed to different countries simply appeal to these administrative decisions. Because they don't want to go to France, they don't want to go to Britain, they don't want to go to Ireland, they want to go to Germany, they want to go to Sweden. The Diaspora issue is of great importance here. It is not our fault that we do not have an extensive Syrian, Afghan diaspora, etc. It's hard to blame us for that. But that's the kind of argument This may seem ridiculous: we do not build this type of diaspora. Well, the question is, are we obliged to do this? So we are entering the fumes of absurdity in this discussion, instead of talking about what is very important to the subject. Like I said, it's a comeback, step back. But I don't think there's anything appealing about it, that we find it in solutions that worked, and that worked pretty well, a remedy for these kinds of problems.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question. [[No, thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Excuse me, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u91	Minister, I will repeat the question because the senator did not know this: how many countries share the Polish view, at least the Polish parliament For now, at this stage Is it appropriate to consider this regulation contrary to the principle of subsidiarity? I honestly admit that I listened very carefully to what you said, but that you didn't say anything about it. Because the subject of this regulation, which is to be dealt with, is mostly the relocation of those who are already here. So, of course, there is a lot to be done, e.g. introduce a Polish policy towards foreigners, because we will need them in large numbers And let's talk about it, and you're not saying anything about it. In my view, however, it is also necessary to show solidarity in this difficult situation in which our partners in the European Union are present. Now I would like to ask you what we, as a government, are doing, but as far as this regulation is concerned. It's not about what's going on, it's about what's going to be there, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on? 'Cause that's what the regulation is about. Immigrants. Let's not run sideways. 'Cause it's fun. Let's just talk about what it's about. That's why I'm asking you to answer that question, because I didn't get it from Senator Oremski. Maybe now we'll find out. [[Because it doesn't concern...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u92	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I wasn't talking about Polish politics because there was no question... [[Yes, sir.]] That's why I didn't answer. I can stand here for a long time, believe me. As regards the question of the positions of other countries, I will not talk about the positions of parliaments in relation to the principle of subsidiarity, because I simply do not know them. We've been in touch with Senator Oremski, and we've been talking about it. I know the positions of governments, and in this respect I can say that many countries share this position and I can... Let's just note... I'm not running, believe me. Please pay attention to the stage of work on this document. This is a stage in the work of working groups, so today experts discuss, doubts are expressed by the mouth of experts. The governments of the Baltic countries express e.g. concerns about and opposes such solutions. We have heard about the Visegrad Group, but further, I would like to say that Austria is concerned, France is also concerned, just as I said. They are still experts' voices, because at this point in time This is the stage in which the document is being discussed in the European Union. So do not anticipate that I do not know the positions of government, because they have not yet been formally expressed. What do we do? Yeah, I think I mentioned it. That's specific. It's not for one day, for tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. The PCPM works in Lebanon and does it for those 10,000 people who are there. A Polish humanitarian zone was created, which includes such a group of people. What do we do for people... This is done so that these 10,000 people do not decide to come to Europe. Contrary to the appearances of 3/4 people who are staying in camps of countries neighbouring Syria, it is the answer to this question. He wants to stay in Lebanon, Turkey, Jordan, because he wants to go back to Syria someday. These are the conditions in these camps, the economic situation usually forces them to leave, plus attractive conditions, so pull factors, if they appear. What do we do to deploy... Honestly, I wouldn't talk about some tragic situation in Greece because there are 40,000 people in Greece today. Maybe as an example, I'll just say that comparing August in Poland... [[Not that much...]] But we're talking about relocation, and we want relocation from Greece and Italy, right? If we compare August in Greece and Poland, we will notice that more people have knocked on our borders. On average, taking into account each day They intended to apply for refugee status. So much for statistics. And if we're talking about Italy, most people who come to Italy today, according to the criteria adopted by this regulation, are not eligible... Because we're not talking about migration. And you can't not run away, you can't abstract from the other instruments, because they work on the principle of connected vessels. These people are simply not eligible to benefit from the tool proposed by the Commission set up by the European Union. There's no solution for them. These persons should either be turned back or enter the European Union in accordance with the principle of visa policy. We can, of course, talk about how to solve the issue of economic migrants, what they are called; not every migrant is an economic migrant. This is a somewhat separate subject, although related to this issue. Yes, Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I'm not gonna give you an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u94	Thank you very much. I don't see any more people willing to ask questions. Minister, congratulations on your very good speech. Thank you, sir. [[Head of the Office for Foreigners Rafał Rogala: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to sign up for Senator Marek Pęk. Come on in, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The problem of refugees is, of course, a key problem for the European Union, for Europe as a whole at this point, but I think today is not the time to ask questions about how to solve this problem, because the whole issue we are discussing should first of all have an aspect that we will focus on how key decisions are made in the European Union. Because in the whole sequence concerning the decision of the European Union, as well as in the position of the Polish parliament and the Polish government, we can see many fixed points, these are constantly recurring political and decision-making mechanisms in the European Union. First of all, it is worth noting that the matter has become particularly specific since Chancellor Merkel took a firm stand. It started the whole process, both the actual process of influx of refugees, this great exodus Because it has greatly strengthened him, it has strengthened him, as well as the fact that then the problem began as if the legitimacy of this individual decision by Chancellor Merkel throughout the European Union. This is the first important point. Is this a way to make key decisions? Is it possible to solve and put these problems in such a way? We had a meeting with the French senators a few months ago in the work of the Senate Committee on European Union Affairs, and I said something about the same, which is that there was a policy of facts made and putting everyone else against the wall, because in fact the political decision has already been made, and now it has to be done somehow. And the French senators, who of course have a different position in detail than the current Polish position, agreed with me, they were also placed against the wall and in fact no other alternative, because the process has already begun, decisions have been made. And that's kind of the first thing. This cannot be the case in the European Union. If any matter is to interfere very deeply in life, in politics, in society, in the finances of individual Member States, then decisions must be taken together, they must be taken together. And we have met so many times in key issues in the European Union that they are right about the strongest, the biggest ones, and the rest of them, that I will refer to here as a classic, has the opportunity to sit quietly. We don't agree to that. Answering Senator Augustine to his question, why here... [[I didn't ask.]] But that's what I'm talking about, because you've been asking about this subsidiarity principle. This is how I see it: here the subsidiarity principle has been broken, because no one has been able to express to us how we as a Member State would first like to deal with these matters ourselves. You remember what it was like in previous governments, when the speech of President Jarosław Kaczyński was expressed, then the opposition, that we have a certain philosophy of social, political solidarity, and what a plarum rose then. Some steps were clearly outlined here. Well, there was a huge opposition at the time. And then, when we've seen what this refugee crisis looks like in practice, this position has softened and now it's a little bit different. Even our opponents are no longer so radical about opening up to refugees. When Poland and other countries expressed their skeptical position on this philosophy of helping refugees, this whole asylum policy... Here it has been mentioned several times that this policy does not solve this problem, but escalates it, that there are all kinds of financial mechanisms that really encourage it to come here, to Europe, to come to this mess. Political refugees and social refugees. In fact, it can be said that the European Union, as if in its decisions, does not see that this position is changing, that it is nuanced, that certain processes are taking place in mechanisms that need to be verified. Only here is one philosophy of action still accepted and further in the decisions of the European Union there is a great desire to impose a certain optics. After all, this completely absurd penalty of EUR 250 000 for failing to meet these commitments is a completely unprecedented, disproportionate and very aggressive instrument in order to impose a view on others. To sum up, I think that we today, first of all, when we talk about the fact that the subsidiarity principle has been broken, we should be talking about how to make key decisions, how to talk about key issues in the European Union, in order to develop a broad consensus, because this matter will only be dealt with when this consensus is worked out. There's no way to impose such a central planning. I think it is high time that the political leadership of the European Union should also be involved in other matters. Because this is not only about refugees, but also about economic policy, institutional policy, it has finally noticed that there are other Member States, maybe smaller, maybe not so influential, but also of their own opinion, their specifics, and that the European Union is not such a single coherent body that certain things need to be nuanced, we need to adapt to the mentality, culture, civilization, economic and social opportunities of individual Member States. It used to be so ridiculous about the communist system that it solves the problems it creates. And here I think we should focus on that so that we don't create individual, particular decisions that touch everyone and then force them to make a huge effort, but rather just listen to each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u96	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of the Senators! Because the ladies aren't in the O.R. right now... you're a senator. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue that is being raised today is a huge call for Europeans. The Minister is right. All those who, in 2013, and so before this great influx into Europe, read the book entitled "The Great Influx of Europe." South of Lampedusa, they know how this problem has grown and what it is really about. He is a great splendor and happiness to us that we live in a place on earth that is considered In general, not only in poor countries For the best to live, the best to live in the world. This is how Europe is perceived. Not the United States, not other places, but Europe, the European Union. Of course, there are different lives in different countries in the European Union, but in general... Therefore, it is no wonder that the contemporary pariahs, mostly disinherited by the changing climate, deprived of any means of life, except that there is such a place in the world, are drawn to us from all sides. And that, of course, is a big problem that requires system solutions. This problem has several dimensions that are worth looking at. Everything starts with consciousness and will, so I'll start with the humanitarian and ethical dimension. Today was the opening of the exhibition about our pope, it is the Year of Mercy, we are after World Youth Day, and we are acting as if we are deaf to what the Holy See is saying in this matter to our consciences, to our parish. It kind of doesn't concern us, we don't care very much. We assign several million zlotys to these issues. One of the richest countries in the world Although not so rich in terms of the Union, it allocates amounts to refugees that are not even symbolic. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, no one knows exactly how many people died. This carpet was made in the European Parliament with nearly 18,000 names of those who drowned trying to get to Europe. It's a commitment. Human, humane, ethical commitment. Of course, this issue has a political dimension, both European and national. It seems to me that our stubbornness to this regulation would be worthy of a better cause. This is not worthwhile in political terms, especially from a European point of view. I will move on to the national dimension in a moment, but from a European point of view, we are among countries that do not want to show solidarity at a time when we see the helplessness of rich countries when it comes to accepting this wave of people, which not only because of war, but mainly because of poverty. He's coming to us. So it's not just that our answer, Dear Senators, will be read in terms of subsidiarity, but that it will be read in terms of another more important European principle, which I believe Senator Rulewski asked. The principles of solidarity. And from this point of view, you can have different concerns about how this will be read. It would require some thought. This will be ineffective because since immigrants do not stay in Greece, they would not stay with us. On the other hand, referring to what the Minister said, I would like to say that there was a lot of reason for this. In fact, each of these measures should be taken, only that, since we are talking about the European dimension, let us remember that Poland belongs to those countries that say: absolutely, in general, no more powers of the European Union must be given. Well, then you have to decide what to do. Yes, Europe can only stand up to this situation as a unity as a whole, but it must have tools, powers and money to do so. That's exactly what we're against. It seems to me that with the tools that we have that we have, we've been doing very poorly, and we're going to do very badly. That's what you need to expect. A constructive proposal that would strengthen the Union and give it the tools to act. But Poland does not make such proposals, it merely expresses an option. That's not enough. We have to say that we have to give up a little bit of our decision-making, we have to find resources for it, including those that could come to us, we just have to know how to divide and power and money. Otherwise, we will be indirectly affected by this crisis as those who do not show solidarity to the countries that give us money. Why are they doing this? Because they respect the principles of European solidarity. This must be done not because we have signed something, but because the 500 billion that will come to us are an expression of European solidarity. Of course, an institutional, budget, built-up regulation, but based, like any recipe, on values. Of course, there is also an important national dimension and it cannot be overlooked. It seems to me that such an anti-immigrant attitude expressed at one time so rudely by President Kaczyński That microbes that germs that God knows what will be dragged here... It's the stimulation of anti-immigrant phobias. The senate must not miss such a voice: he that soweth the wind reapeth the storm. Who indulges the fans in Poland will be ashamed of them in Europe. I'm ashamed that Turkish students were beaten in my town because, I don't know, they looked bad. Why were they beaten in our house? Because they're immigrants that we speak ill of, even though they're hardly here. This national dimension is also the needs of the Polish labour market. Because of the ageing population in Poland, only for this reason will about 2.5 million people disappear in the next two decades. [[Time's up.]] We need a policy on migration, but one that will allow these people to assimilate, which will allow them to build their new family nest in Poland, while at the same time bringing us workers and income. That is why I believe that this decision should be prudent. When I really think about costs, I almost don't see them. When I think of losses, I fear them. That is why I believe that we should be more guided by the principle of solidarity than just formally by the principle of subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u98	Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't hide that rarely, but I have a conscience, a conscience that's grown up, that's circulating, that's in my blood. Knowledge that comes from a wide world and, as always, needs a human look at another human being... I'm from the generation of "Solidarity," which has benefited from the refugee mandate. Thousands of people unexpectedly, in one night, had to remain in the West and had to remain there, in this territory, accepted, practically without checking. But let us also mention much more tragic Polish emigration The one whose book Mickiewicz sacrificed. And about the migration that occurred on earth, where Christendom did not grow roots In Iran or India thousands of Polish children were accepted, starved, with lice, without parents. I'm also thinking about moving on to a case that, like, hundreds of years ago... There is a town of Janikovo in my district. The twins were born there. But it was a case that could only be decided in the hands of God only that by then you had to live! because the year these twins, these girls, lived together. And, behold, the former king of Saudi Arabia, who is now dead, reached out to those baptized Catholics. He has appointed for the disbelievers Yes, in this situation for the infidels... He made them cured of this severe illness. But he also built a dialogue center. And I think the other is the most important thing, because the point is to have a dialogue. That's the king's idea. Who came from a fundamental state For us to have a dialogue here, in these areas, is a call and a challenge, if any. And did we, as part of our assistance, Minister, accept into this rich network hospitals, clinics, clinics, even one child? [[Yes.]] The hundreds of children who lost... the children whose Russian bombs Did the Americans take their legs, their hands, or maybe something even more tragic happened... I can't hear you with that kind of help, at least in my district. And I don't hear about... If Senator Rooster did something like that... [[Yes...]] ...I'm very grateful to him because it clears my conscience. But to the point, let's get back to this government performance. Unfortunately, there are a lot of dodges in it. And just like Senator Oremski said at the committee meeting, it's pure politics, which is doing business today. And it's not just about the story that we all know. But maybe this isn't the way we're going through it. But there's no mention of the future either. Yes, indeed, a refugee bomb exploded in the back of Europe. No one knows how far it's gonna get. So far, Germany and Austria have a problem. But imagine that through Austria, a small one, with a population of 90,000 km2 and 9 million, a million refugees marched! Different, because also those with children, scared, but also those who stole things that were different. 'Cause they had to, it was existential. And Austria didn't collapse! And Austria didn't close the line! And it's not true that she didn't take these people. Nor is it true that refugees do not stay in Greece. They stay and stay, just not in that number. It's said here Senator Pop said so. 'Cause it's all because of Merkel. It's such a convenient term. Indeed, this can be accepted in the first phase. It's just that before Merkel I don't want to defend her. It opened its borders too widely in social terms, refugee camps in Lebanon and Turkey and other countries were already overcrowded, already full of refugees. And there was no aid from Poland yet. That bomb must have blown up. It's said... My thoughts about this problem are so scattered. You don't talk about responsibility here. High Izbo! We, as Europe, or almost every one of us, are responsible for what is happening in Syria and Afghanistan. That's where our fighters are. Our soldiers are involved in all this. The problem of Afghanistan has not been resolved and the problem of the civilian population has not been resolved, which is a hostage to all these fights. I don't understand this case and I won't solve it. Besides, this is not the subject of our discussion. I don't know what F-16 fighters are doing in Syria. I've got a lot of reservations. As for their presence in Syria, because fighters don't always end up... The problem is especially where a guerrilla mixes with a child or with a normal family. It's hard to choose a target, and it's harder to separate it all. Europe is responsible for this, although perhaps to a lesser extent than the United States or Soviet Russia. Europe is responsible for this because it has created this problem too. The truth is what Senator Augustine said: Europe suffers because it is the only one in the world that has created a zone of development, solidarity and harmony. Europe is literally respecting the Convention on the Rights of Refugees. Europe is not, so to speak, a group of interests that has the task of fooling the whole world, as some, especially the great powers, do. This is the zone in which we are responsible for the world in which we exist. That's the point we're living for, and that's why we're talking about all of this here. Because if we wanted to create a business group, maybe we should attack Vietnam with the Chinese, and with the Americans we should support the Kurds who don't accept the refugees, the neighbors they used to live with. Or should we go against Lithuania with Belarus? Europe is a zone of freedom She made such a promise to the world. I think there'll be benefits. Senator Augustine said that there is no economic interest here, except for the issue of the population. I'm afraid of something else. As you know, Germany has adopted a large part of the Turkish population, at least 3.5 million people, and has not fallen apart. I know that such a Turk, such a German of Turkish origin, dictates today Poland's economic conditions, tells us what to do and how to do and, above all, tells us how much he will pay for it. And I'm afraid in economic terms... I know Germans a little because I've been watching them and working for them. A million people will soon strengthen the German power and will dictate Poland, and not only Poland, various solutions. In the German labour market the participation of Poles will be reduced, who are not always and not always able to exploit their potential. Such things also need to be taken into account. And we, pretending to accept refugees, actually accept the Ukrainians for work. [[I would like to point out that time is up.]] We use it all politically. I believe that, in the name of balance, in the name of building a solidarity Europe that is profitable for all, we cannot accept the biased opinion of the two committees. It is not the result of taking care of the deep interest of Poland and Europe, but only of one-sided government policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u100	You're welcome... Senator Rooster on what? [[My name was mentioned, and I want to correct it. May I?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u101	Because it was Jasio who moved it. Jackie. [[Voices from the hall: He didn't move.]] [[Voice from the hall: He moved, moved.]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! As a man of Solidarity, I cannot pass by the insinuation of Senator Rulewski that no Islamic person was treated in Poland. Dear Buddy, Dear Senator Rulewski, I remember using names How did my cell phone call from Faraway Afghanistan Major of the Polish Army, doctor, Mr. Osira, and asked: Mr. Senator, will you take a badly wounded Afghan soldier, a royal soldier of the Afghan army, to the rehabilitation center of Pio's name in the Guardians? The decision was clear: yes, Major, please bring this officer. And the officer's been treated for a year... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't bother you. He was treated at the expense of the foundation; the foundation paid for complex operations at the county hospital in Krynica. Mr Augustine, President of Law and Justice, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, has been very supportive of these activities. That's enough, Mr. Senator Rulewski. After a year of this soldier's stay in Poland, children from Afghanistan were taken. This is not enough: there was a spartakiada of people with disabilities, to which children from Afghanistan came, as well as children from Israel. And you know how Jews make love to Arabs. [[I don't know.]] And then the first lady of Kuwait, the queen, said it for the first time, but since you said no one helped, I'll say it helped. That maybe the little Guardian will finally come out of tolerance and one nation will hand it over to another nation. I don't want to bring up any more threads, but there were also children from India who were at the expense of the foundation staying in the tiny Guardians, accepted by the foundation. If we say anything and we want to strike politically, Rulewski, Senator Rulewski, then as people, let us speak true words. It really hurt me, because we really helped this soldier. I'm not hiding that even the brigade generals wanted to distinguish our foundation, but we said we weren't doing it for distinctions, we were doing it from the heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u102	Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor... [[Mr. Marshal, I've been mentioned by name...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please sign up for the discussion. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Please take the floor of Senator Obremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u103	The end of Senator Rulewski's speech was very strong. Unilaterality, non-direction of the interests of Poland, the interests of Europe in the position of... I disagree. For me, the European Union is my home where I have the right to talk about things that I do not like. I am not a citizen who has only to listen, I am a conscious citizen who is also trying to co-form this European Union. Of course, we are in such a situation that we do not have the comfort of making decisions completely, so to speak, black and white. It's all very difficult. The refugee crisis has several different reasons. I'll trade it. First of all, it is a matter of war and earlier wars. We have here as Poles our faults In the Iraqi War, which has disturbed a certain arrangement, a certain balance, and has not built anything new. Let us add a policy of inviting, which was a policy of breaking the principles of the European Union; it was taken by one country and not by the European Union, although it concerned the whole Union. Let's add Turkey, and in some elements of Russia, which is to stimulate refugee streams. This is also an element that works. We are de facto dealing with Europe's helplessness against the impunity of the traffickers who smuggle these people across borders. In 2015, the European Union significantly reduced aid measures for centres in Lebanon and Jordan She forced these people to move to Turkey, then they were moved to Greece. Even though it costs 20 times less to keep a refugee there than it does in Europe. And we have a legal weakness in the European Union. That's what the Minister was talking about earlier. We are dealing with a certain crisis in Europe related to refugees. The problem is that it is primarily a political crisis in very many aspects, and it is being tried to resolve it, moving the problem to the level of the regulation and a certain legal dispute concerning the principle of subsidiarity. And, of course, we use those instruments that are acceptable, but the problem is: He's more political. He requires the approval of the major leaders of the European Union. And I hope that's okay. But as we speak about the law, I have a deep conviction, not the first and not the last time, that in Europe we are instrumentalising the law. Sometimes it's like this, sometimes it's different. And referring to the fact that the European Union, Brussels, rejects the yellow card, for example. on posted workers, believes that the subsidiarity principle was not violated, even though 11 parliaments claimed that it was... Well, of course you can say that 11 parliaments are wrong, Brussels is right. But I would give another example of how the law is treated in Europe. Turkey did not meet the criteria, they said: their law is inadequate, etc. The refugee crisis began and Brussels suddenly started to say: they meet the criteria. Of course, it is all more suspended now, but six months ago, there was a wild delight over obeying the law in Turkey. The Turks themselves tell me: look what it's like, we haven't done anything, we've done nothing and we've already done it because the political context has changed. I would therefore ask you to also look at the way in which legal mechanisms in Europe are being instrumentalised. Now, yes, he's protesting some regulations. Mr. Minister would have to correct me if I was wrong. France, too. She's afraid of standardizing the refugee reception because she thinks she's on the front line, and that's true. And she wants a little bit of other instruments that the French Government is giving their security service. So it's all very diverse internally. And even though the words of Senator Rulewski hurt me, I would like to say that I have always suspected him of some noble concern for those excluded, persecuted, and that is probably the case at the moment. We live in a country that may even have a sensitivity to the disgrace of history and behavior of many at a time when much more lives could be saved. During World War II e.g. The ships with the Jews were turned around and it was de facto condemning these people to death. And we have some fear that by our not being petty, we should not take this type of blame on ourselves. But do we really try to sentence people to death somewhere, even unconsciously? I have the impression that they are not refugees who come from places where there is absolute danger of life, and that if they let them assimilate in those centres where they are staying, which is sometimes even a chance for these people and these societies, it would be as if much cheaper. If we're talking about a humanitarian disaster, I'm the one who's been throwing away all this time... Several countries are bombing Syria. Maybe for a good cause. Maybe it makes us a little help to those who are actually the most persecuted there. But sometimes I get the feeling that the military is not only from bombing, but also from protecting civilians. I would dream of such action by French people, Poles, that indeed from Aleppo or from another Syrian city, maybe not Christians, because it probably won't pass, but save these deer. Have Special Forces try to actually save where there's a direct threat of life. I haven't heard. It's about this kind of action. I know, it's complicated. But I haven't heard of any such action. I know it's complicated, but I haven't heard of any action like this, so these phrases about humanism and so on. I don't think they're quite real. Mr Augustine taught us the words of the Holy See. Well, I have to say, you were once attacked, there was a charge about your attitude, and I stood up for you at the time, because I thought that attack was unworthy. I, too, listen to the Pope's words, and I think that, first of all, it would be good to read them completely, and secondly... Take, for example. a statement concerning the admission of one family to each parish. Please note that on the one hand we are talking about one parish, i.e. a certain dispersion that creates an opportunity for assimilation, and on the other hand we are talking about family, not individuals. During the Pope's visit to Cracow, there was also a statement that every time one has to take into account a situation which is slightly different in every country. Besides, it seems to me that in Papal teaching we confuse the individual dimension with the public dimension. What am I doing for refugees? What are you doing for refugees? Then I'll tell you what I'm doing, and I'll ask Mr. Augustine, but it's in private. The pope talks about keeping our hearts shut and I take it so that perhaps the government side should avoid certain words too, so that it does not seem like a certain closure, because it may not be good for society. But we here must be guided by long-term thinking, not just by a heartbeat. 'Cause who's the politician who wanted to do well, but he didn't do well? A good politician is the one who wants to do well and he's gonna do well. So we need to anticipate the effects of our actions. And the last point of Mr Augustine's speech. Unity does not mean uniformity. This is not a good idea for the European Union, this is not the basis on which the European Union was created. So that there are no accusations that I'm inventing something, let me add that Kissinger has such a view that the unification of Europe should not consist in giving up his own identity. Well, it's the look of a man I think is wise, thinking in terms of long-term politics, of a man who has an outside look. [[Is he a European?]] You called yourself the pope. Neither is the Pope a citizen of the European Union, so I can rely on Kissinger. [[But this is Europe.]] The Vatican is not part of the Union. [[It's not.]] Unless there's something I don't know. Europe has the advantage of a certain diversity and the aim is to be able to interact, co-exist within this diversity. We'll be looking for different solutions. My concern for Europe is that we have been involved in a certain integration race that is rejected by societies in a large part of Europe, which can be seen from the example of all the referendums that have recently been held in the western part of Europe. Such ideas were de facto rejected. My point is that if we want to preserve the European Union, we need to slow down a little bit. We must articulate, also on behalf of our part of Europe, our sensitivity, our way of looking. And it seems to me that such thinking that Brussels has spoken, so the issue is not open to discussion, is something that has alienated European elites, their separation from what is really happening in Europe. This is one of the causes of the crisis that is currently underway. [[Time...]] As I listen to Mr Augustine, I feel the same way when I spoke to the Commissioner recently who was responsible for rejecting the previous yellow card. [[Time's up.]] And she told me, "What's going on? After all, Poland gets the money. Therefore, you should not discuss it at all. I don't agree to this role. I am not a beggar in the European Union. I represent Parliament, I represent you... [[And I can argue, too. You don't allow...]] No, I'll allow it. I'm just saying that I absolutely disagree with you on these things you're talking about. [[Time's up.]] I believe that now Europe is slightly different than it was in 2004 and the situation needs serious discussion. The European crisis with migrants is part of the reflection on this subject. And let's not close our hearts, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u104	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think this is an important discussion. She's getting wider and running a little bit beyond the regulation we're supposed to be discussing, but it's understandable because it's a difficult problem. There are so many aspects: the political aspect It is important, too; the formal legal aspect, in fact, that we should speak mainly in this regard; the ethical aspect of the issue is a lot of comments about it; and above all, the practical aspect of the matter, we need to know how to proceed and how to proceed in the near future. In my opinion, the proposed position of Poland regarding rejection, non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity is highly formalised, because this is how we are comfortable in this case. Even by stretching that rule... Personally, it seems to me that any matter we might be discussing... is precisely the need for subsidiarity. A significant number of refugees are located in countries bordering the Middle East and North Africa They're burdened with it. On the other hand, the rest of the countries are ready or not, depending on what they think, how comfortable they are to participate. So, in general, I think it can be said that here the principle of subsidiarity is not violated. We use different arguments. And so on. Mr. Senator Pop, among others. He criticised the amount of the penalty proposed and it is possible to discuss it. The amount of the penalty is not a contradiction of the principle of subsidiarity. It can be said that this kind of punishment or compensation for not accepting refugees is too high, irrational, inappropriate, etc., but this principle of subsidiarity has little to do with it. Ladies and gentlemen, refugeeism as such, with regard to being itself, is not a formalized process. But we're treating the whole process. The Union too, because it has to do this. In a formalised manner. Real refugees run because they have to, they run as they stand, they run in different states... It is simply necessary to be able to find them among a much wider number of people who are trying to get to Europe and help them. That's the basic thing. In this case, the countries where they are already in need of assistance and which are facing this problem must be helped. We should answer that. Another case I want to raise. The lack of solidarity that we show here on this occasion It's already a very pragmatic point of view. It never pays off. We're so comfortable right now, but we're gonna feel it in a while. I think we're already starting to feel a lack of solidarity with us. This is a very foolish position, except that it is very unethical. There is another aspect of this lack of solidarity that I would like to criticise. He gives a terrible example inside, he's a xenophobic generator. Elements of this we see in different places in the country. We haven't received anyone yet, or actually we're already hostile and we're grinning our teeth, as rarely anyone and rarely anywhere. Shame, and nothing good's gonna happen. Our position should be different. We should accept this small number of refugees and gain experience on this basis - under what conditions? They're integrating, whether they're really gonna get away from here as soon as they get here and so on. You have to learn everything. The problem that awaits us At the moment, he appeared to some extent. It is inevitable in the longer time horizon due to instability, due to poverty, due to drought, due to demography in these countries, or actually demographic shortages in our countries, especially in our country. We should learn this, take advantage of the opportunity, ask for support and financial support in this area, and not possibly expose ourselves to the fact that we will pay EUR 250 000 for an unaccepted refugee or perhaps EUR 50 000 if we negotiate. This approach is fatal and actually nothing good for the future bode well, because it is a long-term issue. We refer here, among others. on the Visegrad Group, Hungary, but at least Hungarians have had and still have several tens of thousands of refugees and, unlike us, at least know what it is. In countries that have had a hard time, e.g. in Austria, actually also What were you talking about, Senator Augustine? It's okay. I know the senator from Vienna, Mr. Stefan Schennach. He prepared this action, and he was very supportive of it in his great and beautiful city, which was certainly not thrilled either with this march or with the prospect of accepting a number of people on the outskirts of the city. So that I think we should review our position. I think that enthusiasm in supporting such a regulation would be a huge exaggeration, but we should not protest it. We could be against certain solutions, e.g. concerning the amount of compensation proposed or other specific mechanisms that we may actually not like and may be wrong But not for principle, and just because we're so comfortable right now. Another time we will be comfortable, but we will no longer have that chance, because we will not be taken seriously and we will not be a partner in Europe, we will not be a partner in the European Union. The future of the European Union Now I'm moving on to more general matters, and there's a question mark, because there's actually all kinds of crises. This one's one of the most important. But if we don't get involved successfully, in a positive way, we just stand by and we don't want to learn anything on this occasion, which is going to happen to us in the future, we're actually going to get very little out of it, and we're going to ruin our future and we're going to put it in a much worse perspective than we are now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to hear the floor, sir. Senator Galin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We stress, of course, that the refugee crisis is multilateral. We emphasize this multilateralism and try to articulate it somehow. This discussion is also a testimony. Listening to those voices that I had the opportunity to hear, I think this is a good discussion because we listen to each other, and I think that's how we learn what's positive. I would therefore like to add a few words to this common teaching and point to the multilaterality of the refugee problem. Well, one of those pages that are definitely crazy for us is that the refugee problem has coincided. I think there is no doubt about that today, and my predecessor in the last phase of his speech also mentioned it with the genuine crisis that the European Union is experiencing. It is also a multilateral crisis From the ideal crisis to the various consequences of the recent economic crisis, which has affected not only Greece, but in fact very many European countries. And from this perspective, The refugees and the crisis of a European Union project It's worth a look. Something that's been me, among other things. I am interested in this reflection that, in fact, the European Union, under the influence of what we are experiencing on refugees, must come to the conclusion that it is time to redefine the basic tasks of the European Union. Undoubtedly, it's been like this so far. And the refugee case showed that too. That those who are most responsible in Europe for various kinds of crises, including war, e.g. in the Middle East, they also take responsibility for trying to resolve them, but then they sort of separate this responsibility, although taken by them, into individual members of the European Union. An example of the Middle East. The involvement of France, whether it is historical in those areas or Germany, in order to avoid solving multilateral crises in some way, led them to engage later in trying to solve refugee problems. To some extent, it's historical. It is also understandable, because, of course, France or the United Kingdom, for example, before Brexit, it may have been more readable and had to be more responsible in Europe for some kind of problems of the present, which are outside European territory because they were involved in these problems. They were colonial powers. Therefore, this sensitivity on the other side, among French, Belgian or British politicians, must be heightened and very well that it is sharpened when we look at it from this perspective the long term of responsibility for acts of which you were accomplices. The problem of the crisis, one of the many problems of the current crisis of the European Union, is that we, too, as a party, i.e. the Polish nation and the Polish state, as well as as as as a country with some historical experience of Central and Eastern Europe, have our natural sensibilities, such as the French, German, British politicians have their authentic sensibilities, which we should respect and honor. In my view, the crisis in the European Union is largely due to the fact that either we did not have time for it, or Western Europe was not interested, or we were unable to safeguard our fundamental interests, so that the other party, the partner in the European Union, understood that we also have our sensibilities, that we also have our historical history, and therefore we also have our primary responsibilities. Here, of course, it is clear that, in principle, subsidiarity cannot be certain of the unbalancedness of this joint participation in recognizing each other about their own genuine political sensitivities, including economic sensitivities, concerning the outside world outside Europe. If we repeat stubbornly that during many years we have accepted nearly 900 thousand Ukrainians into Poland, it is not only to say... [[Voice from the room: Work.]] Yeah, to work. That's what I'm talking about. We are talking about this not only to compare it with Angela Merkel's action, because she also wanted to accept 1 million de facto refugees in order to strengthen the German economy, but also because the starting point is different sensitivities, which make for us this very European side and what is happening beyond the eastern border of Poland, not only clearer, but also very clearly worthy of support. Not to mention the Poles in Kazakhstan. This must also apply to other arguments that we make every time and we will make them in the name of the principle of subsidiarity. The point is that there is no dictation of one sensitivity in Europe, but there is a dictation of many European sensibilities, which have its basis in history, to be more... more or less concerned with global issues. And it's natural. It doesn't fit into the concept of selfishness. This is part of the concept of a clear view of the subsidiarity principle between equal partners. If we want to introduce this equality in the European Union Because I don't want to say that I am strengthening, because this equality obviously wasn't, that's one of the reasons. the crisis in the European Union that the dictators of the Union did not want to acknowledge that there is a principle of equality, but now they are being forced to do so, even by the Visegrad Group. The real concept of subsidiarity will then be strengthened. Again, I do not want to say that this should be seen in terms of selfishness, but in terms of what we call various sensibilities. The Polish people, regardless of whether they like it or not It is evidently a nation strongly connected with Christianity, with Catholicism. And we will emphasize this as Poles, not because someone likes it or doesn't like it, just because it results from our inner sensitivity, that is, this sovereign co-player in the European Union. Yes, helping Catholics, for Christians in that area is our natural challenge. And now we have to tell ourselves that the issue of refugees for Poland and Poles should be multidimensional, it should be complicated and it should create tension, moral tension in all of us. I hope that Senator Rulewski, with his sensitivity, will also understand my conservative sensitivity, not the more social-liberal sensitivity you represent. But I accept your sensitivity as authentic, and please accept my conservative sensitivity as authentic as well. Namely, this sensitivity is that if we are to be authentic in this helping, then we will, not out of selfishness, care and want to do everything. As it does to the Church in Necessity, so that where we as Poles and Poland believe that good must be done, good must be done, that is, above all, where there is a source of conflict. And it is known that the source of the conflict... is that there is peace in the Middle East. And now I'm entering the third level of this view of refugee problems. In short, you can't be a jerk in politics, you can't be a loser, you can't not understand what's going on in the world. See how many people are not interested in having peace there. We can't pretend we don't see reality. Like we can say to each other, for example. Polish side, I think, is clearly honest in what he tells his partner in the East, that is Ukraine... We are not interested in the tension between Ukraine and Russia, and there is a war that lasts forever. While we may be potentially suspected of being interested for some reason, there is no evidence in international politics that we can be accused of doing so. This we can accuse the Germans, and France, and many powers, above all, non-European, with Russia at the head, because it is evident today that she is articulating that in the Middle East no one... no one, I'm sorry, is obviously too far-reaching... But there are no parties who would be interested to have peace there ever. Well, maybe that's what we should do. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. And one last thing. I'm gonna go back to this anxiety and moral tension. Well, as senators here in this House, we should undoubtedly call for what Senator Oremski mentioned, i.e. to ask yourself a question... The multidimensionality of the refugee problem in Poland and Europe is that each of us should ask ourselves: what have you done for the needy? Start by answering that question, and then get smarter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Rulewski for the second time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The limitation of 5 minutes does not allow the argument that the world built on lies and hypocrisy actually loses, and the world built on certain values, even if not fully revealed by Providence and invented by man, wins. The example of Europe, not only of Europe, but also of many areas on our land, points to this dependence. It's time to make amends. Senator Rooster, I know you're a living, honest man, but here you're saying the wrong thing. I wasn't insinuating anything, I even said you cleared part of my conscience. [[Thank you.]] But you proved that you were only helping allies, and I was telling... allies, soldiers who fought Polish soldiers, invaders, side by side in Afghanistan. [[What do you say?]] [[What are we talking about here?]] We're occupying Afghanistan. We don't have a UN mandate. I also heard something about children from India. Once again, you've cleared my conscience. It is worse for a man of vast knowledge, fleeing to abstract speculation, to intellectual discourses. Senator Oremski, who is undoubtedly a supporter of such a position, honored us with this presentation. In one of his speeches... I'm not saying all your words were wrong. ... You've noticed that in such camps you can eventually rush some kind of life. I'm not literally quoting it. That you can live there and help there. That's what you said. You lived in a camp like this, in a socialist camp. I experienced it when I saw the wires on the Czech border; there were mines and electricity. We all wanted to run away. - Well, maybe not all of them. It's not that horrible of a camp. For 40 and 50 years, 3.5 million Palestinians have been in camps with no barbed wire. These people can emigrate, they can go anywhere they want. But that's not the point. They're hurting. Because how are they supposed to build their lives for today and tomorrow? The point is what is politically important to us, what is the problem for the world. Being in camps is no longer a problem for those who are in these camps or their neighbors. The same is true of refugees in camps in Lebanon, Greece or Germany. This is a real threat to peace not only internal but also worldly. I'm not talking about the subcultures that form there anymore, and I'm just gonna say I'm talking about terrorism. Therefore, setting up camps is not the way to solve the problem. On the contrary: this is building another bomb. There were a number of comments in your speech that led us to believe that the Union, this diabolical force, is imposing something on us. I'm so sorry. Perhaps our officials we're posting there, and the parliamentarians, and this Tusk, and the ambassadors who are sitting there, and the NGOs... I'm sure Wrocław has a delegation there. This is the diabolical force that's imposing something on us. I'm protesting it. And if that's the case, I think I'm gonna resign because that means we're not capable of being in the community. Unfortunately, I also have to say... Senator Żaryn used my name. Historian, researcher, intellectual power says there are different sensibilities His is conservative and my social-liberal. [[Left.]] Mr. Senator! Sensitivity, ethics, morality in all of us here in Europe is the same Christian. She's Christian because that's what we've been taught. And did we? Is that what we want or don't want... [[Yes, sir. Bravo!]] [[Applause]] ...we need it with the benefit of inventory, with science, with signs, oh, with the one who hangs here, to accept. And this teaching comes from the fact that Christ was also a refugee. And he was accepted in the inn by others, unprepared... There was no place for him... [[But they threw him out, too.]] So, when we say that Europe should be Christian, let us make it Christian. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u110	Thank you very much. [[They didn't take him either.]] Senator Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear guests! Much needs to be corrected, but first of all, we must thank Prime Minister Beata Szydło and her government for adopting such a policy on immigrants. Many have said, including Senator Augustyn, that Mr Kaczyński was against the European Union. I think we're listening to different media. I heard him say clearly... [[That's for sure.]] I'm sorry. Yes, I listen to Radio Maryja, Television Trwam, I don't listen to propaganda which with money... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[And in the Network.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry. As far as this matter is concerned, he was talking about Europe of nations. Mr. Senator, too... I am delighted that my friend, a colleague, John Rulewski, began to speak about the Gospel, to speak about Christ. For me, Dear Lords, the authority that was clearly speaking on this subject was Saint John Paul. II. When Poland entered the European Union, he made it clear about Europe's homelands. Yes, I am for Europe, I am for Europe of homelands. What was that supposed to be? He made it clear that every nation like Poland Now it's the thousand fiftyth anniversary of the baptism of Poland. It has the right to culture, to money. Many of you refer to the Pope. Yes, His Holiness Francis, as you rightly said, Senator Oremski, called for one family to be accepted. [[Exactly.]] I'm definitely also... I value Senator Rulewski for his sensitivity, for his great sensitivity, but for the first time I hear that Poland was and is a invader in Afghanistan. I always knew that our soldiers fought terrorism, that they fought in Afghanistan to overthrow terrorists. And it really is necessary, Janek Dear, to appreciate that the Polish soldier fought there. Next case. We have a story, too. Remember that during the Warsaw Uprising, young boys gave their lives for their beloved homeland. With immigrants, as we all hear, jihadists enter Europe as well. The explosions in Nice, a huge tragedy, a huge number of young people are dying, and so is Brussels. They checked that they all came in with refugees, with immigrants. Poland, too, can argue here. They treat it as a transitional state. They mean, Dear Lords, to go to Germany and get social... Next case, Mr and Mrs Dear. After all, Chancellor Merkel wanted to use the same maneuver as it was used after the war. Then the Turks were accepted, and now they wanted to welcome people from the Middle East to actually have a workforce. After all, it was only done for this, and it turned out, as you can see... Assault on a train with an axe in its hand or other assassins who were preparing for the assassination. Ladies and gentlemen, I value Senator Rulewski for actually caring for everyone. We can say what we want, but he cares about everyone. And here, in this debate, I would propose not to use populism, and actually look at these people and appreciate what the Visegrad Group wants to do. It's not like that. Let's say it. There is a huge ideological war going on, and there is no Europe without Christianity. There is no Europe without Christianity! And now there's a huge ideological war going on. And, Mr and Mrs Dear, let us look at it this way and let us say with an open text: if the Union is not reformed, then the Union will fall apart whether we want it or not. Therefore, Mr and Mrs Dear, I will say this: here you have already said a lot, Professor Żaryn, Senator Oremski, so that there is nothing to draw on this subject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. You're Marshal Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u113	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! When it comes to refugees, they are used very often. - Sometimes it's right. Also great words, referring to the gospel, to moral principles. It's probably needed, and for some people it's very necessary. But I'd like to bring it to a more practical level. Well, the exodus to Europe, which started a few years ago, began. I was a delegate at the time, a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and it was the refugee committee, and we were dealing with this topic at the time. Then the first expeditions through the Mediterranean to Italy took place, i.e. the first sea tragedies, etc. Well, first of all, it has to be said that the cause of this exodus was mainly the consequences, on the one hand, to dismantle Iraq as a result of war, on the other hand. The Arab Spring. And now that it's Iraq, you can say that we've all been involved. So do we, Poland too So you can't just separate us from the Western countries. Let's be clear: I'm not criticizing it right now, I'm not saying it was wrong, it was a mistake, etc. I'm saying that we were there with the others, and the consequences of that are still going on and going on. And when it comes to Arab spring, it was a rumble of the inhabitants of those countries who simply had enough dictatorial rule. And, of course, it met with resistance, counterattack. In some cases, it even threatened genocide, for example. Libya. Therefore, the support that has come from Europe cannot be considered, as it is often said, to arouse this conflict. And you can't French, British, because it's mostly about these countries. Or to blame the Germans for helping those who sought to overthrow Gaddafi's rule. So we're just dealing with something historically extremely important, namely some attempt to remodel changes in the Arab world, which is the Arab world in terms of, let's say, civilization. This is what I'm gonna say. "To a large extent, it is still lagging behind the developed democratic world. But of course, people who live there are often open people, they see what's happening, and they try to change it. Well, now that it's done, since this exodus has begun... And the exodus began primarily to two countries, to Italy and to Greece. There were hundreds of thousands of people there. And now the question is, what, then, in a situation like this... And I also want to say that in this first phase, they were refugees. They were undoubtedly refugees. It was later that those who were economic migrants also began to join them. And now the question is: what should Europe, the European Union, do in such a situation, what should Poland do? Well, she should show some support to these countries. After all, let's be honest with ourselves that we are discussing refugees of 7 or 9 thousand people for a 38 million-dollar country, and we have dealt with hundreds of thousands of people in the country like Italy, a little bigger than ours and richer, and in a country like Greece, smaller than ours and, let's say, without exaggeration to the rich. Therefore, it was necessary to prove that this aid should have been found. Poland has declared that a certain amount of people will accept a relatively modest amount, which is spread over the years. Not much, then, when the rule of law and justice came, we heard that the government wasn't backing down, but he wanted it not to be random. It was said that e.g. They will go to these camps in Greece or Lebanon or elsewhere, they will simply talk to these people, whether they want to come here, whether they want to stay here, whether they want to study, etc., and so on, and they will simply go to those whom they will be sure they are refugees. There's nothing going on in this case. There's no such move. Instead, we are simply entering into a violent conflict with the other countries that accept, accept and accept these refugees. And I ask you, why? Didn't it make sense to start this procedure, accept these hundreds of refugees, place them in different places, as Senator Wach said here, see what it's just like to eat? 'Cause one more time. Please don't confuse them with the Ukrainians. Unfortunately, both the Prime Minister and President Kaczyński are promoting this, and they are promoting it publicly, also in the public dialogue with partners from the European Union, that after all Poland has adopted a million Ukrainians... refugees from Ukraine. Well, I'd suggest you don't really duplicate it. Well, what refugees? Refugees are those who are in institutions that need to be maintained, who need to be provided with certain social conditions, then educated, sought work, etc., etc. They're refugees. We almost don't have refugees like that. Although we used to. For I will remind you that as the Chechens fled from Chechnya, when the war was quite terrible there, we accepted them. [[Muslims.]] Muslims, yes, yes. [[And the Greeks.]] And one of them is even a Polish sports hero, isn't it? I'm talking about martial arts here. So we've been through this a while, we're not all that green. [[Even the Polish Tatars don't want them.]] There are Polish Tatars... But that's... [[But they don't want them.]] No, no, but... well, I don't know if they want to or not... [[They don't want to.]] I don't know if they want it or not, that's your opinion. But governments decide in the interests of the whole country. There's always people who don't like things. Well, that's a gesture on our part, because it's just a gesture. And I'm still trying to get you to do that. It sets us in a completely different way in the internal discussion in the European Union. We have the right to say that we cannot accept many refugees for two reasons: firstly, we are not a rich country, secondly, we are not logistically prepared for this. There are many Western European countries that have accepted refugees for years and have been prepared for this, have structures, headquarters, logistics, people who do this. [[They're rich.]] We have it in a modest dimension. That's why, of course, we have arguments that they can't be masses of people. But this gesture is absolutely necessary because it will show that we are solidarity with other countries, but therefore we also require some respect for our limitations in this respect. And this option, which we have recently adopted here on this issue, which is a harsh option, simply no refugees, where Europe is facing this problem, is the refusal of solidarity. And certainly the benefits. It's not gonna bring us back. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u114	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Originally I did not intend to speak because I am not a special expert in European law, rather Polish constitutional law, but not only. I will return to this topic, which was earlier, because Mr. Marshal Borowski, knowingly, separated the issue of Christian motivation, focusing on others, also very important problems with which he identifies himself. I have a special title because we agreed with Mrs. Shark that I would act on a common behalf. We come from the diocese where Bishop Krzysztof Zadarko is the bishop, today called by the Minister, because he is a pastor for the episcopate of refugees, immigrants. These threads, I would say, of the Christian attitude that have been discussed here, seem to me as a man of the Catholic seemingly indifferent. It doesn't matter. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is Senator Żaryn saying that it's practically out of our hands, it's about those who caused this conflict, let them handle it. However, I remind you that Pope Francis did not disable Poland. This is what he was saying in Poland, for example: if one family in the parish... And I don't think that's an overinterpretation of Pope Francis' words. If you count the number of parishes with the average number of families, I think we're even beyond that limit. [[Voice from the room: Grubo.]] It's thick. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not... [[Give an example.]] Yes, of course. There was talk of the Eastern lung, about what John Paul II said, that we should shape Europe, that without the other lung there is no full Europe. That's it. That's it. That's it. But this also involves an example of a Christian attitude. A typical example of a Christian attitude for every Catholic is Samaritan's attitude. An enemy who helped in a selfless way. That's an example. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been mentioned as well. After all, Europe has varied this. The verification of these figures is evident in relation to the possibilities of the country, the population, the wealth, etc. It is not that these issues are not taken into account. I'm thinking, everybody. But this is, as we say, about solidarity, and even about trying, as Pope Francis says, a certain assimilation of people. 'Cause one parish... Even if every other parish accepted, these refugees would have the chance to assimilate, undoubtedly, and then we could see what was already mentioned here, Senator Wach spoke about this, how they actually assimilate. etc. So that I don't want to use strong words to describe such an attitude, but for me, the matter is clear at the moment, for me the matter is clear and simple. We're ignoring it right now. I am talking about the parliamentary majority, led by Nowogrodzka, what Europe is imposing on us. No one can impose anything on us. And that's the whole philosophy. Well, we need to get away from this philosophy, ladies and gentlemen, from this insane imperative. After all, it is not that we are listening in some heartless way to a Europe which imposes on us a completely reprehensible morally contrary to our interests, with human solidarity, I no longer say: European. Let's think about it, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u117	Three small notes. Senator Borowski noted that a certain revolutionary ferment plus the unresolved or unwavering war situations in the Arab countries are causing this crisis. I take it that it is even wider, that is that migration movements are such a secondary redistribution of income differences in people's awareness of how you live in Europe. I was talking about the fact that this demographic surplus of Black Africa is going to knock on the European door at some point, so this is something that's going to be... Therefore, it must be said that this is not a gesture, because this regulation will work in the future, i.e. the next waves of refugees according to a computer algorithm will distribute amounts... So it's not like it's a $6,000 issue. If we're talking about a gesture... in order to be able to make a gesture, in this particular case, the regulation would have to fail to enter into force. The separate thing is whether it's politically that we do it or not. I'm sorry that's how I've been understood. No, I don't take it that being in a camp is a good thing, but rather I said that in camps in Jordan and Lebanon More in Jordan than in Lebanon, due to the surface There is a possibility of easier assimilation, for many reasons, also financial. And there were some plans and actions of the Polish government concerning supporting families by emancipation, i.e. by buying apartments, etc., etc. I'm sure we need to get these people out of the camps. A separate thing is these forty-year-old camps. It's not even 40 anymore. - but 70-year-old camps of Palestinian refugees. Okay, I'm the only one who takes it so far that this is a classic example of something completely different. Not that this temporary situation lasts forever, but that in this case the Arab countries used Palestinians as part of the game with Israel, which has no right to exist, therefore this is a more complicated thing. But I absolutely believe that at some point, we need to help make these camps cease to exist. Besides, those who come to Europe on refugee papers also go to camps in the first phase, and in all the regulations that are adopted, there are a lot of clauses that limit their freedom, for example. the question of checking in every now and then, which is supposed to ensure that if they send someone to Lapland, he doesn't go to Germany, he will only check in at the Rovaniemi police station, or if they send someone to Poland, in Bieszczady, he will check in with Ustrzyki. These are the kind of chicanes that are used in this phase of camping not only in Libya and Jordan, but also in Europe. So much for the explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Bonkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I find it hypocritical because here you are speaking evangelically that Christians etc. To me, in your mouths, that sounds very unbelievable. Nowhere in the Gospel does it say that a Christian is to be a loser. Senator Zientarski is talking about assimilation. What are you guys talking about? Europe has been trying to pursue this multi-culti and assimilation policy for 50 years. They'll never assimilate, not even religion lets them. I would like to point out to you that we have Muslims: Polish Tatars. They're the only ones who've assimilated and they're actually protesting because they don't want these orthodox Muslims here. They're not refugees to me, they're invaders to me. Ladies and gentlemen, why aren't rich countries like Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates supporting them? After all, they have a lot of money, they can support these centers. We Poles have no responsibility to them, it was Europe that brought them here after the war for demographic reasons, needed cheap labour. Now Europe itself sees that this multi-culti policy has gone bankrupt. Now what? We're supposed to take on the problems we didn't cause? We are a country for achievements, we are a country of cultural unity and we cannot bring foreign cultural nations here. At the same time, we must remember what is happening in the East. There may be a situation where millions of real refugees from Ukraine, refugees who are closer to us culturally, will arrive in a short time. I don't think we can open up to foreign nations culturally.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u120	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to say that I support the content of this opinion as much as possible. I think this is a very good document, it is a document that is needed, because at the moment, as a result of the mistakes made by some European countries, including the leading ones, I think, above all, of Germany and Mrs Merkel, we are dealing with a situation of immigration crisis, which has become a very serious challenge for Europe. Instead of looking for a rational solution to this issue, and not only at national level but also at regional or pan-European level, it is trying to introduce a mandatory mechanism, a mechanism against which the previous government, Mrs. Ewa Kopacz, also expressed doubts and opposition. It is a mechanism that goes far beyond these treaties and commitments which the Polish party has signed, first of all. Secondly, we cannot only talk about the principle of solidarity here, because alongside the principle of solidarity is the principle of subsidiarity, there is a whole catalogue of principles which the European Union is guided by. In this situation, it is not possible to refer only to one principle, the principle of solidarity, in an algorithmic quotation when it comes to immigrants who are to be deployed in a given country. In addition, if the government of a country had not decided to do so for some reason, it would have been punished. And it's an even harmful solution. Regarding the speeches that have been made here, I will remind you that I was recently in Wielkopolska in the vicinity of Śrem. It's a famous story. I'm addressing Senator Zientarski. The parish community invited a family of immigrants. They gave them everything, they got them jobs, they gave them lodgings, household appliances, all of them together, solidly. And one beautiful day it turned out that this family left, didn't say goodbye to anyone, didn't thank her because she was really interested in not staying in Poland, but going to the German state. [[But what's wrong with that? Everyone wants to live better.]] It shows... [[It's partially showing.]] ...a mechanism that... [[Poland is to be Polish.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...it's just used. Very good. I'm very happy for you. Caritas Poland is talking about humanitarian corridors. That's a very good solution. [[Exactly.]] You have to think about it. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] I believe that it is absolutely important not to be indifferent to the fate of people who, as a result of the war, have lost ground at all in terms of not only physical security but also any conditions for any life; I am talking about a material dimension. However, this requires a more thoughtful policy, not one that is convenient for some reason. [[We're waiting.]] We are dealing with a certain German cynicism here. It is no secret that in Germany in the coming years a demographic hole will cause them to need... Already, they need about 1.5 million people to work and much more in the long run. And for this reason Chancellor Merkel said famous words that the Germans would be willing to accept immigrants, who in German they format on good Germans, good, solid workers. It turns out that for various reasons, civilizational, cultural, linguistic, because of various barriers, including religious issues, it is not such a simple process that can, even with German pedantria and accuracy, be carried out on such a scale. This directly caused the crisis. The German State likes to rely on the principle of solidarity, but already in the case of energy policy, Nord Stream II, not even to mention Nord Stream I, which already exists. The principle of solidarity does not exist. That is why I am saying that we are dealing with some hypocrisy and cynicism that are sold to the public. It is very good that we, as Parliament of the Republic of Poland and as Senate, accept an opinion which shows that we are not opposed to seeking mechanisms to resolve this crisis, at a supra-regional or pan-European level, but not this way. This mechanism should be completely different. First of all, it should not fall within the scope which does not fall within the competence of the European authorities. However, this cannot be a mandatory mechanism. Let me remind you once again that Mrs. Ewa Kopacz's government also put a veto on the mandatory mechanism. So I don't understand the discussion that's going on in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u122	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see any more requests for discussion. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft opinion. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 261 and the committee's report in print No 261 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report from the 3rd committee on the draft law amending the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. In this House, we have dealt with this issue in the spring of this year. We were the initiators of the law, which then, through the Sejm, came back to us and on 1 April became the law in force in Poland. Already during the discussion there were voices that this law was in some sense incomplete, that is, it does not cover, I would say, all the situations in which communism could be promoted. Even then, Senator Robert Mamotov, who was the applicant of the mother's law, committed himself to submitting an appropriate complementary project. And those words became flesh. The project was submitted in July this year. This project has received over 20 opinions from various institutions, including the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Attorney General. In addition, all voivods presented their opinions. Most of the comments in these opinions are reflected in the project that we are currently working on, i.e. the one contained in print No 261 S. These comments were of different natures. Perhaps later, during the discussion we will deal with them in more detail. In general, they concerned both the procedure and the subject-matter, the cost issues. As I said, most of them were included in this project. The joint committees met for the first time on 4 October. At this meeting, the printing project No 261 was extended to include procedural rules, clarification. The main idea remained the same. At this meeting, the committee had a rather interesting, interesting and quite long discussion, during which several proposals for amendments were tabled. We found that we were unable to make these amendments at this meeting, let's call it colloquially, rewrite it, so the sitting was adjourned. These amendments were collected and ordered by the Legislative Bureau, and the follow-up was held on 18 October, which is yesterday. All the amendments have been worked out, some of them have been accepted, some of them rejected. The result of this work is printing No 261 S. So much for the history of this case. Now I'm going to talk about what's in this print. The main objective of the novel is the introduction to the catalogue of structures, which should not affect the legal situation, should not promote communism and other totalitarian systems, monuments. In order to do this in a way, I would call it, in accordance with the principles of legislation, the previous content, which was de facto the whole law, was separated, transferred to a separate chapter. At the moment, the old part of the law is in chapter one, and the issues concerning monuments or commemorations in general are included in chapter two. This is yet to be done by the transitional provisions of the old law, which are now in chapter three. So that at the moment the systematics is slightly different from the original law, in the mother's law. What is included in chapter 2? So basically chop up these new rules, these new provisions. First of all, the ban on the promotion of communism and totalitarian systems by monuments. It so happens that we entered an unknown area, terra incognita, because there is no legal definition of a monument in Polish legislation. And now you could be tempted either to try to build that definition, or to point out what is a monument. And that's why, among other things. one of the provisions of the law, specifically the provision of the article. 5a, indicates exactly what is meant by the monument. So there are other signs added, as it is said popularly, the concepts of the monument. In addition, in this provision, Article. 5a, of course, in addition to the ban on the promotion of totalitarian systems, there is a catalogue, I would call it, exemptions. So we have an indication of what is a monument, and besides, which monuments are excluded from the act. Those monuments which are not publicised are specifically excluded from the act. It's obvious here. We must not enter into private life. Those that are located within graveyards or other resting places. There were differences of opinion, whether they were only war cemeteries and resting places, where care is generally regulated by international agreements, or generally cemeteries and resting places. He's won the view... In order not to expose ourselves to repercussions from the countries with which we have signed agreements, but also to ensure that this law is actually applied, we exclude these commemorations from its actions, the monuments that are within the cemeteries and other resting places. Also these memorials, these monuments, which are exposed to the public, but not to glorify, not to promote totalitarian systems. So that's like, uh... artistic, collectibles, museums, etc. And, the last record of the exclusion, the monuments that are entered in the register of monuments. New, added article. 5b specifies the procedure for removing these monuments from physical space. I'll remind you that the bill has only dealt with names so far. In the case of names, it is so much simpler that it is generally simply a matter of changing the resolution of the commune council or adopting a new resolution, or finally issuing a replacement order, which causes little interference into the physical, external world. In the case of a monument, you simply have to remove this monument physically. Therefore, a new procedure must be developed. The procedure is quite simple, but effective. The decision to remove such a monument Not about demolition, but more broadly, the voivodship issues about removal. The right local voivode. Of course, he cannot give it away by using his own discernment. He's giving it after a positive opinion. In this sense, it is positive that it confirms that the commemoration or monument in question violates the provisions of the Act. So the decision is made by the voivode after the positive opinion of the Institute of National Remembrance. It is also introduced into the bill, what some voivods have called for, appeal mode. The voivodeship will be able to appeal to the Minister responsible for cultural affairs and the protection of national heritage. This provision of the article. 5b concerns commemorations and monuments which will arise or could arise after the entry into force of the Act. And for such commemorations we will apply a simple rule: whoever dares to put up a polish monument that violates Polish law will have to pay for its demolition. Another point is the transitional provision, which is about in a moment, about what the main majority of these commemorations will of course be about. That are already standing in the territory of the Polish State. So much for the monuments. As I say, attached to this... There is a fairly large list of other objects or forms of expression, which are, so to speak, aligned with monuments, from mounds to inscriptions, to signs. So much for fundamental issues, those which were in the original draft and which constitute the basic draft of this law. In addition, during the discussion on the law, the drafting of the mother's law also voiced that matters should also be dealt with, generally speaking, by patrons, i.e. giving a name. It is the name that promotes communism, or another totalitarian system, e.g. schools, hospitals, in general any organizational units that depend on local government units. In most cases, we're no longer dealing with... I mean, we're not dealing with cases like this right now, these names aren't broadcast anymore. Although they also happen, at least one case, from the territory of my province, I know personally. However, we are in a certain state. And what about those names? Well, the original law, the mother law didn't include them. In short, it simply did not include the names of the institutions. And that's why in the first part that was separated from this... I mean, in the first part of the current bill, which means... The mother's law is also included in the amendment discussed here in the provisions concerning the names of institutions, namely organisational units, and, as we forgot earlier, names, in short, housing estates. This is generally about the municipalities' support units. Because there are such cases that the housing estate is an auxiliary unit of the municipality, it is incompatible with our intentions, contrary to the intentions of this law, and cannot be called under the name of the street or the name of the object. In fact, there are also cases where the estate has street status. Here it's kind of a two-way... But most of the settlements are not treated as streets in terms of address, but as real settlements, in the common sense of the word, they are secondaryly divided into streets. And so that the law is complete and coherent so that no later amendments are made, the names of the auxiliary units of municipalities and organisational units are also taken into account. There is also a provision that clarifies what should be treated as an organisational unit. And a matter of order. The Act preserved the provisions on the basis of which the voivode, in the supervision mode, but also the local government unit could consult the Council for the Protection of Memory of Walk and Martyrdom. This advice, as you may remember, was incorporated into the IPN structure by us, so the above provisions had to be removed from the Act. So that part two was discussed, part one was discussed, and the introductory provisions were still being discussed. The provision introducing the mother's law was, as the third chapter, in the old version. But there are also provisions introducing an amendment. Those are the rules that are being used as an article. You will find 2 and 3 in the report. Of course, they won't go directly into the mother's bill. These will be the provisions implementing the amendment itself. And in these provisions, we give the same deadlines to remove illegal names of organizational units and auxiliary units of municipalities and, above all, to remove monuments, physical removal of monuments from space, i.e. 12 months for municipalities, because this will generally be the owner of the site. For other landowners or perpetual users, if any. In case this is not done, there are 3 months for the operation of the voivodship. So that these are the same dates, the same transitional provisions as were in the mother's bill. But, of course, these terms will have been valid since the amendment came into force. And there was, among the transitional provisions, a record that if the landlord or the perpetual user destroys the monument We're only talking about monuments, about the physical removal of the monument. And, of course, if he didn't participate in it, that is, he wasn't. the investor nor gave consent to its setting, in which case the cost of demolition will be reimbursed by the State Treasury. It's kind of an incentive. You take responsibility for these monuments, monuments, tables, etc., which were placed when the local government had not yet been present. In general, they were set up long ago, in the 1960s and 1970s, and local governments took over their land with the benefit of inventory, so why should they pay for it? But of course the condition is that the local government In general, it will be the commune of the same monuments that will be removed. And then there's just going to be a refund. The Act is to enter into force 3 months from the date of the announcement. So much for my report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u124	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Robert Mammothov to present his position. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a request for the senator to explain in detail the mechanism for financing this demolition, disposal... or whatever we can determine. [[Deleted.]] Yeah, it's about removing this kind of object. How will this work in practice? As I recall, in the committee meeting, it triggered the biggest discussion. I'm sure the subject will still be going through, so I'd like the senator to explain how this mechanism looks like in the light of the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u126	Maybe I'll quote that recipe and then explain it. Art. 3 of the Law is physically not included in the Law of the Mother, but of course it will be in the Polish legal system. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 shall be the following: in the case of performance of the obligation referred to in paragraph. 1, the costs of removing the monument shall be reimbursed by the State Treasury from the State budget, the voivode, represented by the competent local voivode, if the owner or user of the perpetual property on which the monument is located did not participate in the procedure of erecting this monument. I'll explain it in simple terms. Suppose the commemoration stands in the commune, because in most cases it will be a situation of this kind. The memorial was erected in the 1960s or 1970s, on the 20th or 30th anniversary of the Polish People's Republic. And then what? The municipality wants to remove this memorial, so it does it at its own expense, and it has 12 months to do so. That's what the mouth's talking about. 1. Removes this commemoration and then... Well, he can strip them off. There is talk of being removed from the public view, but it will generally involve demolition, because these commemorations do not have the form to be moved entirely. Well, the commune removes this memorial. And then what? She is applying to the voivode for refinancing because she was not an investor, did not take part in the position of this commemoration, and removed them in the manner described in the Act. And this is case one. There could also be a second case. Well, let's assume that this happened, that the commune dared to present a commemoration in honor of the soldiers of the Soviet army in the 1990s. Well, let's say she did it 10 or 15 years ago, so she participated in the investment process and kind of hurt herself. In this situation, unfortunately, this commemoration must be removed at its own expense. And there's the third case. Despite the provisions of the Act, we are leaving here from the transitional provisions and entering into the material provisions of the Law, says that he wants to make a commemoration with a great red star symbolizing the Soviet Union. And then what? He can put them down. First, there will be a blockade at the level of voivodship surveillance. It's about a resolution. But, of course, he can do it without a resolution. Theoretically, anyone can do it by committing himself to construction. Well, then the landlord. Let's assume that it's a municipality that has to strip this object, and unfortunately it's at its own expense. What do we promote in this recipe? Of course, we encourage you to implement this law, to comply with its provisions. That's one thing. And secondly, we find that you are responsible here. I.e. those who had no influence on the fact that in their territory, which they are perpetual users or owners, are commemorations contrary to the provisions of the Act, will not bear the costs of removing them, i.e. bringing the situation to a state of compliance with the Act. I don't know if it's clear, Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u127	Thank you very much. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, it was written: "art. 8 explicitly states that the Act does not infringe agreements and treaties with the Russian Federation. In the meantime, we have a record in the case of the existence of such objects, the voivode orders them to be demolished and the current article. 7 receives number 9. I ask you to clarify this point. Second question. Is there a region or voivodship known where most buildings, facilities, etc. will be removed under the Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u129	Maybe I'll start with the other one. I'm sure he's famous. I'm the only one who can't give it right now. I didn't go through it that thoroughly. I have here an entire file of voivodeship reports, although I must say that these reports are not certain either. Because they were made in a series. Not all the municipalities to which the voivods referred have reported on the commemoration that is on their territory, not all of them have estimated the costs of removal. And of course it could happen that the municipality doesn't even know that such commemoration is in its territory. Such cases... [[The Mazowieckie warrior said he didn't know.]] ...they happen too. So that I will review this and provide you with information, which is the voivodship's most impressive, in which, these commemorations are the most. Of course, I say this with a wink in my eye, because it is not the voivodships who are responsible for this or the inhabitants of the voivodship. [[Yeah, yeah.]] And this first question is of course important. This text, which you have read, is from the old text of the law, the first one, from print No 261, from the justification, from the text that is actually out of date at the moment. It was so built and changed that it would rather be necessary to analyze the text from print No 261 S. That's all I can say. In fact, it was quite unfortunate to refer to the general statement that this record was disabling the application... that is, maybe it did not exclude, he said that the text of the bill is inconsistent with international agreements. He is indeed indisputable with international agreements, in this new form too. And even if it were contradictory, the agreements ratified, and all the agreements for the protection of graves and memorial sites are after ratification, have priority application. As I say, with the inclusion of cemeteries and graves, memorials in cemeteries and graves, we still exclude violation of bilateral agreements. We have six bilateral agreements signed. It is unlikely that we will violate any provisions of these agreements. It is simply that special precautions have been taken in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u130	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, I would like to ask you a few questions, but it is in my speech that I will formulate them. And now I only have one question. Namely, was there a question of some dogmaticism in the subsequent discussions on this project, which was included in Section 2 of Section 4, i.e. the exclusion of monuments entered by themselves or as part of a larger whole in the register of monuments? My point is that such dogmatism makes a record of monuments from this point of view and from all other points of view it would be inviolable. And it can happen, what is more, it will happen so that in the register of monuments we will find a monument of unmistakably communist proverence. Is there... [[From Olsztyn. There is an example of Olsztyn.]] An example is Olsztyn. Is there a mechanism that would give us a chance to verify the historical records? Because this amendment clearly doesn't have that in it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u132	I see. But the historical records aren't sacred either. It is possible to remove the object from the register of monuments. I think it's gonna be on an arrangement basis. That is why, among other things, the appeal body, the Minister responsible for Culture and National Heritage, is included here. Of course, that is also what the Institute of National Remembrance is for, which, remember, gives a binding opinion in this regard. Because it's not like a voivode can make decisions, order the demolition of something or remove it in any way. First of all, there is a stage of IPN, i.e. consultation, then there is a decision, and then, of course, the local government or private person on which the monument is based can appeal to the minister. If this object's in the monument register, it's not... This is a difficult element, but certainly not disqualifying in relation to the demolition of a given object, if it actually has a very... that is, if it breaks down our feelings. So that doesn't disqualify demolition. In my opinion, this procedure is possible because, as I said, the register of monuments is not an eternal register. It is not that the object once entered can no longer be deleted from this register.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u133	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I, of course, admire the Legislative Bureau, because recently, after this discussion yesterday, we received a material that we can actually almost thoroughly discuss. My first point is the question about the name of the amended law. Because there's a change here. There is a law amending the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by names and here is included organizational units, auxiliary units of the commune, and further as it was, i.e. constructions, buildings and public utility facilities. Shouldn't the words "organizational units" be used here after the words "council support units"? Because it doesn't concern... Does this apply to the organisational units and auxiliary units of the municipalities? I understand that this is about municipalities, and it shouldn't be a comma here, because these are not separate organisational units and separate organisational and auxiliary units of municipalities. I have doubts about that. If you explain this to me, it's good, and if you don't, I'll think about making an amendment to the title. Now the second point is the cost of removing the monument, which I have already mentioned, at the committee meeting I raised this issue. In Chapter 2 there is a record that you have already mentioned, which means that the costs of removing the monument are borne by the owner or user of the perpetual property on which the monument is located. And then there are the adjustment provisions, and we have a record that the costs of removing the monument are refunded by the Treasury if the owner or user of the perpetual property on which the monument is located did not participate in the procedure of erecting this monument. So I understand that in general 99.9% of the costs will be reimbursed by the Treasury, because, as you said, generally before 1990... We remember the law exactly from 8 March 1990 on local government, which is now about local government and at that time, as part of the communalization, the municipalities were equipped with property, i.e. To the ground. And before that, the decisions... If they were taken by the National Council, they were her decisions. So I understand that, in this situation, we say that only for what you said was possibly after 1990. If such cases were The costs are borne by the municipality. And I'm sure there's very little of these cases. From this statement, which we received, it appears that very little. So I understand that in that case, in general, the cost of demolition or... [[Deleted.]] ...removal, like you said, because it's correct. It will bear the State Treasury. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u135	I'll start with the other one... This is the text of the project formulated. On the one hand, we do not burden those who are now landowners It is mainly local authorities, mostly municipalities, but also private individuals who are responsible for what these entities have found, for a state that they have not had any influence on, if they have not had any influence on it. And that's why it's the Treasury's expense, which is the refund. But on the other hand, in this material provision, we are also talking about the fact that if you dare to violate the law, you pay for it. It's a method similar to what's in the mother's bill, except it didn't involve that much of a cost. And here these costs can be large, because actually Depending on the size of the commemoration, the monument in question It can be up to several thousand zlotys to, presumably, tens of thousands. And that's how it's formulated. Indeed, these monuments we are talking about will be mainly objects that already exist in public space. And from the essential part of the law will apply here mainly art. 3, transitional, from the amending law, or maybe to a lesser extent added article. 5b of the bill... to the mother's bill. But it's okay. In my opinion, this arrangement is healthy, because on the one hand it prevents, and on the other hand it cleans this state, for which actually the municipalities formed in 1990 were not responsible. As for the title, I admit that I'm not that much of a legislation specialist to say whether it should be here and... No one paid attention to it. In my opinion, the record is clear: the organizational units and auxiliary units of the municipality. If it were there. It'd be different if... [[Voice from the room: There is no "and."]] Exactly. But I don't think... I think there's an organizational unit, because it's mostly... By the way, in addition to hospitals, municipalities are mainly the bodies that these organisational units create and which can be named. In fact, this will be applied mainly to schools and school teams, maybe less to hospitals, establishments. At the moment, I can't tell you if there's a cohesion here and if it would heal that title. By the way, it's just between you and me. We're putting together a project. This project will go to the Sejm, you can beat it there, and then he'll come back to us. So it's kind of thoughtful, maybe not for now, or here the title of the law doesn't shorten. I think I said that somewhere in front of one of the authorities. To make it sound like this: a law prohibiting the promotion of communism or another totalitarian system in public space. And then it would include everything, both the names of objects and patronages, which are also shown in public space, as well as monuments, mainly monuments. This I leave to you to consider whether such a more coherent title, or whether replacing this calculation with the wording of "in public space" would not be more appropriate. But I don't bring it up as an amendment, because I think that this title should be kept in mind in the form it was, so that we could talk about the same law all the time, so that the municipalities would know that this is the law. Then, eventually, we can change the title of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u136	Thank you very much. Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u137	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, was there a discussion at the committee's meeting about possible claims by states, organisations in registered countries or individuals who, in general, do not share our view that these monuments or names promote any ideas that are not welcome in us? And, as a result, whether the actions of these countries or other entities to take over e.g. these monuments or other structures and their location also in some public space... Because it is theoretically possible to assume that such an organization or a natural person is buying some property from us, so such a monument takes over and this monument exhibits on this private property. Has the committee also dealt with such, I admit, exceptional but possible cases in the future? Because what we're seeing is that these entities that I've been talking about before are objecting to our actions, but... it can also take this formula that these monuments will not disappear from our space. And second question. In the opinion of the rapporteur, does the bill safeguard and regulate issues relating to the granting, in particular in the past, of certain persons or groups of honorary citizens of the cities concerned? Shouldn't this matter also be regulated in some way, because it is known that these citizenships do not function in such a visible and heard public space, but they are a feature in the history of many local governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u138	The first question is particularly important because we want this law to function and not have negative effects, but to have positive effects, i.e. It also has a primary educational value. Indeed, there were voices at the committee meeting which may have called into question this law, but they pointed to a certain danger, I would call it the rhetoric of countries where commemorations related to these countries should somehow be removed. Well, we can't avoid discussing that, that's for sure. But I think a calm persuasion and this very record of graveyards and graves, which, let's remember, doesn't concern... That is to say, a provision which excludes monuments and other forms of commemoration from the act located in cemeteries, in particular war cemeteries, and all international agreements concern war cemeteries, should alleviate these fears. And this is a matter of discussion and implementation of this law. Another question is whether action can be taken which will somehow, well, maybe not counteract this law, but slow it down. Of course, yes, for example. Buying-out of a given area. But in order for the area to be bought out, it has to be the consent of the person who would sell. I doubt that the municipality is selling a plot, I don't know, a square in the centre of the city with a statue of an embassy of one of the countries just because it will offer a price much higher than the one the municipality could normally get. To be absolutely serious, even if it were, this plot, this property does not become extraterritorial, it is still subject to Polish law, and from the next owner we will demand compliance with the provisions of the Act. And at the very end there's a voivode who makes a decision, and then there's execution, execution mode, as it is in the administration when it comes to decisions. That's one thing. And the other one... I'm sorry, because... [[Honorary citizenship.]] Oh, yeah. About honorary citizenship I do not know if you remember this, those of you who participated in the discussion on the mother law We've already mentioned it. We mentioned whether the names of the institutions, i.e. patrons, patrons, are governed by the law or not. After the revision of the patronage, I'm sure you will, and honorary citizenship. No, I don't think so. Let me put it this way: no one has made such an amendment. I've been thinking about it, but I didn't give it to her either... I'll tell you why not, why I didn't make such an amendment. Theoretically, two words could be added here: honorary citizenship. But it's more personal than that. I can't imagine the operation of such a law that glaishachtating, that e.g. We suddenly receive honorary citizenship from all the activists of certain organizations. This is more of a question, first of all, private, second of all, to the decision of those who have given these honorary citizenships. I know that what I have said may not be popular, but I am in favour of this law, and I do not think it goes so rapidly and so effectively into the public sphere that it should be included in this law. Of course, you can make an amendment, like everyone else. Only, as I say, it does not fall within the scope of this law, but honorary citizenship is not a public sphere.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u139	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u140	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you about the legal side of the bill, which says that the decision of the voivode must be reviewed by the Institute of National Remembrance, confirming that it is incompatible with the law. And what will happen if the IPN does not confirm this non-compliance and the voivode will consistently maintain the position that the object should nevertheless be demolished? The opinion isn't a decision, so it's not the way of the administrative court... what's the situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u141	Let me put it this way: I don't think any voivode would dare to fight... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...first, maybe not so much with IPN... but let's say with IPN, and second with local communities, if it doesn't show this local community, generally in the commune, because so it will be that this commemoration, which indicates, is not in accordance with the law. To put it simply, the voivode should not take action in this case. Incidentally, the voivode is not a completely independent body, please note, but it is subject to the government. And that's what happens at the very end with the appeal body, the Minister for Culture and National Heritage.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u142	Mr. Marshal, I'm just ad vocem. It cannot be that the opinion of the IPN determines this once and for all. Well, there's got to be some kind of way in which conflicts could be resolved. The IPN will also be subject to some personal changes and perhaps the opinion of the next head of the local IPN branch will be different from the opinion of the voivodship.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u143	Okay, but now we're multiplying existences, maybe a little over measure. In order for there to be conflict, there must be two sides. So my question is, what kind of conflict is this? As for the conflict between the commune and the voivodeship... [[Voivodeship and IPN.]] It is generally the case that the landlord does not want to strip the memorial, and the voivode says: we should take it apart. So the voivode turns to the IPN. If the opinion is positive, the landlord has 12 months to demolish. If he doesn't, the voivode has three months to make a decision. There you go, procedure complete. I can't imagine how the voivode would do that. Suppose the voivode gets an opinion from the IPN, in which is the statement that a given monument, the commemoration data does not violate the law. And then what? The governor's trying to pursue his private policy in this area? No, this is a hypothetical situation that I don't think will happen. [[The IPN opinion is therefore binding on the voivodeship?]] Yes, in that sense, yes. [[Then you should have written it in the bill. That would be clear, and from the bill it's not clear that she's binding.]] But binding on what? It's a confirmation, it's clearly formulated. [[Okay, but generally opinions are not binding, and in this case this opinion will be de facto binding.]] I see. It's the wording. I think the content is clear. I didn't have a problem with that, but... [[Everything can be written down. What's the point?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u144	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. After yesterday's very, very long discussion, I would like to clarify a few things, because as it will be written in the minutes I hope you'll be there. They're self-government because I'm gonna talk about them, and they're gonna be able to appeal to that. Life writes different scenarios. You're right, Senator, this bill won't solve all the problems, but I'd like to ask you two questions. As we have said, in Bornem-Sulinów, reconstructing groups are likely to create a cluster where the Soviet monuments will be downloaded from all over Poland. Like we said, this is the youngest city in Poland. It has only been operating within the administrative borders of our country since 1993. And now tell me... Because it's done for educational purposes. It's obvious that people come there mostly to watch this place. There's also something we'll talk about later, a restaurant called Sasha, etc. And that's all I'm going to say, post-Soviet and red star. And then there's the second line. We also had places that were out of control that we didn't have access to. There were also shelters after atomic silos. Once, in the 1950's, it was even mentioned because there were many deaths of children who died of leukemia, radiation diseases. And now it just turned out that they were just atomic silos. Therefore, people kept these shelters and they remained absolutely unchanged. In these places all these devices have been preserved almost entirely. And now please tell me, if, according to the opinion of the IPN, what can happen is the decision to liquidate these places, as communism is promoted in them... [[...promoting.]] Exactly. Please tell me whether, in that case, or both, the costs will be borne by the local authorities and whether it will be subject to liquidation at all by virtue of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u146	In my opinion, this exemption from the article applies here. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 that we do not apply the law to monuments exposed to public view for purposes other than the promotion of the totalitarian system, as part of artistic, educational, collector's activities, partly scientific Because I understand that such a shelter is also partly scientific in nature or of similar nature. That's how I'd interpret it. But I really don't want to speak on behalf of a representative of the Institute of National Remembrance. The opinion will be published by the Institute of National Remembrance. But even if he ordered an object to be demolished... Certainly not a shelter, because the shelter does not belong to the catalog that we have placed here, because it is not a monument, the shelter was not built to promote the totalitarian system. Well, that's a far-reaching analogy. But if even one of the objects in Borne-Sulinov I don't know, I've never been there, whether there are such objects at all, it would be subject to the act of this law, after all, the municipality itself was founded much later than these objects were erected, so even if it had to be removed, the costs would be reimbursed by the State Treasury, in accordance with the provisions of this law. But I think that in terms of making sure what happened to Borne-Sulinov, in short, the head of the IPN or the representative of the IPN has a decisive opinion. I wouldn't want to impose anything here. [[Fulfilling responsibilities of the Director of the Office of Remembrance and Martyrdom at the Institute of National Remembrance Adam Siwek: Can I...)]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u147	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. [[You must be picking me up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u148	Mr. Senator, there's an expression in construction law that the monument is a building. We generally apply here, as you said, the concept of removing the monument, so it does not actually fall under construction law, according to which the demolition is subject to supervision by the inspector, we do not do so a little bit. That's why we defined the monument in this act, we defined it in such a way that the monument means mounds, obelisks, columns, statues, etc., records and plaques, inscriptions and signs, and thus also elements such as inscriptions and signs. Maybe it's more of a question for Senator Mammoth because I'd like to know what the legislator thinks about these issues. Because in turn we're talking about the fact that the voivode, by decision, orders the owner to remove the monument. And now my question is that if we have defined the monument in such a way that it is also subtitles, signs that are some element of the monument, then do we have, if we have a monument, some large object which, in accordance with the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism, promotes communism through the inscription on this monument, which means we have some plaque with inscription and nothing more... Well, I think it would be enough to remove this board and the problem would be solved. And we write in the bill that the monument must be removed and the decision is given by the voivode. Is this the case? Because we have a definition of a monument, and I mean, it's also an inscription. When we have such a monument that could not be destroyed, but only some element of it, i.e. inscriptions, any signs, would be subject to it, will it be necessary to destroy this monument, or will it be enough to dismantle those elements which are part of the monument, although the definition is that these elements are a monument?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u149	I've already talked about it, but I'll say it again. The definition of the monument as such in Polish almost so far was not present. He was only indicated, listed as one of the buildings under construction law. So we should have taken... Well, there are two methods: either the use of a descriptive definition based on e.g. in the way in which the word "monument" is understood, because if there is no definition, it is necessary to use it, or to indicate the signs, i.e. these buildings, the objects which we regard as monuments for the purposes of this law. Please note that we are not saying that this definition is to take over construction law, not in this direction. This is a definition for the purposes of this law Well, the senator raised an interesting question. The question is whether you have to remove the whole obelisk or just a sensitive inscription or just a sensitive red star. Here it is said: we remove the monument, so the whole structure. Perhaps on purpose. But, ladies and gentlemen, let me give you an example of why I think this is more accurate than trying to heal monuments. I was running from Opole. There were two memorial wars in Opole, so I would describe it, in 1995 and in 2002 or 2003, I do not remember exactly. In any case, in 2002 or 2003. The monumental war, that is, the majority with the German minority, which commemorated it, looked so that in the village, which is now called Szczerzyk, on the dam lake, on the Turawski Lake, suddenly appeared on the monument, completely unknown from where, whether it was wind power or something, the inscription that covered the plaster layer, in any case the name Hitlersee emerged. The last name was Hitlersee. This is just how you use replacement solutions and you try for example. remove the hostile, possibly hostile, in any case sensitive name, certainly not fulfilling the conditions indicated in the provisions of this law, in an inconsistent manner. I'd rather avoid such situations. What I'm saying is my personal opinion. And in the context of the example I gave, I might ask why we need new monumental wars. You just have to get it over with. By the way, Poland deserved to be removed from its territory, because the country is also an area, from its body foreign raids and in the ideological sphere, and in the material sphere. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u150	You're welcome, Senator Mammoth.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u151	You also asked me a question. I'll give you an example. Six months ago, I was approached by one of the municipalities that they had a problem with a cocoon commemorating a battle in the area. What did the commune do? She smashed a shield from that column and took the star off. Today it's some piece of concrete, it's not a monument, it's not any concrete, so to speak, fixer. It's just not here today. If there was still a star and that board on this monument, it would have to be undressed as one object. Some municipalities have already dealt with it in this way. In some places there is a stone, for there were stones, and on them were tablets and some stars. The municipalities removed this and today, this remains of the monument, which remains, stone or column, is no longer a monument glorifying the totalitarian system.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u152	Thank you very much. Senator Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a question of that kind. Does the law regulate this situation? Well, in the times of the PRL the city was decorated e.g. The Grunwald Cross, the Order of the Labour Standard of the first class, II or any class, and commemorations were created on this occasion in the form of monuments. Does the law regulate this situation, specifically the issue of this commemoration in the form of an obelisk? If I recall correctly at the moment, there are inscriptions that glorify revolutionary action and the building of a socialist society. I think that's pretty clear. I also wonder what happens to the award that has been awarded. What is the law's approach to this? That's one thing. [[I see.]] And then there's the second line. Mr. Senator in this thread, so to speak, the extra was talking about the names of the settlements. Meanwhile, there are also situations in our country that the names of housing councils were defined by resolutions of housing cooperatives, e.g. Housing Council of the Housing Estate of the 25th anniversary of the Polish People's Republic. [[That's interesting.]] Are such situations also regulated in this Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u154	First, it's a matter of decorating. If there is a symbolic commemoration, which, as it were, extols the award of this award, and there are these kinds of texts, in my opinion, I don't want to speak on behalf of the IPN, it's a demolition monument. Another issue is to give the award and to withdraw it. I'm sure the bill doesn't do that. You'd have to... This may indeed be a problem, perhaps a little bit similar to the problem of honorary citizenship of the city. We'd have to take care of that, but... As I say, it is already a sphere in which this law does not enter, and which maybe it was necessary to deal with. Just a question... The number of different distinctions, the number of different distinctions is so large that... are we able to grasp it legally? Shouldn't we simply leave this matter to the body that awarded the award? [[...no longer exists...]] Well, all the more reason... I'm sure this memorial is to be removed. And the honor itself... I don't even know how it was broadcast, what the procedure was. But this certainly does not fall within the scope of this law. And we didn't talk about it. We didn't reach that far. Next question, second question... [[The names of the settlements.]] Ah, the names of the settlements. I already mentioned it. The word "housing" can actually be used as a threefold. First of all, as the street name, which is the address name. There are neighborhoods here I even had somewhere... e.g. 22th anniversary of the Polish People's Republic. There are still 2 such streets in Poland, according to data from the TERYT database. Secondly, it can be a housing estate as a separate administrative unit, as simply a district. A synonym for the neighborhood. Something isn't called the district, it's called the settlement, but from a legal point of view it's treated as a district. That's what we're talking about in the bill. But, thirdly, there could be cases like this. In particular, in the case of housing cooperatives, the name of the housing estate entered the public space through the name of the cooperative. The cooperative was called Friendship, the estate was referred to as Friendship settlement. The cooperative with Opole was called But that's not his name anymore. So everyone said, "We're going to WWM." Of course, there were a lot of streets, because it's probably a 40-thousand-dollar neighborhood, it's known that the streets had to be marked. And the question is, what about something like that? Well, it's a two-way street again. 'Cause if there's a precinct And it's often like this. The names of these settlements are included in the names of the districts. And then what? And then we have to rewrite that name. So it's automatically... It means not only to transform, but to remove such a name that does not comply with the requirements of the law. I even found here... Exactly. Just out of curiosity... But I don't think I can quote it. Housing estate of the XXX-year of the Polish People's Republic, Wodzisław Śląski. Except that this estate is now part of a district called the Housing Estate of the XXX-Lenght PRL of Piastów-Dąbrówki. I use the Internet, maybe it's not up-to-date. And the name of this neighborhood needs to be changed. And since it has the name of the "siedle of XXX', the name of the estate should automatically be changed as well. There may also be cases where the estate is not a street. In other words, it is not, so to speak, listed by address or by the subsidiary unit of the municipality. And then what? We're gonna have co-ops. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have no such influence over cooperatives. Because, please note, this entire law, as far as names are concerned, concerns local government units. When it comes to names, not memorials, not monuments, just names. Here we are talking about the resolutions of the units, the mode of supervision of the voivodship, etc. We're not talking about housing cooperatives. Of course, there could be a downward pressure on society... That's what happened, for example. in Opole, which I used as an example. ZWM stayed, but It happened relatively late, that is to say recently. The name has been changed to AK. The name of the cooperative, the name of the estate, and also the whole public... the whole designation. Because they were signs and signs on the plans and so on. Although this housing estate of the AK is not, from a formal point of view, a district.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u156	As usual, I'll make it harder. I do not hide the fact that I would also like this law to contain certain contents, so to speak, humanitarian or humanistic. But I'll start with the simplest lines. Some names are definitely, I would say, Soviet, because they come from, for example. from the Soviet Union or from communism, but they have such content, I would say, objectively accepted by humanity. Like Gagarin. It's a soldier... [[We know who Gagarin was. I'm accurate, so...]] We know that... [[Voice from the room: He was a cosmonaut, too.]] He died, but he was a cosmonaut, the first cosmonaut. He died there, but I don't think that humanity has recognized him as the man who built totalitarianism. He was a man who carried out certain orders or orders, perhaps of his own free will... This is the first one. But the harder question is... And these neighborhoods are, and they have an address. This is, for example. 3 block team, no street, just 3 block team. Perhaps there are other cases, e.g. Excellent Russian directors, but included in the formula of the totalitarian state. But the harder question is... When I talk about these humanistic contents, I also think of people from Russia, Russians, Russians or simply Russians whose sons died here, in Poland, under orders, orders of the totalitarian state. Perhaps they were even opposed to totalitarianism. Because they died here, they're buried in mausoleums that have, as you know, a double formula. The Mausoleum is the resting place of these soldiers, and at the same time it is a monument to glory. The most famous is of course... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, I understand that's the question. Yes?]] Yes. And the question is whether this formula of the building would cover it. I personally believe that in the name of the neighborhood, which will one day be better... [[Voice from the room: This does not include.]] Well, it does, because it's... [[Voice from the hall: No, no graves.]] [[It doesn't cover burial sites.]] But it's also a mausoleum. [[Voice from the room: That's okay.]] [[Voice from the hall: But this is the burial site.]] Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u157	I understand that the Senator rapporteur will answer. [[Yes, sir.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u158	I'm starting with the second question because it's easier. That's what the shut-downs are for. That's what these exemptions are for, so that on the one hand there is no doubt, and on the other hand there was no action against the introduction of this law, so that no one would say that we wanted to make someone angry. No, we just want to sort out our public space. And when it comes to the first question, it means how to treat Gagarin, then we also had doubts about Oskar Langy, by the names of the streets. It's very similar. Let me put it this way: that's what the Institute of National Remembrance is for. Here, too, we will have to examine why this street was called this way and not otherwise. Maybe it's not Gagarin. But certain names, which sometimes seem indifferent, may be just impressions, and in turn it may turn out that those which at first glance appear to be contrary to the law were not for that purpose... This is also an important goal: promoting the system, the communist system, the totalitarian system. Fortunately, as I say, it is not us as the authority to deal with this, it will be the authority empowered to do it, and it is the appeal mode, it is very important, it is not so that there is a single instance and it must be so. Here, of course. That is to say, in questionable cases, because this is what we want, everything is for discussion and to be determined. It is also a matter of knowingly introducing this law by the entities that are in force, mainly municipalities. So that it's not considered a compulsion, but in such a way that we just finally have to and we want to do it. Oh, that's the best word.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u159	Thank you very much. Senator Infantry. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u160	Mr. Senator, I have a question about the committee's deliberations. There were amendments made to this law extending the catalogue of the subject, as regards organizations bearing racial, national hatred, as well as extending the catalogue in such a way that not only communism and the totalitarian system are mentioned, but also Nazism and fascism. Could you give me the reasons why the proposal for this point has not been accepted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u161	Let me put it this way: it's hard for me to say why the senators voted so and not so. In the vote, these amendments simply did not pass. Incidentally, one of my amendments did not go through, of course, I have no regrets about that. And back to the point... As regards the inclusion of organisations, which include: In the amendment you have proposed Senator Infantry, the organizations are included, only in a slightly different place, namely in the article. 1, if... Sorry, come back... yeah, well, in art. One, but in the mouth. 2, where it is said that the names referring to persons, organizations, or indirectly... are also considered to promote communism. Then, when it comes to commemoration, we refer to the article. One, at a time... [[It's just the expression "communism."]] No, no... [[And another totalitarian system.]] Yeah, and another totalitarian system. That's how you read it. I'm sure that's what we're referring to. I will submit an amendment, in a moment, after a series of questions, in which I want to specify what this means, another totalitarian system. That concept is not in Polish law. It appears in the constitution, but it is not defined in Polish law. So that from the point of view of the law... That was the first question. And second question. I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u162	It was connected to it. We're just talking about promoting the system... We have nothing here about organizations promoting racial hatred, national hatred. None of these points and points fill... I understand Mr. Senator saw no such record, and that's why the amendment was made. Because in the light of this proposal, if there were such situations, it would not be possible to effectively remove such objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u163	I see. It's about other ways, non-totalitarian. I also had this in mind when I tabled my amendment. I think we can just say this, communicate... The senator may also make his amendment. This is still a matter of discussion. They didn't drink us that much, we don't have to do it tonight. Another point is that the sooner we pass this bill, the better it will be. Maybe I didn't mention it, but in public consciousness, this law of the mother came into existence when she came into force. At the beginning of September. It would be good if, by the way, as I call it, this ferment, this discussion, these emerging press articles... It would be good to add to this amendment. The point is to combine these two texts so that in the consciousness of people, including municipal decision makers, they become... [[I welcome the sympathetic position of the rapporteur on this matter. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u164	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[I'm the one making the amendment.]] It's during the discussion... Thank you very much, Senator. [[I, Mrs. Marshal, will make an amendment in a moment. Thank you.]] Okay, okay. I thank the rapporteur very much. Mr Sebastian Chwałek, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, is with us today at the Senate meeting. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill presented? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u165	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, briefly. I would like to thank the applicants for this initiative, which is extremely important because it will actually put public space in order. This is the completion of a bill that some time ago the High House was proceding and which has already entered into force. It seems that this supplement is necessary and will allow this subject to be closed once and for all. It will happen either with the help of local governments, owners or property managers, or with the help of the administration, the voivodeship. I would also like to thank you for adopting, in principle, all the amendments that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration made at the committee meeting. On just one point we had doubts, and it was about charging the Treasury the costs of removing monuments when the owner could not be found, or when the owner, or rather the administrator, did not participate in the creation of such a monument. Even before that, it was assumed that, in the event that the statue of the voivode was not removed, issuing a replacement decision... If he spends it, the Treasury will bear the cost. That record has been deleted. I would just like to point out that we are not fully able to calculate the costs that this project can generate, but the Home Minister supports this whole project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay a little longer, because now... [[But I don't think there are any questions.]] But I have to ask you this question. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Zientarski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, discussions at committee meetings, because it was not just one sitting, were very substantive. The applicant's representative clearly explained This must be confirmed and fully endorsed by the fact that it has just been mentioned That this law cannot in any way violate memory, honor... [[Calm down.]] ...the peace of the buried Soviet soldiers who participated in the fight against fascism. After all, they often entered the territory, such as the Wał Pomorskie, which was then German territory. This is a very important issue. I think this bill is part of this mother bill, which we also initiated when it comes to elimination from the public order of street names... There is a consequence, there is full agreement, but I think some issues should be clarified. I'm thinking of Chapter 2, please, on this white page at the end of the resolution. Art. Point 5 (3) refers to exemptions. The provision shall not apply to monuments not at public sight located within cemeteries or other resting places. My amendment has already been accepted here, so it's either here or thank you. and made public for purposes other than the promotion of the system in the framework of artistic, educational, collector's, scientific or similar activities. I stress, because that's why we propose this bill to fight against the promotion of the system, that's the idea... I suggest we put the museum in there. Museum activity is also, you can say, educational, e.g. A collection of monuments in Borne-Sulinow, which will be a museum, as Senator Shark said during the round of questions... Together with Senator Štark, we have prepared amendments that are the result of our functioning in our constituency. It's about Borne Sulinowo, because this is a place that not only originated as a city, but also... This village wasn't on the map at all, there were German fields before World War II and later Soviet. This is a place, as you can say, historical, it warns... These monuments, but the same place at all, those silos that are in the white-garden district, they warn. It is only now that we realize, going in there, what was the threat of totalitarianism, that we realize that there were actually armed nuclear warheads near our place of residence. This is a very important educational part, and I don't think you need to convince anyone about it. I think calling this museum or typing it as a museum or a museum to which it comes, in one place, monuments... But they're brought in just to show that these monuments aren't there anymore. They've been wiped out. And they're here to remind you that they'd be here. Therefore, In addition, the Commission considers that I believe that there should be an additional plaque on any monument that is not even displayed to promote the system, but for educational purposes, which would strengthen this educational objective. Because there may be a situation, that not only a monument, but e.g. Place... At the post office in Bornem-Sulinów there is an entrance and on one side there is a relief of a German soldier and a Soviet soldier. It's certain that these are the places where they were taken. It's clearly educational... But let's just put a dot over a dot, let it be written For a passerby, for a tourist In which circumstances it was erected and why it was placed, and that it does not promote the totalitarian system. In my opinion, this is important. Of course, it's all about the monuments that are educational, that are shut down, not monuments... Because there was another amendment at the committee meeting that said to leave a monument at all, just put a board. No. I think in situations like this, when they're somewhere on squares in cities, etc. only for the purpose of promoting the totalitarian system should be either transferred or eliminated, they should not be in an open public space. It's perfectly understandable. That is why we are presenting these amendments. And one more amendment to shut it down... After the point concerning museum, artistic, educational and collector activities, the following words shall also be added: "economic activities." 'Cause they are, ladies and gentlemen, in a certain limitation... In Bornem-Sulinov there is a restaurant of Sasha. In Warsaw there is a restaurant I don't want to advertise any here. Underneath a red face like that or something... They don't promote anything, it's more like a wink. There are certain associations which, of course, are absolutely not intended to affirm the system. I think that you should not pour out a baby with a bath; in such situations this exclusion should also take place. In addition, I believe that many of the amendments that have been voted on, which have been adopted, took into account not only the will of the applicants, but also the ministries, the IPN. I think this bill has actually been... It is never cut to the end, but I think it needs to be pointed out that it has been substantially improved, with the consent of the applicant, of course, who treated certain amendments as self-corrections. I believe that it deserves full acceptance after these amendments have been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u168	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to speak with Senator Jan Zarin. Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to make concrete amendments, but before we do, it's a few introductory sentences. Yes ad vocem statements by Senator Ziientarski, who has just left Only on the basis of a certain anecdote, but not quite. So it's about the restaurant. As you know, there are at least a few hundred, if not more, restaurants in the west of Europe where communism is de facto promoted, e.g. character outstanding in the opinion of many Western European intellectuals, Che Guevara. I do not think that we should actually transfer this type of intellectual and ethical flavour to Polish territory, because they are confronted with our experience, with what Western Europe has not experienced. And we have this sensitivity to not honor criminals. So you have to be gentle in this area. It's not a polemic voice. Please don't treat it like that. It's just a follow-up. The point is to be aware that there is a matrix on this issue that exists in the west of Europe and which does not exactly correspond to our historical experience. If they want to treat Che Guevara as a hero of the universe, it is their problem, but let us be aware that we do not necessarily have to do so in Poland. I would also like to say, before I come to the amendments, that I am very pleased with the changes that have taken place as a result of the joint work, as Senator Zientarski has also stressed. These amendments have gone in a very good direction. E.g. Mr. Senator Bear and I supported him in this regard. We were very much in favour of the unhappiness of the unhappiness, evidently, having to bear the cost of what happened in history. And indeed, this solution has found its place. Of course, it makes a lot of sense to see these records clearly stating that the law will not apply to monuments which are exposed to the public but for a different purpose than promoting the totalitarian system. And here, of course, the example given many times already. But I will remind you that Kozłówka also has such a character. It's not like anybody in their mind would eliminate this place. On the contrary, it is to some extent proof of this. We can go there and confront for educational purposes with this historical message. But I also have the impression that this bill is not capable of securing everything. Here in a few speeches, also the Minister of the Ministry of the Interior, was such a suggestion that we would settle everything with this bill. I kind of feel like we're not gonna get it all done. E.g. Under the influence of Senator Krzysztof Elephant, I think it is necessary for us to consider how, without spilling the baby with a bath, to solve the problem of the existing catalogue of honorable citizens who have this honourable citizenship Of course, Goebbels in Gdansk is such a drastic example. And how, without destroying history of course and not improving documentation or destroying it, at the same time make sure that today at 100% they are not treated as honorable citizens of a given city. I give an example clearly drastic, but such examples are of course on bundles, there are dozens of them, hundreds and thousands on the scale of the whole of Poland. I do not think it would have to be done at the level of this law, because we would still have to introduce the work of the local government committee and the legislation on the functioning of local governments in general, but let us have such a prospect that this law does not close the topic. As regards the amendments, I would like to say, Mr Senator, with all due respect to you and the report that you have been gracious to tell us that I am not satisfied with the answer to the issue of the register of monuments. I would therefore like to ask that the High House adopt an amendment which, on the one hand, amends the whole name of the bill and, on the other hand... From now on it would be a law on amending the Act on the prohibition of promoting communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices and the Act on the protection of monuments and the protection of monuments, because in the Act on monuments and the protection of monuments there is a register of exemptions from the category of monuments. Within the framework of the existing register of exemptions, of course, there are no monuments within the meaning of our law, therefore, in order to shorten the legislative path, I propose to immediately introduce the following provision into this law. I will now read the most important part of this new entry: from the register it is about the register included in the Act on the Protection of Monuments The monument is also deleted as a monument within the meaning of the Act we are pursuing today. In this way we will be able to quickly exclude the object from the register of monuments, avoiding the long-term process and procedure of exclusion, because, of course, this procedure would be based on a conflict between at least several institutions. This is how we avoid this conflict. The second amendment is also as substantive as possible, but, I am aware of that, it can be questioned by you, by all parties. This amendment also concerns exclusion. In Chapter 2 of paragraph 2. 3 is the provision that the provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply. 1 does not apply to monuments and here's a point. 2. located within cemeteries or other resting places. I propose that we accept the amendment as follows: located within military cemeteries... War cemeteries, I apologize, because according to the regulations they are not called military cemeteries, they are called war cemeteries. So it would be like this: within war cemeteries or other resting places. We understand, of course, that this other resting place is a grave that is not subject to our interference. By ours, I mean a country that does not interfere with a grave that is at the hands of family and loved ones. The amendment containing the expression "war cemeteries" will allow us to make a clear interpretation that we honor all that has been produced, including through history, and concerns those who died in the territory of the Polish State. Of course, we are not a party that would in any way destroy the burials of the Polish state created by World War II. On the other hand, we give each other a chance... The law allows us to enter other cemeteries where reality is much more complicated. This may not be the time to give such examples in a short statement, but the fact is that there are very many cemeteries in Poland, on which various types of obelisks were placed in the Peerellian years. They should be subject to this law. We would rule out the possibility of such application of the law... [[Mr. Senator, time...]] I'm almost done. I ask you to accept the amendments so that we do not have to reformulate the law again. The amendments do not change the nature of the law, as it is easy to guess, I am in favour of it in its entirety Only, I hope, a positive complement to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u170	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Piotr Flork to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is right, it's important, it's necessary. It's just a pity that she was being processed for installments, that we couldn't at the same time... That would make the whole procedure easier. I would like to address Mr Mammothov and refer to the committee meeting that was two weeks ago when you spoke about my destructive action. I would like to point out that the bill we're adopting today, and what we did two weeks ago, it's something completely different. Two weeks ago this law included less than 1/3 pages, 2 short articles. And what you later presented at the committee's meeting was another project on two pages. [[There's something to work on.]] Then the amendments were tabled. There were five pages of amendments to the bill. Today, luckily, we've managed to... There's three pages left. On this 1/3 side there are 3 sides. So it was worth the procession. It's just too bad we don't have the possibility here in the Sejm that there's no subcommittee. It's just that there's more time for us to work quietly. Then I'm sure it would be better. Mr. Legislator from our Legal Office has shown us an extraordinary skill here because he was able to put all this together, and today we have a pretty good project. Of course, we had to reorganize the entire bill and divide it into chapters. Otherwise, it wasn't going to be connected, as was already mentioned. And then there's the transitional provisions. I'd like to refer to a few things. I'm not gonna make any adjustments. I explained that the amendment I wanted to make was not necessary. I have my doubts about one thing, but I'll tell you about it at the end. The amendment would be too difficult, and I don't want to complicate the situation. So, Mr. Senator, I'm not going to make any adjustments. Four notes. Term: one year again. Just like the last time... In my opinion, this is a short time. It was easy to do, for example. in 2 years. There wouldn't be any damage here. Now there will be such action in a hurry, and we know what the whole procedure is. We've managed to fix one thing. It's about the decision that the voivode gives, about the collision with the building law, where we're talking about demolition. Isn't the superintendent... there's no demolition here, just the removal of the monument. Therefore, it will be the decision of the voivode. Okay. What is most important here is the fact that there is an appeal body, i.e. a minister responsible for cultural and national heritage matters. Previously, it wasn't, and now it's been settled. We can assume that this case is, let's say, set. Now it's about the removal costs we were talking about. In my opinion, there is no doubt that 99% the costs will be borne by the State Treasury, and more specifically by the voivodship budget. Why? It's clear. Ninety - two percent of all these monuments were created before 1990. As I said, the Local Government Act of 8 March 1990 was implemented in May 1990. At this point, as part of the communalization, local authorities were equipped with both real estate and movable property. And in this connection they could be responsible for this because... Previously there were also municipalities in Poland at a certain time there were also clusters, then there were municipalities. But they were municipalities where national councils functioned, and they were not equipped with wealth, but with something quite different. But now the municipalities cannot be held responsible for the fact that they have taken over the estate, and there is a large monument in this area. Now they will have to bear the cost of demolition? So it's well regulated. And you have to take in advance that 99% the costs to be borne by the Treasury. And now, the last thing I'm talking about is what I said about the question: do you really have to remove the whole monument? [[It might still be useful, the other way...]] It's hard for me right now... But as for this, I would discuss it with the Senator rapporteur. Well, if it costs the State Treasury, it's certainly not going to be a special problem, but if it's the government that's taking it, then And I'm sure that they would raise the limit for this, especially since sometimes the monument has nothing to do with promoting communism, for example, there's just some signboard and nothing else. So I suspect, after our discussion today, because the bill comes into force three months after the President signed it... Therefore, what the senator suggested... [[It's not me, it's him.]] ...or what that senator suggested... It is to be expected that some of the monuments some elements will disappear within these 3 months and then the problem may not be... [[I didn't say that... without a goat...]] Well, maybe there'll be less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u172	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grażyna Sztark, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, in principle, my voice also sounded in the speech of Senator Ziientarski, but I would like to refer, first of all, to Professor Zarin's speech, and secondly, today... And I am sorry to do this now, because I should actually do this on the previous item of the agenda, but I think it is worth remembering today, because today is the thirty-first anniversary of the martyrdom of Father Jerzy Popieluszko, who has always been guided, and in his homilys it was a motto: conquer evil with good. Today these words should also sound, just in connection with the project from the previous point, but not only. I think it is worth reminding us of this all the time, because it is also an indication for us for the future. And the memory should never be forgotten by us. It is also worth recalling today. But to the point. Today, yesterday too, we said a lot about these issues set out in this bill. Among other things, we talked about these unfortunate areas of ours. I will remind you of Borne-Sulin and my district, the white-garde district, in which there are these famous and reminiscent places of atomic silos. And Borne-Sulinowo is a place where also And it has not been said that the annual... As a reminder of this place, they come from all over Poland, also in different ways, so to speak, uniforming, also with these famous stars of the Red Army... This is not so much a celebration as it is an important meeting for reconstructive groups, but it is for educational purposes. And that today, I hope, sounded and we sort of did it in this bill. But I'm thinking about the voice... I am very happy because it was really a very constructive discussion. And it was even worth excluding it from this already infamous previous law, in which we dealt with the issue of street names, city names and names concerning squares, etc. It was worth waiting for, because it is very important. And I firmly believe that during the time that we have left, that we will be perfecting it over the three months, and that the Sejm, who will also take care of this bill, will perhaps clarify it. Maybe because I've been thinking about it. For such a city as Borne-Sulinowo, which we were talking about, that it actually began to exist in 1993, it is worth creating an exemption on the basis of lex specialis, just for this place. Are we... Why don't we extend the time? Why don't we And this would also benefit the local government of Borne-Sulinov, which uses, I think, in a very good way... But it doesn't have to be the whole... I say he's been using it correctly so far... even with that famous restaurant that Professor Żaryn mentioned. Here I would like to reassure you that the name "U Sasha"... This is an officer of the former Soviet troops who were stationed there. And there is an excellent borscht of Ukraine, all meals are from that era, but there are also candy etc. This reminds me of my childhood, because we've been through a lot of trouble at the so-called cinema and the Soviet restaurant that was in my town. For Whitegard, after the Legions... No, not after the Legions... [[Legionally, yes.]] Yes, after the Legions, it was the largest place for Soviet troops to be stationed. [[No, Legnica.]] That's right, after Legnica. I'm sorry. Not Legionary, Legnica. I'm so sorry. That's why I thought about it. That's why in the case of cities like Borne-Sulinowo maybe we'd like to come back... Because I don't have an idea for today, but there might be a clue for the future. As regards the amendments, I would very much ask that we endorse the amendments that have been mentioned here, because they will make things easier for us. But I would also ask that some educational activity on the part of the Senate be directed to those cities where... Because I suppose in Opole, but also in our territory, I also suppose in Lower Silesia... In those places there are a huge number of such remains from the Soviet troops, most often after the Soviet armies, right? Therefore, I would call for some educational action and from the IPN, and from the Senate to be conducted so that the information would be very widely directed to be sold to local governments, so that it would not be all of this. only in the form of such pressure, but in order for it to be said with such care that we absolutely do not impose an obligation on local governments to finance this activity. And that it's just done so that we can start functioning with a clean card, often forgetting about these cards, and just passing it on to the next generation in educational form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u174	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am speaking in the debate because, during the work of the Legislative Committee, I have tabled a very important amendment with Senator Piechota, I believe, but this amendment has unfortunately not been supported. There was only one vote left for this amendment to be supported. And I would like to make this amendment again at the moment, but with reason to know why we are making this amendment. This amendment concerns the title of the law itself. In the title of the Act, to which we are currently debating It is said: "It is forbidden to promote communism or another totalitarian system." There's such incoherence in the title itself. Why do we specially distinguish communism from other totalitarian systems? This may suggest that e.g. other totalitarian systems we treat more indulgently, that they are not so totalitarian to the end, while the Constitution of the Republic of Poland clearly says: Nazism, fascism, communism. Yes? He's clearly exchanging... I do not understand why we here hide this fascism and Nazism under the slogan of other totalitarian systems. Of course, you can go in the other direction: cross out the word "communism" and leave only totalitarian devices. And then it would be logical, because if someone asked what these are totalitarian systems, one could answer: or those which are mentioned in the constitution. And then the matter would be as clear from the point of view of logic and also from the point of view of how our decision on this law will later be read by society, by people. I would therefore like to make an amendment. The aim is to make the title as follows: "It is forbidden to promote Nazism, fascism, communism or other totalitarian system, as well as organisations whose program or activity assumes or allows racial, national or violence by organizational units, community support units, the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices and monuments. There's another issue here that kind of slipped out of this bill that we're working on today. Namely, it's about organizations. Because right now, ladies and gentlemen, we're just talking about systems. But if we have an organization that spread racial or national hatred, we know that such organizations were, there is even a film that we have been able to watch in cinemas for a few days. It's this organization that's not a system. So it's like it's going to be possible to build monuments or in any other way to refer to the operation of this organization. And I'm gonna refer it back to the Constitution, because that's what's taken from the Constitution. Also, those organizations that spread racial and national hatred should be included in this bill so that we do not create such a gateway through which we can... because it is not possible to promote communism, Nazism and fascism, but already. criminal organisation may be - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. 'Cause she's not gonna be in this bill. I therefore make an amendment to your marshal's hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u176	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to speak with Senator Robert Mammothov.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I'll start with your attention to Mr. Flork. Mr. Florek said there wasn't time that he was short... that there wasn't much time to work on this bill. I would like to draw your attention, Mr Senator, that this bill was based on and requested by the local government of Jastrzębie-Zdrój, who addressed this House 10 years ago, almost 10 years ago. Can you imagine that? In the previous term with this bill, with this project and this subject The colleagues who are sitting here know that I have fought for 2 years. Eventually, this project didn't come out of the Senate. So that your statement that there was no time to debate this is not entirely true. Ladies and gentlemen, from this point forward, I would like to thank Mr. Jurk, Mr. Senator Czerwinski, because he presented it as I would not have done it. Thank you very much, because I wanted you to understand what this is all about. When there's some doubt, when we talk about monuments, we say there's a boulder... No. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to wipe out the monuments, level the monuments like this. a monument of the four sleeping, like a monument in Olsztyn, a monument depicting the Soviet heroes who liberated our land and know what they brought us. These are the monuments, these monuments must be leveled to the ground. If it looks like what I said, I mean this example, I don't know what to call it, columns with a star symbol and some board... The general of this community said he didn't have any money to dismantle it, but he came up with an idea and took off the star and the board. Today there is a piece of concrete and no one wonders if it could have been a monument glorifying the totalitarian system. I'm not suggesting anything, but it's okay, isn't it? I would also like to go back to the law on street names and give you an example. How were the communities doing? I'm gonna start by saying that we want to help the local governments to have a tool and finally get rid of the remnants of that system. This is often the case, and you know that there are different forces in local governments, some of the municipal council or municipal council wants to dismantle, some cannot and cannot solve this problem. We're just helping them with this bill. But I'm gonna go back to those street names. Ladies and gentlemen, I've met for example. with a situation like this. The mayor of one of the towns told me that he had a Soviet street and they wanted to eliminate that name. But when we started talking about it, it turned out that the name of this street came from the fact that the parades were going that way, and in honor of these parades they adopted that name. It was many years ago, no one paid attention to it and the street name stayed. Another village was Zawadzkiego Street. The municipality changed its name to Zawadzkie Zośki and it is good that nothing else had to be changed. So that by giving people, governments this bill, we're really going to help them. We're talking about costs. Ladies and gentlemen, in 80% of cases, this is going to be about some plates, some rocks, so that the cost will be small, really. And I would like to point out that often the commune spends more on a banquet after opening the road than on dismantling such a monument. That's why I don't accept such arguments. Finally, the matter of amendment. Senator Żaryn has tabled a proposal for an amendment on cemeteries. I ask you not to make this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have worked out about this point is that here we are talking generally about cemeteries and burial sites, this is the best solution, for today it is the best solution. No organization will be attached, no neighbor, no one will be attached, because that will not include those places where they can attach themselves to us. I'm gonna say it again because it's not like I insist, even though I've been betting on not including cemeteries in general... Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that our heroes, our soldiers, our insurgents are scattered all over Europe. And we can't at any time give anyone the slightest reason to violate the peace of our heroes. And that's what my heartfelt request is to leave this point to the cemeteries as it is. That's it. Thank you very much. Because with such a short project at the beginning... We just started working on it. That's where we start. I thought we could make these amendments at the first meeting. 'Cause I knew there'd be corrections, that's obvious. But you wanted to wait two weeks, work it out. You're welcome. And today, in my opinion, we have the optimal solution. I'm making a heartfelt request for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u178	Thank you, Senator. And Professor Kazimierz Wind, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I do not hide the fact that I hesitated to give up this voice, because there are various words here in this important matter. And I think we have a serious problem with the Polish People's Republic in our society. I was here a few weeks ago, quite recently, talking about the April Constitution and all that sin of 1989. And that's basically a knot that's hard to figure out. Nevertheless, you can see that the problem of learning history in school or Polish culture in Polish language lessons, historical education... These are so important issues that they should be above political or party dispute, because they are so important to us. I must say that such a direct impulse to speak was the statement in one of the speeches, here just a moment ago... In fact, you could paraphrase it like this: a monument without subtitles to rent. We take off the subtitles, we can make another statue there. This, however, is so highly economical, contrary to the idea of this law. I understand that there are economic considerations. Nevertheless, I remember how, when I was a young man, Grunwald's monument was rebuilt in Krakow at Matejka Square. And then there was a very big discussion, which lasted for weeks, that this is not the best place and that there are better places for the location of this monument. And yet he won the argument that we do not want to be grateful to the Germans for the fact that this monument has been destroyed and that we have it in a better place. And he stands in the place where he stood before the war, and has the appearance he had before the war. And that's why I'm trying to get you to think. I don't know who our heroes would want to be commemorated on a base like this. Sorry about the colloquialism. That's why this monument without subtitles to rent... But I'd wonder if that's a good idea. I remember the attempts to destroy the monument Lenin in Krakow, in Nowa Huta or in Poronin. But I also remember that in the district of Tarnowski in 1957. A young scout instructor, Dr. Maria Żychowska, with her scouts, built a statue of the soldiers of the Home Army. The monument brings great, positive emotions. And then it makes a lot of sense. Dr. Żychowska, a young, delicate, sensitive woman in her early youth She didn't have a doctor's degree at the time, of course. And in 1957, it wasn't so obvious whether something like this was welcome, whether she'd ever find a job in her life, or maybe she'd end up in prison, because that's what happened back then. So I think that all of this, however, requires such a deeper reflection and, above all, a conversation. It seems to me that many people kind of don't quite understand it all and consider it a simple retaliation, as now we. And that's not the point. After all, we talked in this House about the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism, about these beautiful stories. Pope Francis spoke beautifully about this good memory, so I would like deep reflection, reflection and good to accompany this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Żaryn wishes to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Only two sentences about Senator Mammoth's voice. I understand that the intention is not to irritate the lion, the bear, the more that maybe there are more of these bears and lions, but no doubt that's why we learn the art of diplomacy to know how to ask for our reasons, even when it comes to Polish cemeteries outside the country. I cannot imagine anyone being graceful to compare Polish victims from the period of World War II, whose burial sites are located in the former Soviet Union, to those monuments which are located in the territory of non-war cemeteries and glorify the totalitarian regime. We weren't intruding in the years of World War II, and we weren't invaders, we were victims. I think that Polish diplomacy will deal with such a problem, and if not, we will change diplomats.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u182	Thank you very much. Let me inform you that the list of speakers has been...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u183	Mrs Marshal, I would like to make a request to carry out a third reading at this Senate meeting and to oblige the committee to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u184	Okay, we'll get right back to that. Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing by the senators: Jerzy Czerwiński, Piotr Zientarski, Jan Żaryn, Andrzej Misiołek, Leszek Piechota, Grażyna Sztark. The discussion is closed. Is the government representative in the courtroom? There isn't. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Culture and Media. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. There's no objection. Thank you very much. So let's move on to the next point. [[Voice from the room: Still a message.]] A message, indeed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the point concerning the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Canada, so-called. CETA, will be considered today, not, as previously announced, tomorrow. Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft call to the United Kingdom Parliament. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The draft is contained in print No 272 and the committee's report in print No 272 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a joint report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate! I am authorised as rapporteur and, in part, as the representative of the applicants, to report on meeting 3 of the Committee: Human Rights I'm talking in a nutshell. Legal and foreign affairs and the European Union. These committees leaned on the draft appeal on 9 September and decided not to support it. 15 senators voted against the call, 11 in favour, 2 abstentions. Senators, government representative and legislative department spoke during the committee's work. Respect requires that we first present the votes of the opponents of this appeal. Firstly, they believed that this was not the time in which such a resolution would have to be adopted. Secondly, many people have said that government initiatives should be abandoned. Thirdly, it was considered that the problem was not important enough to deal with the form of appeal. The minority vice versa felt that, due to the construction of the Senate, it was right for the Senate to deal with the situation of Poles in the UK after Brexit. Firstly, this was argued by the need for action, wisdom against harm. Secondly, it has been said about it, it is included in the appeal, and I will speak about it in a moment. In this respect, we need to have a conversation, a dialogue with parliamentarians from the United Kingdom, as they should do or as friends do. Thirdly, it has been noted that the government's efforts, even the Prime Minister, but also other institutions do not produce the expected results. Although three committees have discussed this issue, so the knowledge of the appeal is quite significant, but with the public opinion, the media, as well as all the senators who did not take part in the discussion and did not listen to the arguments, I would like to brief you on this. not so much with the content of the appeal as with his philosophy. As far as editorial issues are concerned, it contains the phrases "it is a novelty" to the UK and Ireland Parliament. It calls for, first of all, more noticeable is the problem of behavior, probably few British, who just after Brexit tried to consummate its results on the street. There have therefore been cases of national discrimination. Most often it was said that aggression caused the use of Polish language. As a result, there was one case of assault, which resulted in the death of a Polish citizen residing in the UK. Shortly after that, there were more "incidents" called them "the British media." In which our fellow countrymen were severely injured. The Polish Embassy in Great Britain counted that 37 cases of xenophobic assault, including 19 cases of carnal assault, had been reported until this appeal was made. Of course, it was accompanied by other acts in the form of subtitles, calls or fights... and that's what we wanted. We have such an obligation to illustrate to the UK and Northern Ireland Parliament. It is true that the Polish Government has taken an instant response by sending even a group of government members to talk to the British Government. It is also true that the Prime Minister personally spoke with the Prime Minister of Great Britain about these behaviours, or actually about stopping such attacks on Poles. May I remind you that Poles It is different here than in the previous case, i.e. in the case of refugees. They are legally resident in the United Kingdom on the basis of agreements which the United Kingdom has concluded in the framework of its accession to the European Union. One of the fundamental rights in the Union is the right to the free movement of all citizens throughout the European Union. This appeal is also justified... Let's add that the High House has also become acquainted with... The Senate Marshal himself wrote a letter to the British Parliament, but to the House of Lords, if I'm aware. I didn't see the contents. The answer has recently arrived, but it is an answer, let's say politely, dosed, because it only says that the British Parliament remains in dialogue with the Polish embassy in England. What is the content of the appeal was simply not touched. And now it's the most important thing. The editorial system of this appeal is not just about making a statement, it is about illustrating all the acts that have taken place. There's a prescription there. This would involve setting up a joint parliamentary working group on migration in the UK. There is no need to justify this in this House, so let me just mention that at the moment it is the largest national group in the UK, reaching 1 million people. And there is no indication that until the United Kingdom has finally left the European Union... Until then, all the rules, documents signed by Poland and Great Britain will be applied. So this group can be enlarged. Statistics indicate that this group grows by 40,000 people each year. It's not just a problem of compliance. Just like the refugees we talked about at point four, I think... This number is increasing. There is a need to understand that, in the course of a few years, almost 1 million Poles came to Great Britain for work, for learning, for family contacts. It must also be taken into account that the appeal contains a premise which says that the previous Polish-British relations were good. I would even say that they can be understood as a model because of the sustainability of the struggle, especially during the Second World War, from the later reports on the support of Britain towards the aspirations of freedom of Poland during the struggle, i.e. in 1981: the actions of Mrs Thatcher and later, when Britain was our ally when it came to joining NATO and the European Union. It is also important to note the fact of the first wide opening of the UK to this wave of Polish immigrants. It is a capital that cannot be lost in any way, but cannot be mortgaged with xenophobic speeches. The appeal also notes that the main reason for these speeches was the referendum campaign before Brexit, which ended unexpectedly... or the discord of the public, the British voters, to the UK's participation in the future history of a united Europe. An appeal, which is not noticed due to the extensive content of the text... However, we note that one of the three issues that were the subject of the referendum was the wrong immigration policy, which was supported by the free movement of the population, and, of course, our countrymen benefited most from it. And in this appeal, the intention is not to spoil this good level of relations, whether the United Kingdom has already been in the European Union or, as decided, will not be in it. There is simply a need for a good, friendly policy for parliaments. Because, as I've shown, this isn't a case of pranks, incidents. This is the issue of a political campaign involving not only politicians, even those who wrote bad correspondence from Brussels about immigration, and who are in the government today, for example. Boris Johnson, but also the media. It is also a matter of spreading a certain hysteria of danger, unwarranted. I would just like to point out, in such a mirror way, that at the time when the action on immigration took place, also the capital flow, the other way of capital, people, English culture... It was all openly welcomed in Poland. England belongs to one of the leading investors in Poland. In Poland it was also mandatory to take English exams in schools, especially in secondary schools. British culture, of course, won the first place in my opinion in promoting the creators and works of English culture, that I would mention movies, but also Shakespeare festivals. I think it also obliges us to maintain the principles of reciprocity in our relationship, and I am not talking about equality anymore. I repeat, the resolution The last word I've said. It proposes setting up such an unknown, say, solution for friends to engage in dialogue through a working group of parliamentarians. Why is that? Why aren't normal, routine actions of governments, parliaments enough? After all, there is a parliamentary group of Polish-British and probably mutual in the UK. Because, according to the UK, events are incidental and are able to reduce them, to reduce them. 'Cause it's hard to eliminate. By means of the activities of the UK law authorities. It is also because, according to the UK Government, the British Government is opposed to any form of xenophobia and will take all measures to ensure that this does not happen. However, we believe that this is not enough, especially since the government, like every government in the world, has limited possibilities of action. He cannot speak freely about, for example. articles published in newspapers such as "The Sun" or "Daily Telegraph" which organized opinions for Brexit and against Polish workers, Polish homeless, Polish benefits. The working group is also a place not only for mutual conversation, but for meetings with other environments. My dream remains, for example, that it could be a dream. The common duty of parliamentarians of Poland and Great Britain, where you can talk to people in local environments and create this desirable atmosphere of cooperation and friendship. High Izbo, finalizing the revision of the resolution that the committees have taken. This resolution is in the interest of a million Poles. Regardless of what we think about emigration and what plans we have, 40% today of them clearly indicate that he does not see the possibility of returning to Poland on any condition, 60% He can't see either, although it depends on certain conditions. So we're gonna have to deal with at least a couple of years of... We are doomed to at least a few years of these relations and to preserve the rights which the United Kingdom and Poland have signed in them. I am talking about the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Come on, this presence is being used both by the British and us. In my opinion, the interests of any groups both in Poland and in the UK will not be disturbed. In this belief, High Izbo, I move for an appeal. [[Very...]] At the same time, I would like to ask that the third reading be held at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jan Rulewski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the draft call? We have Minister Marek Ziółkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marek Ziółkowski: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In a few words, I would like to refer to the appeal, to this initiative. We don't have a critical opinion. That's not the point. But we would like the ministry's position to be heard on the matter to be addressed. In our opinion, the parliaments of both countries have a very important role to play in bringing together Polish and British society. Direct contacts, visits, consultations, as well as marshals of both chambers, would be an important instrument in this respect. An example of this is, among others. Mr. Marshal Karczewski's last letter. The parliamentary work of the friendship groups mentioned by Mr Rulewski is an important aspect of the dialogue. However, in our opinion, perhaps too bold, the intensity of these contacts is not so rich that the thesis, including the Senator, of the importance and intensity of our bilateral relations, can be regarded as reflected in parliamentary contacts. We support efforts to step up cooperation on the status and rights of Poles living in the UK. Such cooperation will also help to address the problems our citizens face, including the case of xenophobic incidents. We look forward to organizing meetings and joint visits of Polish and British parliamentarians. On the British side, we note signals of readiness for dialogue on the situation of our citizens. The Ambassador of the United Kingdom in Poland is ready to meet with representatives of parliament in order both to read the position and actions of the Polish authorities and to present, of course, the actions of the British authorities. Yesterday there was a meeting of the committee on European affairs of the House of Lords with the ambassador of the Republic of Great Britain, Mr Rzegocki, about the situation of Poles living in Great Britain. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are preparing an information campaign in the UK aimed at combating intolerance and strengthening the positive image of Poles living in the UK. We also count on working with the Senate on this issue, for example because the Senate has a traditional mission to care for Poles abroad. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and subordinate consular services monitor the situation of our citizens in the UK, intervene with the British authorities in the event of violations of their rights and take action to guarantee the rights of Polish citizens in the Islands after possible Brexit. I would also like to thank you for your mention of these actions by the senator. Previously, during the committee's work, we mentioned these visits, meetings, so I'm not gonna remind you of that. As for the text, I would just like to get back to this point. This was discussed during the committee's work With regard to this deadline and possibly the content behind it concerning the parliamentary group on Community emigration. I will repeat our opinion that this is a term that may suggest that this group deals with the British in Germany, Portuguese in Poland, French in Italy and not just Poles in the UK or British in Poland. It might complicate the work. If this group were to be, as the senator explained, a group for the immigration of Poles in the UK, that would probably be the case. We also appeal, in various forms of contact, to the most important group that this appeal concerns, namely the Poles in the UK. The representatives of our government during these recent visits, our diplomats... We often have meetings with Poles in the UK and they try to... First of all, they confirm that they will not come back for various reasons and do not view it as a aggravating circumstance, they claim that Great Britain is a country for them, many say so. The chosen one is to remain so. Without ignoring, of course, the seriousness of the situation Poles usually call for calming moods, but of course not quieting matters down. In this opinion, we would also like to point out that our social group also has a role to play in this matter. Thank you kindly. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u188	Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marek Ziółkowski: Thank you.]] At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. Minister, we'd like to speak to you for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u189	Minister, since the draft of this appeal, there have been various government actions and more facts. Among other things, there has been a decision by the British Government, Mrs May, to speed up the UK's presence from the European Union. The talks on this subject will begin, if I remember correctly, in March. My question is whether the government is aware of the government's intentions in terms of immigration policy. As you know, there are different positions, there are different news about and these are the list of employers who will hire, among others, Poles, and this is the withdrawal of benefits and the like. I understand that the government is following all of this, but I want to ask if there are known facts that would suggest that there should be calming down here, not some parliamentary offensive.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u190	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u191	Thank you kindly, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, Brexit, this is how we put it during the committee's work. It is a major challenge for Poland and other EU countries. We are aware of its possible consequences and difficulties in negotiations. With Great Britain, we want to maintain, as we have repeatedly stressed, very close relations in security policy and economic relations. But we have to deal with the facts, the fact that Brexit is going to happen. The Prime Minister of Great Britain has confirmed that I will answer directly. We may not necessarily consider this an acceleration, because the first voices were that it would be at the end of this year, and at the moment we are talking about March next year. The only real answer to the deadline will be the formal fact that the application is submitted in accordance with Article. 50 of the Treaty on European Union. The British Government has not taken any formal step yet, but there were only various statements. As long as what the Prime Minister said is true in March... There may be some legal facts ahead that will confirm that the United Kingdom will actually make an appropriate request, but for now there are only statements and media comments. There are no other facts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What do you think... I don't know if you have that intel. Is the wave of protests against Poles increasing, or is it decreasing? Is the number of accidents increasing or falling? A week after a week... what's the trend? That's another line. I don't know if you're authorized to talk about it. Please tell us in a simple text whether the proposed resolution will be beneficial or unfavourable to us. Will it bother us, this is the government, will it bother us, or will it help us?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u194	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u195	I don't feel strong enough in statistics to determine if there's a trend here. This is thirty-six cases out of a few hundred thousand citizens. It's a number on the basis of which drawing trends would be too early. Sadly, it would take a longer period, such as a six - year period, to recognize that this is a trend. Then we could actually evaluate it. As for the appeal and its effectiveness or its supporting role... I wouldn't want to call it that. It is the government that can help the parliament or the Senate if there is such a request in some file. I would say this: we see the need to interact with British parliamentarians, but should this contact be in the form of an appeal... Well, that's what we think, that's what I think, that's my opinion, that we should check in advance whether through our embassy, our ambassador, or through the British ambassador in Warsaw, how much British parliamentarians... not whether they want to respond to this appeal, but for example. Whether they'd like to set up the group you're talking about or the group you're talking about in this appeal. However, if concrete action is proposed in the appeal, their effectiveness can be tried a little earlier before the call is announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u196	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u197	Minister, well, you're an expert on these problems... We're on our way to a very hot job. And now there are such solutions in publicistics. It is the United Kingdom that comes from the European Union, so the burden of negotiations should rest on the burden or on the sole burden. In the European Union. But there are voices of followers of the view And I'm signing up for them. That Poland has a special role in post-European relations and after Brexit because of the number of these... and also because of these incidents. And there is a question to the government: will the Polish government, in addition to these obvious British-EU negotiations, engage in bilateral negotiations, taking into account this critical mass of our fellow countrymen... I don't think he's going to overdo it or correct it, but if England, as it says, is sovereign, which means she's going to be willing to talk bilaterally or there's going to be a favorable situation... Does the government foresee such an option?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u198	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u199	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, I will not be persuaded to reveal even some of the clues that we have in mind to negotiate with the United Kingdom or the European Union's negotiations with the United Kingdom on Brexit, and especially on workers' rights and the movement of persons. There is not yet this basic political fact, which is the British proposal. But there isn't yet either. Only in the European Commission, with other European countries, in different formats, bilateral, V4 and others, are we discussing this issue Some features of the negotiating lines in this matter. Besides, it's considered... That's the commentator's opinion, and I don't want to say that we care about her, but we're considering her. It would certainly be a risk at the moment to make a political decision whether we are taking bilateral talks with the United Kingdom, because in fact the benefits that we would gain after six months could be considered, because other countries with the United Kingdom in general, when it comes to the issue of the movement of persons, would have much greater concessions or privileges or better solutions. At the moment, there is no sense in taking such a risk from a political point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u200	Senator Comfort. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u201	I am very pleased that, in this resolution, we can hear the opinion of a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am also very pleased that my colleagues are so concerned about whether this resolution will harm our relations or not, to the extent that this question has been raised to the Minister, because it is an expression of far-reaching caution. It is only a pity that, as we recently passed a resolution on Ukraine, this concern was lacking and those questions were not there, nor was there a clear response from the Ministry. But I would like to know about the following two points. First of all, do you have any idea if you've run any statistics... Did the situation with these assaults, attacks really get worse? Was it better before Brexit, before the referendum decision, and after the referendum, worse? I would like to know if you have such analyses. Secondly, are you conducting an analysis of this And if so, I would like to know what your opinion is. What long-term consequences for Poles living in England can there be when England actually leaves the European Union? Have you carried out such analyses, especially in view of the very lively discussion currently underway in England, where even Brexit's supporters believe that this should not be a government domain but a parliament? Is there any way you could expand our knowledge on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u202	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As for this first issue, there is no deep dispute as to whether the dozens of incidents that occurred just after the referendum were an extension of some previous trends. No, it wasn't. According to our observations, it was associated with a kind of tension that in the UK caused a lot of different slogans related to the Brexit campaign, including anti-immigrant slogans. So that I find that this was without a doubt the time when there were the most incidents related to the attacks on Poles. Whether the situation will calm down today or in three months 'cause we hope that's the perspective I can't say that. As for Brexit, as I recall, several committees have already discussed "Whether it's with Minister Szymanski or with other colleagues of mine" On the different scenarios for Poland and the UK, on the economic and political consequences, on the common security and defence policy, and even on global policy. We are discussing this and we can present various analyses. At the moment, I'm not prepared to give a paper on it, but it's something we're trying to do. Of course, on the first day after the referendum, we had a few analyses in the Ministry on this subject, and at the moment they are a little deeper. And if that is the wish, perhaps my colleagues, especially Minister Szymański, will present such analyses. In addition, it will already be an analysis confronted with the position of other countries, because we have already done a lot Well, we've actually spoken to most of the European Union's countries. A consultation on the consequences of Brexit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u204	Senator Ambrosik. I'm asking you a question... [[No, me.]] Uh-huh.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u205	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Well, we know that after these incidents in Harlow there was a rapid and decisive reaction of the government, both from Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Minister Waszczykowski. Mr. Marshal Stanisław Karczewski also wrote a letter. To your knowledge, were there any problems on the British side with explaining these incidents? Did the UK side somehow make it difficult to explain and prevent these incidents in the future?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u206	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u207	No, what I might call obstruction of access to documents or information about an investigation... There have been no such cases. There have been cases of cooperation at various levels, including visits by our police officers in the UK. Not only government representatives, but also officials who will be familiar with these cases in the UK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u208	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marek Ziółkowski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister once again for his kindness and substance in his approach to this appeal and for keeping the obvious distance between the executive and legislative powers. If I didn't say it in the report, it's just because I thought you'd do it better. I confirm that your statements are a very good example of government and parliament working together. High Izbo! In this brief appeal, to which many comments have been made... There have been comments from the legislative department that require the attention of Senator Czerwinski. As a representative of the applicants, I took them all into account. I'll put it in the form of an amendment. However, it should be added here that, for understandable reasons, the appeal does not contain all the information, including those not mentioned by the media. The head of the UK Office for the fight against xenophobia and racism says that after the Brexit decision Okay, I'm gonna cut it short. The situation of xenophobic speeches in England has increased. More importantly, he confirms that this knowledge comes primarily from the registration of such accidents. In his study or interview he reveals that the registration And in England, it's at a good level. Only the brightest cases are noted. You don't record cases where people suffer, but you don't. This is a phenomenon known not only in the UK, but also in Germany, where people were afraid to admit to Polishness, so as not to miss the chance to stay in Germany. This phenomenon is known to me from an autopsy. Cars could not stand in front of the hosts' houses and had to be hidden in parking lots. There is no reason for many Poles who have different status of residence, from legalized status by obtaining citizenship to residency or permanent residence, at the time of Brexit a different policy will, of course, be applied. Those who will not have a legal residence And it's not a small number. They will have to comply with English legislation. It's not there. also described all these repressions that have already appeared and which are of a nature, I would say, mentally-absorbed. Because when it is suggested by the British Government Minister that there should be lists of entrepreneurs who employ foreigners, including Poles, of course, it is not a violation of the law. Fortunately, in the UK, this was considered irresponsible and the Minister of Labour withdrew from this position. The most important thing is here. The Minister confirmed this. That we do not know the intentions of British politicians who are very literally fulfilling their electoral promises. This is easy because there is a two-party system. It is worse in Poland, where coalitions have to be created and, as a rule, even or massage promises. There is no doubt that the British Government will execute the electoral mandate, as confirmed by Mrs May And Britain will leave the Union in short abcugas, as the Germans say. And the question is: what will happen to a million Poles and those who, thanks to emigrants in a very small number, get different titles from those criticized by the British who receive benefits, unemployment benefits, child benefits, to those who have not yet obtained residence rights or legal residence? Let us not mention citizens, they will remain in full rights. So this is not just an issue of immigration itself. The Senate is as empowered as possible to take a stand on these matters. To be honest, the right or the majority in this Senate, including Marshal Karczewski, have been very anxious to have matters of emigration assigned to the Senate. Measures have also been assigned. In my opinion, the Senate cannot remain silent on this matter. Of course, I agree that the Senate has to deal with what is written in the resolution when it comes to various initiatives. We do not want to worsen current relations, even when England announces, we cannot hide sovereignty, which means independence from a united Europe, including Poland. We don't want to spoil that potential. We still want the British presence in Poland, the presence of capital, cultural presence, but we also want a principle of symmetry to apply. In the UK, there are known organisational activities by the parliament that are targeted at certain issues. Before joining the Union, the United Kingdom set up a parliamentary group on the accession of the United Kingdom to the Union, a group, I do not know whether it was called a working group or not, but set up a group to prepare elements of accession. I have already shown that the government's actions could not have achieved all the results, because these excesses and perhaps those which may occur during the procession, hopefully they would not be They're beyond the government's influence. I am talking about the media, I have pointed out which titles led the Brexit action, they were also mental attitudes, especially in small towns, autonomous ones, local governments, or the actions of civic groups who took part in the election campaign as opponents of Britain's belonging to the European Union. High Izbo, the law will be created. It would be good for this law to be under our surveillance. It would be even better if meetings were held in the Chamber of Commons in the process of creating this law. That's what the British imagination doesn't include, and perhaps what we're not able to understand. Just setting up such an ad hoc working group There's no way to hide it. It's not some methodical group. It is to meet the principle: a Pole wise before harm. I think that the very fact of the conversation cannot mean that we are violating autonomy. or the independence of the UK or even the autonomy of the British Parliament. Therefore, High Izbo, in the name of the Senate's fulfillment of its basic duty, in the name of good relations with Great Britain, in the name of preserving the interests of our great community, I am bringing this appeal to the High House to pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u210	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not hide that as I was, in general I am opposed to entering into the competences of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and conducting foreign policy by means of resolutions, because what we do with our heart, according to historical justice, with historical truth... Unfortunately, this stick often has two ends. And it may not help us to create foreign policy here and now and also for the future. That's what I'm saying. I have not exactly a clear opinion on this resolution, this appeal, that unlike Senator Rulewski, I am not sure that Mrs Theresa May's government will be the one who will lead the Great Britain out of the European community. There is a very strong opinion there... and a very strong resistance of Parliament as to whether the Prime Minister has a mandate to make such a decision alone, without a resolution of Parliament. Moreover, even those of the conservatives, the parliamentarians who followed Brexit, say very strongly that there is no mandate to negotiate only and only in her opinion and her will. And here we can be surprised, we can witness a lot of surprises. I think that this discussion and the problem that we have today should also make us very clear that we cannot, in the country, for internal use, have a one-dimensional discussion about economic migration, which, I would say, is knocking on us, to Europe. Unfortunately, very rarely in public discourse we consider that Polish immigration in at least 3 countries, and large countries I'm talking about Germany, England and Ireland... Polish immigrants are there either the first or the second largest group. Therefore, our statements here, in public space, clear statements against any presence of visitors from outside the borders of the European Union, must and will always return to us not the most pleasant boomerang in discussions about the situation of Poles in the West, regarding which we obviously suddenly have a completely different opinion than on the issues I have just mentioned concerning possible migration to Poland. I'd like us to be very interested in... And I will try to ensure that in the Senate such an in-depth discussion about not only the impact of Brexit on Poles on the islands, but in general the effects of a certain decomposition of the European Union in the context of our current foreign policy and the statements of both members of the government and party leaders... To reflect on how this discussion, which is mainly for internal policy, affects our ability to act within the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u212	Thank you very much for your interesting statement. I don't see any calls. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. [[Voice from the Chamber: Still legislative proposals.]] Yeah, yeah. I understand that Senator Rulewski's proposal is a legislative proposal. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marek Ziółkowski: Not at the moment. Thank you very much.]] In view of the fact that legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is sending a draft appeal to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. We proceed with the examination of point seven... [[Senator Rulewski has requested that the committee be appointed...]] Aha, Senator Jan Rulewski has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft appeal still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't hear any objections. Therefore, this proposal, Mr. Senator, we accept. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws determining the conditions for carrying out innovative activities. The text of the Act is contained in print No 294 and the report of the Commission In print No 294 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Wiatra, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the 3 committees that were sitting jointly, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I submit a report on the review of the Act amending certain laws laying down the conditions for conducting innovative activities contained in Senate printing No 294. I would like to say that this law is very much needed. Poland is trapped in the middle of development and at the same time social aspirations, due to low earnings, are large. There are also major social needs related to the programmes being implemented, or the 500+ programme, or the medicine programme for seventy-year-olds, and many other challenges. We know that the state of the budget depends on revenue. And these revenues depend on whether our economy is modern or not, whether the products that are produced by Polish companies are technologically advanced. At the same time, employees' salaries are higher, and taxes affecting the budget are higher. That is why the plan of Prime Minister Morawiecki and the strategy of Prime Minister Gowin were created. I have been thinking about the order of these two strategic plans, and although the Minister's science and strategy, Deputy Prime Minister Gowin, are closer to me because I am a scientist, a professor, but science is here to work largely for the economy. This is a certain novel, especially because of such a large dimension. Because this has of course happened, science has always worked with the economy, but the dimension of this cooperation proposed in these strategies is enormous. This is, of course, a pan-European trend, but implementing it under our conditions, rebuilding industry, reindustrialisation are of course major challenges. There is also a difficult operational programme in all of this, which has been negotiated by the previous government, with a number of difficulties imposed in part by the European Union. We hope that the current government's provisions of this programme will be realistic. But there are many other obstacles, I call them low-level bureaucracy, certain habits, certain expectations, also mentality and convenience of many people, which is why we need impulses, such injections that stimulate innovation. And I must say that such stimulating injections are developed by the Minister of Development, the Deputy Prime Minister of Morawiecki, the Plan for Responsible Development and the Strategy for Scientific Excellence of Modern Higher Education, partnership with business and social responsibility of science, developed by the Minister of Science, Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin. It is remarkable that for the first time in a very long time the innovation project is being developed and presented by the Minister of Science. I know the Ministry of Economy has been doing this so far. This is a good sign and I think this is the sign of this new, modern approach to these issues. The medium development trap is only one of the reasons for the need for intensive innovation. We are living in a time of extremely dynamic technological and technological development, building an information society and a knowledge-based economy. Other countries and other societies in this development gallop. We are, of course, developing, but others are galloping. You can use different numbers here. This was not mentioned at the committee meeting, so let me give these figures in my later speech. And now I return to the close report of the joint meeting of the three committees. What is the significance of this bill? The changes come down to the following issues: abolishing the tax on intellectual and industrial property imported by companies; extending the list of eligible costs to patent costs; increasing the amount of eligible costs for these accounts; extending the period of deduction for R &amp; D activities from 3 to 6 years... It is possible to reimburse the cash costs incurred for R &amp; D in the case of new start-ups, mainly start-ups, so that they do not have to wait for 6 years, only these funds can be recovered in the current year. It is also important to make the rules on defence research more flexible, particularly with regard to the availability of the results of these studies and the expropriation of researchers. We remember the storm around this topic: it turned out that the introduction of a cumbersome procedure for all studies is extremely interesting, but only 5% these studies are subject to commercialisation. The Act obliges only those who are interested in commercialisation to conduct this procedure, which will result in a significant reduction or even liquidation of the queue, a significant reduction of time... We know that in the case of innovation, time is a very important element. Remove the limitation of temporary commercialisation, eliminate many bureaucratic obstacles, I no longer want to talk about the number of special purpose companies, etc., because at this point it is impossible to say... The draft law aims to make the use of research infrastructure more flexible without the permission of the Minister of Treasury in the area of this property up to 1 year, and in the field of subject matter, i.e. for the user, up to 3 months, as well as to extend the period during which researchers have the right to participate in commercialisation benefits. It should be stressed that the bill solves many very important but relatively simple problems, mainly quantitative ones. This is extremely important because these are very difficult cases, which in the case of incorrect wording of the provisions of the law could result in various pathologies, a significant loss of tax revenue. This is a very important comment that matters more complex will be included in the new law, which will be presented next year and will enter into force in 2 years. This bill contains the provision that it will enter into force from 1 January, i.e. we see that it is worth all the instruments that I have exchanged, to run quickly, because they will certainly have specific effects. That is the opinion of the representatives of the economy. We ask the High House to support this law. It should also be noted that many of these solutions are mainly awarded to small and medium-sized companies. Large companies, due to their own, I would say, also manage their potential without these solutions, although they will benefit from these facilities. It must be said that there has been an extremely extensive public consultation. I've got a sejm print here. He is very thick and a significant part of this printing is the development of the results of the public consultation. This requirement is therefore met. After reading the results of these consultations... It can be said that this is not only a requirement, but also an opportunity, an opportunity to consult, but also to promote these solutions among stakeholders. We know that a good law is a law not only well written, well done, but also one that society accepts, which it wants to pursue. This was the dimension and meaning of these numerous public consultations. I would also like to stress that this law was unanimously passed in the Sejm. The result of the vote was: 434 votes in favour, 0 against, no abstentions. This is obviously not the first case when opposition clubs support the government project, but it is striking that no one abstained and no one voted against. I must say that a discussion took place at the meeting of the three joint committees. There were many guests at our meeting, mainly from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, but there were also social partners who had the opportunity to express themselves and present some comments. Many amendments have been tabled. One group was developed by the Legislative Bureau... I've tabled some of these amendments, not all of them. Senator Stanisławek, chairman of the economic committee, also tabled an amendment. The amendments drafted by Leviathan were tabled by Senator Augustyn, and the 2 amendments drawn up by KRASP were tabled by Senator Napieralski. These last 2 groups of amendments were extremely extensive and difficult. It must be said that their responsible clarification for the purpose of such a law takes a long time, and that their intricacies make it a much larger area for other solutions. You can't pull a piece, a single brick... I think that the conviction of the committee, as well as of the representatives of the government, was that these were solutions which, in view of this, could be solutions to the new law, a broader and major amendment in this regard. To conclude, I would like to say that three joint committees The Committee on Science, Education and Sport, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation A minority request has also been tabled, which contains 10 amendments. They're clustering in these two areas I've been talking about here. They were not supported by the majority because of their complexity and involvement in a much broader subject matter which should be the subject of the future Innovation Act. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u214	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur for minorities from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present proposals from the minority of committees. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Dear Senators! We have made proposals for amendments tabled by employers, because in our view they are also very important for the success of this project, which is to step up efforts to promote innovation. This law is indeed, first of all, developing those mechanisms which are already, in principle, not introducing new ones, but merely responding to the demands of entrepreneurs who were trying to understand why the solutions previously proposed, by previous governments, did not function sufficiently. And, of course, we all agreed that it was worth it. But I think you could go a step further, on some things really just a step further, and that these proposals are really reasonable. Mr. Senator, I've spoken to a representative of the Legislative Office, and any formal legal doubt is certainly to be explained, overcome, the amendments are reviewed in a legislative and orderly manner. The first group of amendments, two amendments, but relating to one case, concerns the possibility of experts, opinions and advisory services being drawn up by entities other than scientific bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have so many different kinds of think tanks, various private and public institutes without the character of a scientific entity, that it would really be a shame if this potential could not be used, especially if a comparable product could be obtained there. And what it is is an artificial procedure to stick only to scientific entities and entities, as if this, Dear Ministers, guarantees the right level. It's not necessarily the case. I've seen some of the professor's opinions, and, well, I wouldn't buy them. So this solution does not necessarily have to guarantee this appropriate level. Second thing. There are also two amendments to make the rules on which employees can be included in the R &amp; D group in the company more flexible. Well, so far it is that it must be the workers employed for this purpose. It's decided by a really very rigid record, I don't know if it's necessary. I think he's the one who's offering employers. And they, as we heard from the ministers, were telling the government other solutions... I don't think that's going to be taken into account. I think you have to believe you're here with us. And to you who presented the position of the Ministry of Finance. According to their words, when it comes to calculating certain costs which are the basis for deduction, the tax authorities It's almost like I'm going to quote that they're so efficient that they can judge such issues and question them if necessary. In the meantime, they can't do it here. Well, then you'd have to make up your mind about something. The same argument concerned another issue raised in order to add research and development tools to the eligible costs which can be included in the deductible costs. These are all kinds of auxiliary tripods, thermos, glass, needles, pipettes, etc., etc. Well, we get all the stuff that's input, everything that's at the end of the effect, and what's in the middle, we don't exactly get the weird guess, as if for some reason it's impossible to determine whether it serves, whether it serves to some extent or not. It seems to me that you should believe what you said from the Ministry of Finance, that you should evaluate and select it. The next amendments concern a very serious issue, namely whether entities operating in special economic zones will be able to benefit from the benefits of this law or not. Ladies and gentlemen, I think they should. The argument that there will be double benefits That's what I'd say. It's supposed to work on the plus side. Let's finally put not just any investments in these zones, but the best investments, the most expected ones, with innovative technologies. Let me put it another way, Minister. Let's put it the other way around. Are we now sending this signal: no, in special economic zones it's, God forbid, some innovative technology because you won't get that deduction anymore? Is that a good signal? I think it's bad. So I think it's an absolutely good idea... We have said that, in fact, it is not expected that there will be an extra budget for universities. Well, there would be synergy in this case, wouldn't there? One to the other. It would be a very strong incentive to have where there are special economic zones, and where the Council of Ministers thinks there should be more rapid development... After all, we do not want to grow zones of technological delay there, but on the contrary. It is in these areas that we would like to see exceptional progress in the best areas of development. Of course, there are EU rules on state aid, about the limits of this aid. It is in this law that there is, so there is no danger that someone will exceed these conditions and the possibility of permissible public aid. There's no such threat. And last but not least, it's a serious issue. Entrepreneurs propose to standardise the costs that can be deducted. Because in the draft law and in the front, they were divided into those which are owned by large, small and medium-sized enterprises. The latter was worth more, 50%. We tried to explain it at the committee meeting. It's actually been possible to deduct... Now it's going to be 50%, which is actually 150%. It should work. Let's hope it works, we all hope so. But why is it that large entrepreneurs, who are the only ones in total In fact, this was said at the committee's meeting during the discussion. In fact, they have the capacity to invest in innovation, do we not have a positive boost? It seems to me that differentiation is not justified, this rate should be uniform. Anyway, I think if you want to achieve a good result, And that's the intention. It is good to support those of whom we know that they will certainly benefit from these mechanisms, not the less, and others, for whom we do not know that this will work, more strongly. I hope that these arguments are taken into account. I also talked about the issue of paying some of the costs. There are interpretations of the Ministry of Finance, but these are individual interpretations. Therefore, they do not have universally applicable power. The introduction of these rules would allow companies to operate in a more secure environment than before. Therefore, I appeal to the High House for a positive attitude towards these not at all revolutionary proposals, because they go with the spirit of the whole presentation and in my opinion guaranteeing better implementation of its assumptions, which we as opposition senators thought were right. After all, we voted in favour of this project. I am convinced that it would be better if all these amendments or at least some of them were adopted, especially those concerning economic zones, thereby guaranteeing a greater success of the whole of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u216	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. I would like to warmly welcome the ministers: Minister Piotr Dardziński representing the Ministry of Science and Higher Education and Minister Leszek Skiba from the Ministry of Finance. Hello, ministers. The Minister for Science and Higher Education and the Minister for Finance were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do the ministers want to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Piotr Dardziński: Yes.]] You're welcome to the podium. Your vote, sir. Minister Piotr Dardziński, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I allow myself to speak on such a collegial behalf, because the presentation to which the Senate is concerned is also innovative in the form of It is rare that the project is presented by 2 ministries, in this case. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as the President mentioned earlier, the law is the result of the work of the innovation team, it is the result of the work of Undersecretaries of State, the work carried out on behalf of the Innovation Council. This is the achievement of the objectives set out in the exposé by the Prime Minister, the objectives which are also expected by entrepreneurs. The Act largely responds to the demands made by the environment, both entrepreneurs and scientists. Its main objective is to create an environment that is friendly to the rapid and efficient establishment of cooperation between entrepreneurs and researchers. As Senator Augustine mentioned, of course there would be more, there would probably be more... But then the work would last much longer, and we wanted to change quickly. Certainly the problems that have been raised during the committee's work and today, we will lean forward, working on the preparation of the second law, trying to find solutions that will be effective, but also safe and correct in the legislative way. Thanking all three committees and the President for their work and for the smooth procedure of this law, thanking you for the adoption of this law by the joint committees, I ask the High Senate to accept it with the changes resulting from the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u218	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I wanted to address these problems in a broader way, but after Senator Augustine's statement, referring to the opinion of the Legislative Office, I must say that the Legislative Office only speaks in terms of the correctness of the wording, and we are talking about the broader context of the substantive solutions. A few polemic thoughts. First of all, a collection of scientific units is an open set. And I think that this is actually one of our shortcomings, that these units we have maybe too few and that they may be too homogeneous in the area of their legal formula. It seems that, once these solutions have been introduced, even this amendment, there will be changes and this is evident. I think that the very form of the Operational Programme is the innovative development that a group of people from a small company who wants to set up a new research and development unit, from scratch, is reporting to Digital. They have an idea for a product, they need a business unit for it, and they do, but they want to build a science unit, and there's a competition, so they're gonna run in this contest. So here it is that there are think-tanks... Well, let's say science is supposed to be about science, and I think that's a good order. Saying that the professor's opinion is one way or another... Well, we're talking about a whole different thing. This isn't about the professor's opinion, although I'll defend the professors as one of them. We are talking about cooperation between science and the economy and we are talking about tax deductions. These are completely different serious matters. We talked about this at the committee meeting. I am surprised that the senator is returning to this discussion, which seems to have been exhaustive in this regard, i.e. it has made compelling arguments that, with regard to employment for this purpose, it is sufficient to include this in terms of the obligations of the employee and that is already sufficient. A representative of the finance minister or the Ministry of Finance said it was quite sufficient, so let's not create any baroque records in the bill if it can be carried out in a simpler way. We discussed in this House the re-bureaucratisation of higher education. I think that this change in mentality in such a way that we build trust, we limit enumerative rules, because it's... This will not build an innovative country, an innovative economy. Tools. Well, there's trouble with the tools, because the costs are low, and the assignment is relatively virtual. These are difficult things. Then... That's the point. Also the security of both sides, i.e. the business representative, and the controller who comes and has trouble. So I think the idea of the authors of the bill was to make it clear... that we would agree to higher thresholds, but just so it's clear, it doesn't build a number of areas that can be treated discretionaryly. Economic zones. We were talking about summing up bonuses. I'm sorry to say so colloquially. It is not a good habit, especially since we are talking here about a significant reduction in revenue to the state budget, and at the same time we would like to increase spending on science. So here we know that it can't be reconciled. The senator in his last thought, which I noted, was talking about equalizing small, medium and large enterprises. Well, at the committee meeting, I was quoting this example. As part of the Operational Programme, innovative development, which I am interested in, because it is extremely important for scientists, is to spend EUR 6 billion. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. But it turns out that one of the large Polish companies spends PLN 6 billion on investments in the next few years. So if this is now 6 billion times 150% ... Mr. Senator, let's measure... I know I can't convince you of that, because I talked about it at the committee meeting, but I expected you to take the floor here and I have concrete figures to quote. In Poland small enterprises, i.e. the number of employees from 10 to 49... Only 15% These companies have introduced innovations. In medium-sized companies, with between 50 and 249 employees, only 34%, and in large companies, more than 249 employees, already 62%, it is 4 times more than in small companies. At the same time with our German neighbour small companies, from 10 to 49 employees, 68% , means more than four times more than in Poland. So I think that's an argument. But I would like to return to the main thread of my reflections, which I already mentioned in my previous speech, namely the building of an information society and a knowledge-based economy. We live at an extremely dynamic time when the world is divided into three economic zones: those who will produce and process knowledge-based and knowledge-based economy, those who will be involved in industrial production and those who will be involved in agriculture and mineral mining. If we don't make a civilization leap today, unfortunately, this first area will be unavailable to us because this distance is increasing, it increases every month. And we have many successes, such as Polish IT specialists, materialists, doctors, pharmacists. We have really many, many achievements. We have many small, unique companies. Of course, it starts with basic conditions, which is good education in a good high school. Good elementary school, good high school, that's basic. Colleges can't do miracles if candidates don't have... There's no way to make up for it. I was talking to six-year-olds about the fact that a first-class child builds a structure of knowledge, a certain order of thinking, whether it's a humanist, whether it's a physicist or some other technician. I even said then that a computer scientist who didn't learn history is a worse computer scientist, and a historian who didn't learn physics is a worse historian. And that's the truth. It's about non-standard thinking. Our plumber specialists either to the professor or vice versa, which is why they're so valuable in the world. and the United Kingdom, Ireland, and the United States That they have a wider spectrum of education, a wider spectrum of thinking and some interdisciplinaryness to some extent. That's why you have to see it all. You can use different numbers and statistics. You can enjoy your growth Because this growth is, over the past 26, 27 years, this growth is, you can even say, it is impressive, but if you compare it with others, you can see that we are running away from the world. We're running away from the world. Ladies and gentlemen, time is short, and these numbers are a lot. Various R &amp; D funding can be quoted as percentage of GDP, R &amp; D expenditure. But that's more or less what we know, because we talked about it over budgets. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, So in Finland, 20 times as much as in Poland. Second indicator: number of R &amp; D employees per 1000 employees: Poland 3.9, Japan 10, Finland 16, Denmark 10, etc. Next statistics, ladies and gentlemen, the number of applications for inventions: Poland - 65, Germany - 599 per million inhabitants. Next statistics, the share of high-tech products in total exports: Poland 3 in 2007, currently 4.3, but Germany 13, i.e. four times more, Finland 18, i.e. more than five times more. Next statistics, service companies. Small, medium and large enterprises are also very weak in innovation. Such statistics for reflection under the Law on Higher Education, Law 2.0. Because there are different discussions. I listen in the academic community to the discussion of what percentage of students should be. So, ladies and gentlemen, in Poland in 2000 we had 11% people with a higher education age of 25 and 64. In 2009, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the That's the only statistics I've got. That was 21%. But Finland, for example, has 37%, twice as much. [[Time.]] Maybe another minute and a half to end it. I'm dropping the stats. And there's still some interesting numbers here. And now it's over. Please, in the strategy of Prime Minister Gowin, on the front page, there are 4 figures: Poland is twenty-fourth in the world in terms of GDP, thirty-seventh in terms of R &amp; D expenditure to GDP, and already twenty in terms of scientific publications and thirty-eight in the Shanghai ranking. At least three, four hundred... So we see that these sums, this integration is pretty good. That's why less bureaucracy, fewer other low-level obstacles, a change in mentality, a social culture... Because innovation is a risk. And the point is that these risks are only financial when it comes to the economy. 'Cause you can't avoid it. A bureaucratic, legal and other risks I want them to be smaller. Law and pragmatism. It is often the case that we have a good law, and pragmatism is fatal. We're betting on honesty, we're reducing obstacles. A civilization leap must be made. This jump is necessary. Budget expenditure is important, but we expect the funding of science to increase significantly, that this financial injection we are thinking about must translate into a two- or three-fold increase in funding of science if we are to do all this. And the effectiveness of these investments in this revision, but also in the new Innovation Act... I'm sure they'll have a huge effect. And that is what I wish not only for the government, but also for our entire society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u220	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. Senator, the Professor has incredibly encouraged my well-being with his speech. For I am a professor of the university in Joensuu, Finland, and only there, unfortunately, I use aid for research, because in the country I belong to an excluded group. Excluded by law, in a very clever way, in a large, perhaps 130-page bill... There, all of this is cleverly arranged so that a group of scientists cannot in practice be financed in the field of scientific research. I was just harassing the minister at the committee meeting... It's hard enough anyway, but I think it's been explained where the dog is buried. First of all, only about 80% of researchers in Poland are actually trained to apply for research aid. Rest No, no, no, no, We have to look somewhere else. And because of that, the results go somewhere else. I have very good publications and patents in Finland. It's kind of sad. But they're fantastic, so to speak, setting up science organizationally. I have all the help I can get when I get there. And when I start looking for help here, I have so many difficulties that I'm quitting. And that's something that explains Finland. As far as the matter of these relations, which the Professor provided regarding Germany and Poland, I would say Forgive me, perhaps, the excess of malice. I would advise German scientists to come to us, enter into bureaucratic modes, which, I say, hold on to science, and will probably be the same result as we have. We're the same people. How we're gonna get anywhere else In terms of intellectual capacity. Or better? It's just that the rest of us are behind us. He owes us a lot. And numerically... About 30% of the funding allocated to research goes to the administration. What's a beautiful catch? Oh, very simple. In fact, we do not have scientific research, but institutions do. It's in the last law on higher education. It's so cool it says you really need an interpreter to read it from this bill. And without an institution, there's no way to file an application. You can try, of course, the letter will accept, but that will be the end of it. And that's why there's one more string: they have to be institutions that have some huge experience, in doing what, it's hard to say, but huge experience. And another set of barriers. If we work in such an institution, well, we can do something there, just to write a report, and we have a grant settlement. 'Cause who's doing it? Oh, that's what a colleague from a neighboring institution does. And that's where the results come from. These results aren't because we're too late. No, we're not behind anything, we just have huge barriers to scientific work, inventive work, etc. I'm trying to show you that on my own example, I'm trying to present a patent that I'm looking at for hundreds of millions for the state, and even billions can be achieved. But what does it turn out to be? I don't have a clue to get certain devices. I've got the labs. Because I have no grant, the institution is not on the so-called list. qualified research institutions. Then I'll have to go to Finland again. I'll give them the idea. And there's a few more things like that... You could sum it up. is short: bureaucracy of research and monopolization. That's what's ruining the research market for us. We'd be as high as Germany, not lower. There's no problem here. People go abroad and that's where they make patents, where the administration helps them. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two names, two Polish inventions. The first is fiber optics. In fact, for the first time, but in terrible technology, they functioned in the last American bombers during the last war, but these practically built, such as today, quartz or other crystals, functioned for the first time in Lublin, combining 2 institutions. It was made by people who didn't get a penny for it. Unfortunately, they couldn't patent, because it wasn't through an institution... etc., etc. It's gone. The second is what we have the latest news about: graphene. This is the work of Polish scientists. What's the score? He's gone to hell. They already make it somewhere else because it wasn't for that 30%. No one to make sure that we patent it quickly, and that's the right way to patent it, so that we can make money from it. We're leaking these things anyway. Now imagine that Einstein appears in this world of ours. So? Even through the first threshold of an institution dealing with inventions and research, it would not be allowed to go through because it did not work in any great institution that has a huge history of research. Or maybe it would only belong to those less than 20% who don't actually have the authority to carry out scientific research. And then what? Ana Einstein would go, just like he did for other reasons, to the States. And that's the sad stuff. The great thing is, we have labs. Nobody say anything, no one's trying to say we don't have any labs. Universities, scientific institutes have made fantastic use of the last time we had access to EU funds. They build wonderful labs, come to us from abroad and admire these labs. Money. The professor was talking about it, and I dare say otherwise. Given our place in the ranking, when it comes to invention, it's big money and even very big money. But there are no results. What are the results? It's just that one of them is gonna write an opinion and everything goes into the closet. I personally know the case of an invention made for the 17th time, where the product was made probably for 7.5 million, and after the show it was hidden in a shed. How's that? So what? And wonderfully, the opinion is written. I can point out, of course I can, but that's a lot. People are, we're still training really well, here you can't fight in your chest and despite many reforms, endless... I am very pleased to hear from Prime Minister Gowin's last statement that it is time for some peace of mind with the reforms at universities, because sometimes we can no longer understand where we are, what to follow, what to write... [[Senator Kazimierz Wind: In the Senate we have...]] That's right, that's good. So that's pretty much what it looks like. We also lack a legal framework conducive to innovation. You could keep it going, but that's it. I've taken the liberty of taking some ups and downs, maybe, but I personally come across this on a daily basis, and I could probably give a lecture on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u222	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u223	Minister! Gentlemen of the Senators! Mr. Marshal! In fact, you could continue this thought of Senator Hare and start with the fact that, according to the justification for the act, entrepreneurs asked what is preventing the application of research, the development of innovative technologies, in more than 70% are responsible: bureaucracy. It is worth considering, for example, in the context of these amendments, which I propose, from which it comes. She comes from a lack of trust. One more paper, one more difficulty, one more opinion, one more proof, one more bill, just in case. We're really good at this. One EU project carried out by the charity that I am running is carried out across Europe. I went to see how the English did it. The agreement was 4 pages, it was an agreement on the implementation of the EU project. With us it is between 80 and 90 pages, each of which of course must be signed, so that the weapon, God, someone didn't replace something, etc. In fact, from this culture of mistrust, there is also opposition to these minor amendments that are supposed to loosen up a bit and bet that if someone is doing something wrong, let's catch them and punish them. But no. We're moving in because just in case, 'cause everybody's... Or what? Are they all dishonest? And it seems to me that it is absolutely necessary to agree with senator hare, and with the minister, of course, that it must be the beginning of change, that it is absolutely impossible to stop at this. But it's okay, and there's no reason to delay what's obvious, negotiated, agreed. Let's bring it in. And we must praise for that, and also for the fact that in this atmosphere of political distrust, this is just an example of how we can continue to do what is good. Each new team has even a duty to go further, to develop in every area, and to follow them even further. So we are waiting for the result of further work. Believe me, I'm shocked by this lack of trust, too, but I don't trust that these things will be taken into account in the next stage. First of all, because these are little things that are perfectly compatible with those provisions that are now being proposed, and I am, for example. I can't imagine how they could be in the next stage, as autonomous, presented... Not really. And secondly, because I just know that these brakes are very difficult to slow down with us because they're in our heads. Yet these intellectual property requires freedom, freedom of thought, freedom of action, freedom of search. We've got a problem with that. I would like to say, by quoting the Professor: let us bet on honesty and let us bet on difficulties, let us bet on honesty, and let us not presume that someone is dishonest. And in the end, all I have is this reflection that sounded, and I was even going to present it as a question, but the Minister warned me and calmed me at the same time: innovation is not just technology. That's one thing. Not only in those traditional industries we know, but also in this white economy, especially in medicine, but also in care. If we're not going to spend billions, new technologies need to go in there to give families peace and safety to disabled seniors. It's gonna be worth it, it's gonna be worth it. And this is also organisational innovation, the introduction of new instruments, as the Minister mentioned in the committee, particularly with regard to social assistance homes, but in general as regards the regulation of long-term care, this is an open matter. We could carry out projects that would create a whole new branch of work in Poland, including innovative components, which are an important branch of the white economy, i.e. the market for caring services. Entrepreneurs are very interested in this, and they would like to get into it as they do in the West, in many countries. This can be done by making high demands, of course, that there should not be such situations as recently in private DPS, which must be closed because they do not respect Polish law and no standards. There shouldn't be indulgence for dishonesty here. You have to fight dishonesty and bet on honest. Finally, I would like to say that we cannot be illusioned that the effect will be achieved without funding. They may be becoming more and more decent, but I think it's important to believe what the Professor said that we're far from other countries. And, of course, the point is that these measures should be reasonably spent. But I think it's growing in all of us that if we're gonna catch up with the world, catch up, be leaders, have our brands, there's no other way to go than to develop the innovation sector. This law serves this purpose and it must certainly be recommended to the Senate for immediate adoption, of course, preferably with amendments which I call for understanding.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u224	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Professor Stanisławek. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u225	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Gentlemen and ladies! I would like to thank my previous speakers for presenting the validity of the bill quite comprehensively. I am glad that the law fits into the general trend of the policy that we are pursuing, i.e. the policy of lifting Poland out of marasm and average growth, the policy of moving to offensive and faster development. Without the innovative package that we will be adopting at the moment, this cannot be done. I am pleased that the Gowin plan, which concerns not only innovation, but also many of the socially consulted changes, is about the Higher Education Act, which translates into an increase in the trust of scientists, science workers to the rulers, the ministry and ministers. This is extremely important. An increase in trust is caused by a discussion that takes place between the social side and the governing party. From this discussion comes the law, which is very well received by all environments. It is well accepted by the scientific community, because the principle of acquiring property rights is changing not only by individual inventors but also by the grammar. This is commercialization, this is what everyone's been waiting for. The point is that you can commercialize science, not just work for science itself. Working for science itself is extremely important because it develops science, but it does not develop us economically and industrially. The transition to commercialization, which we all care about, in principle from the idea to industry, as it used to be... I hope this bill will make it much easier. At the moment, we're spending about 0.9% on R &amp; D. GDP. We very much hope that, after the bill has been passed, this figure will increase to about 1.7%. GDP. I would like to stress that the broad public consultation resulted in a very good result of the vote in the Sejm. The bill was voted unanimously, without any vote of objection. I hope it's the same in the Senate. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u226	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to begin by thanking the President, Senator Stanisławek, for his words about increasing confidence. Speaking of the vote in the Sejm, as well as of the extremely extensive public consultation, I would also like to stress that this is all done in the framework of a good consensus. So thank you so much for those words. Ladies and gentlemen, I have such additional comments. Senator Zając was talking here about finance, money. I will say a little anecdotal that Poland is in third place in the world when it comes to the cost of obtaining patents, i.e. the expenditure on learning divided by the number of patents gives us third place in the world. Giving this information to the public is extremely dangerous, and it happened to me that when I said it in front of a certain auditorium, someone came forward and said, "Let's reduce the funding of science, we'll be in the first place." So you have to be very careful with that. I'd like to give you the last numbers, but there was no time before, but I didn't have glasses either, and these are little numbers... Although I'm going to start by saying this is a little bit different than the research you used, Senator Augustine, which I'm a little surprised about, but, as you can see, that's the way it is with the research. I want to emphasise once again... Because the senator was talking about these minority amendments, that they're against bureaucracy, and so on. Well, Mr Senator, I, speaking of small and medium-sized enterprises, clearly quoted the figures: innovation in small companies is 15% in Poland. , in medium-sized companies 34%, and in large companies 62% while in other countries, in Germany, small companies have 68% Innovation and average share of 78% . So it's in the case of small companies over four times... And you, both on the grounds of minority proposals and in your speech already in the discussion, called for small and large companies to be levelled. Well, I'm trying to say in capital letters that's not what this is about. Now, coming back to these last numbers, I'm going to say this: these statistics that I would like to give now are... at least the first number is very nice to our ministers and the government, and the next numbers are kind of another task and to the Ministry of Science, and to the Ministry of Development, and to the Ministry of Finance. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these studies, which I would like to talk about now, are research carried out among companies, Mr. Senator. Innovative companies were asked what obstacles they had, what factors would increase innovation. Well, 46.1% says: tax relief related to the implementation of innovation. So that you can see that this bill that we are proceeding is extremely important and that this is the most appropriate step. For the next answers there is no longer such a high percentage, but 33.9% says: simplifying access to the Structural Funds. So you can see what I'm saying about POIR fits in here. It's harder because it goes beyond Poland, and it's harder because we don't know... Well, maybe the European Union will like us more, maybe it will. Simplifying access to funds directly obtained from the European Union 33.1%. And a fourth number, specifically addressed to the Minister of Finance, Minister. Access to credit on preferential terms • 32,2% innovative companies. Then there are three more numbers, they are already lower: removing barriers to access to non-credit sources of financing for innovative projects 13.1% , the ease of obtaining funding for projects carried out jointly with R &amp; D centres 10,6%, tax reliefs related to the start of own R &amp; D studies, 8.6%. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the numbers that... Well, I have to say, when I read about these 46% You can actually see that we're going in the right direction. That is why I wish ministers the strength to implement the innovations and instruments that support them. I wish for these actions the support that took place in the vote in the Sejm. Like the senator, I hope the Senate will vote as well as I hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u228	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Krystian Probier... [[Senator ad vocem...]] Senator Hare? [[If you don't mind, just ad vocem.]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u229	Mr. Senator, to raise these patent charges, it's enough to reduce the number of patents. [[Yeah, that's what they taught me in elementary school.]] [[Ad vocem yet, Mrs. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u230	Now, right? [[Yes.]] Mr. Senator, it's just a moment... You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u231	Professor so here with a slight doubt he said that perhaps it was possible to get such an impression. I don't know where I got that number. Well, 71% as reported in the study "Perspective 2020'. The R &amp; D activities of companies in Poland indicated that the most important thing for them is to reduce administrative difficulties.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u232	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Krystian Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, I would also like to join these thanks to the creators of the bill. From the general view and from what has been said here and at the committee's meeting, one can get the impression that this law can pay off to scientists. It could be worth it. And that's the most important thing. Scientists, apart from the fact that they solve various problems, can also count. And it is a great credit that this bill will come into force in its form. I would like to make such a small remark about Professor Wind's statement. Because he divided the departments, the areas of our lives, the economy based on knowledge, as well as other economies, as if ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The other economies were not based on knowledge. Well, every economy has to be based on knowledge, otherwise it wouldn't have had a chance. I am thinking, above all, of the mining economy, agriculture. And so far, even the computer is made of matter. Besides, we consume material things every day. For now, maybe it'll be different in the future. I have worked at the university for 40 years, over 40 years of various situations I have passed, various laws, to many laws I have added my small pennies to, and I must say that also for the previous system It was called rationalization back then. or were some improvement projects. And I would like to warn all the creators of this present law that the world of science will be able to fit very well into the framework of this law. And then there were rationalizational ideas, and at most... well, in most cases these inventions could have gone. They're mostly so-called. shelves, powered a bunch of Ensigns. Yeah, well, that's what I'm warning you about. And perhaps soon we will need to correct this bill a little bit, and that is because, as such a well-known saying says, the Pole can. And he can fit into this system. And in conclusion, I would call it, however, to order an expert opinion from the professor, Senator. I'd rather. Maybe not everyone's, but I'd prefer that. And I would join the opinion that only in these scientific units... 'Cause when I was just passing by, I saw a unit like this. Unscientific for the time being, but who knows what's going to happen was a hairdresser, and the bet was called an institute. And the point is, I don't want to be able to do that, that... well, I wouldn't want to get any expertise from this hairdressing institute. Thank you very much. [[Depends...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u234	Thank you, Senator. [[Well, that's innovation.]] [[How's he gonna figure out how to do my hair?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm informing you that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? That's it. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would also like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Offices and Tax Chambers and the Act on the Social Insurance System. The text of the Act is contained in print No 299 and the committee's report in print No 299 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance unanimously approved the draft law on amending the Law on tax offices and tax chambers and the Act on the social security system. The bill comes from the Parliamentary submission, which was adopted by the Sejm on 6 October at the twenty-seventh meeting of the Polish Sejm. The purpose of this submission is to provide a legal basis for the exchange of data of payers and taxpayers between the Social Insurance Institution and the Ministry of Finance. The changes that have been made will allow it to be symmetrically... The Social Insurance Institution will be able to collect data from the tax authorities, and the tax authorities from the Social Insurance Institution in order to create various types, can be said in general... It is about different analyses and reports. The Act is expected to enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal. The Legislative Office submitted six proposals for amendments to this bill, but representatives of the Ministry of Finance had a negative opinion on all these proposals. The Commission accepted the position of the Ministry of Finance and, as I said, the draft law was unanimously adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u236	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. The draft law was introduced by Members. We have Minister Marian Banaś with us today, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? Please, Minister, please come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Ministry of Finance, I would like to say that the Ministry of Finance has fully supported this bill from the outset. We believe that these changes are necessary due to the fact that until now it was not possible to exchange aggregate information both with regard to data from the Social Security Office and data from the Ministry of Finance. This could have caused, for sure, that due to certain irregularities, statistical errors affecting the financial consequences... Budget losses could have been relatively high, which is why we are in favour of the bill coming into force as soon as possible. By exchanging this information, we will analyse the data much better, which will ensure that we secure the budget against possible losses. Thank you very much and I ask for the full support of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u238	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next item on the agenda... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mrs. Marshal, take a break because we can't get through to the President. He was and...]] I see. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a 10-minute recess by 8:00 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 50 to 19 minutes 57]] I'm extending the recess until 8:05 p.m. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 57 to 20 minutes 06]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2015. I would like to welcome the President of the National Judicial Council, Mr Dariusz Zawistowski, present at the Senate meeting. Hello, sir. Hello, sir. The text of the information is provided in print No 190. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the information submitted at its meeting on 5 July 2016 and informed the Senate Marshal. I ask President Dariusz Zawistowski to speak and present the information. Sir, I'd like you to come down here to the podium. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u239	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for inviting me to speak at the Senate meeting. I would like to briefly inform you that this information from the activities of the National Judicial Council was written in May and includes quite detailed information about the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2015. It seems to me that it would be appropriate, in this connection, to highlight only in a short way the most important issues that the National Judicial Council has dealt with, so I will try to put these issues in a more synthetic form than in the report. First of all, I would like to stress that the National Judicial Council is a body which is constitutionally empowered to ensure the independence of the courts and independence of judges, and as a state body must act in accordance with the principle of legalism, i.e. within such limits as are the result of the law. Here the basic regulation, as we remember, is contained in the Constitution. Later these rules or as if the principle itself were developed in the Act on the National Judicial Council. These provisions have not changed for many years, so in 2015. The National Judicial Council dealt with practically the same issues as in previous years. I would also like to remind you here that the National Council of Courts is a collegial body, not just made up of judges, so it is not an organ of the judiciary. The composition of the National Judicial Council, which includes most judges, but also parliamentarians and the President's representative, makes it even theoretically difficult to qualify, which is actually an organ. But it seems to me that this is not the most important thing, because the composition of the National Council of Courts indicates that all representatives of different authorities should work together for the sake of the independence of the judiciary. I would like to stress that the Council's actions show that all members of the Council, regardless of how they found themselves in the Council. They seem to understand their role well and actively participate in the work of the Council. At 25 members usually attend the meeting about 20, so attendance is certainly very good. The fact that the National Judicial Council is a collegial body and consists of members who do not participate professionally in the Council, only normally perform their functions outside the Council because the judges rule After all, parliamentarians are not fired from work either. It is a bit difficult for us to function, but we are trying to organize the work of the council so that as many members as possible can attend meetings of the council. We already have one. the timetable drawn up for the next year so that certain activities can be planned in advance. Except that this composition of the council and the fact that most judges are from outside Warsaw, of course it also makes it difficult for us to function when we have a short time to take a stand. Yes, unfortunately, it is quite often in the case of the opinion of acts which are presented to the National Judicial Council for opinion. Sometimes there is an organisational problem with keeping the deadline that has been set for drawing up an opinion, but we try to do it so that these opinions are actually drawn up. According to the statistical information provided, last year's National Judicial Council held 17 plenary meetings, which lasted a total of 57 days. So statistically, there was more than one meeting a month. Indeed, we are trying to organize the work so that these tasks, which are before the council, do not specifically delay the completion of the procedures. The primary task of the National Judicial Council is to present candidates to the President for judicial positions. We consider this task a priority. We want to make sure that this process, the so-called. Nominating judges, didn't last very long. According to the statistics you have before you, last year the National Council of the Court of Justice presented more than 500 requests for the appointment of judges. That means that at the time when the judge was fired... Well, these 500 places were actually uninsured, which is a pretty serious number on a yearly basis. So it's important that this nomination process doesn't last very long. And here I can say that those organisational activities which were undertaken by the National Judicial Council and the way in which candidates for vacant posts were submitted, taking into account the electronic system, have resulted in a rather substantial reduction in the average period of examination of one application by the National Judicial Council. I will say that, for example, in 2014 this average period was 80.6 days and in 2015 65.97. So here progress is quite clear. He follows, among others. Also because we have fewer calls. I mean, I would like to make it clear that the number of candidates who applied in the 2015 competitions was higher than in 2014, but the number of applications was lower. This may be quite difficult to explain at first glance, but the point is that, according to the old rules, it was possible to submit your candidacy repeatedly in various competitions which took place in parallel, and according to the amended rules it is possible only in one competition until the end of it. This year too, but especially last year we had such a mixed situation that the competitions were conducted according to old and new regulations. This ultimately led to the fact that the number of applications was much higher than the number of candidates. And in these competitions there were about 2 000 candidates, which is a relatively large number. It can also be stressed that the National Judicial Council is constantly making sure that personal hearings of these candidates take place. We mean that the judges should be appointed people who best meet the prognosis that they will be good judges. It is often the case that statistical information or information contained in the candidates' personal files does not yet give sufficient grounds to select one of the candidates. It often happens that these candidacies are e.g. comparable. Then we try to have more interviews with the candidates. Statistical data show that the number of people with whom the National Council talks either directly at the nomination stage or using a telebim, because we have this technical possibility, is clearly increasing. For example, in 2014 there were talks with 223 people, and in 2015 there were 287 people. You can see there's an increase here. I would like to stress that the nomination process is so complicated that it all lasts about a year or so in the end. It is about the time from the announcement of a free court to the end of the procedure before the national council. This procedure consists of 2 stages. The first stage takes place before the courts. Where candidates apply, the candidates shall be evaluated and then the vote of the Assembly of Judges shall be taken. This stage lasts the longest. As I have already said, the proceedings before the National Judicial Council take approximately 2 months, and this is relatively short for the entire term of the nomination proceedings. In the proceedings before the council... this procedure is in turn a 2-step procedure. During the first period, teams shall be appointed for such preliminary evaluation of candidates, and then these teams shall consult each candidate in plenary. It takes a lot of time, which is why these meetings last at least a whole week, they're once a month. To illustrate how it looks, I can say that in 2015 nearly 500 teams were set up. They do not only evaluate candidates for free judicial positions, but also present preliminary opinions on, for example, legal acts which are subsequently assessed by the National Courts Board in the form of resolutions. As regards the opinion of acts which are subject to the assessment of the National Judicial Council in accordance with the rules, as regards matters relating to the independence of courts and the independence of judges. There were relatively many of them. In 2015, the Council assessed a total of over 200 draft normative acts, including 95 draft laws. We are also trying to be honest about these issues. We use only our own strength, that is to say, the members of the council do so according to their respective competences. We have among our members specialists in various areas of law, so it seems that these opinions are at a relatively good level. Like I said, there's two problems here. One is related to the sometimes complex matter of the legislation that we are considering, and the other problem is that we usually have very little time. We have repeatedly asked that the time indicated to us take into account the way the Council works, its collegial nature and the fact that the Council does not work continuously, but that it gathers at meetings every once in a while. Proceedings to which the National Judicial Council attaches great attention This is also due to the provisions It concerns the ethical behaviour of judges. It's about disciplinary proceedings against judges. Let me remind you that the National Judicial Council has adopted a code of ethics for judges. We attach great importance to these issues. We have a permanent ethics committee to which all complaints are brought, the subject matter of which concerns the ethical conduct of judges. In some cases, we make our own proposals to the ethics committee. For example, we have recently had this kind of situation, that there has been a statute of limitations on the judge's disciplinary misconduct and that the judge could not be punished. And in a situation where the conviction of the members of the council was that the behaviour of the judge was unethical, we sent such information to the ethics committee to take a stand in this regard. With regard to the number of disciplinary proceedings against judges that are taking place, it has not changed specifically in recent years. There are about 70 and 80 disciplinary actions in which disciplinary decisions have taken place. Given that there are more than 10,000 judges in Poland, it can be said that such cases are not very successful. With regard to the way in which the National Court of Justice is dealt with in disciplinary matters, it appears that any disciplinary decision which has been given by a disciplinary court is referred to in plenary of the Council. If the Council has any doubts, it shall decide whether to avail itself of the possibility of appeal against the judgment of the disciplinary court. The National Judicial Council may make use of this possibility by law and use it in cases where it appears that the decisions are not correct. In 2014, the Council challenged 8 resolutions in favour of and 7 against the judge. In 2015, 12 resolutions were contested in favour of and 10 against the accused judges. It could be said that the statistics here show that the Council is quite rigorous in assessing the behaviour of judges, for example. compromises the principle of ethical conduct or is linked to some gross violation of the law. With regard to the substantive quality of the resolutions adopted by the National Judicial Council, it could be said that in personal matters... I told you that about 500 candidates were nominated in the nomination proceedings. The degree of challenge of these resolutions is relatively small. It's a little over 1%. As regards the proceedings which are pending before the Supreme Court as a result of the appeal against the resolutions, the situation also looks good here. In 2015, the Supreme Court issued 72 judgments in such cases • handed over 6 resolutions for re-examination and dismissed 43 appeals. In part, they have been decommitted. It follows that the degree of challenge of these resolutions is ultimately not large. The vast majority of appeals were not taken into account from those which were contested. Maybe I can explain that this is quite important in the nomination procedure and affects the transparency of the procedure. The point is that any resolution on personal matters taken by the National Judicial Council may be challenged by the Supreme Court. The provisions on cassation proceedings apply accordingly, and there is a possibility of judicial review of the validity of the resolutions adopted by the National Courts Council. The process itself of appointing judges also seems quite transparent. It seems that the announcements of vacant seats in courts are being made public. All candidates who meet the statutory criteria may make themselves known. Later proceedings before the Council are quite clear and are based on certain rules. So it seems that the nomination process, when it comes to the process of appointing judges, looks pretty good. The issue which appears to be important for the functioning of the National Judicial Council is also the problem of bringing judges to rest. Statistics show that in recent years the Council has adopted about 30 such resolutions annually. This is the number of judges who, prior to reaching the retirement age, had been transferred to the resting state by the National Judicial Council. It is, in general, actually about cases of serious illness among judges. Unfortunately, we had many such cases when the National Judicial Council had not yet adopted a resolution on the transfer of the judge to a resting state. In the case of severe diseases, there have been such situations as these, that this resolution could not be adopted. Here it actually seems procedurally that the expert's opinion is crucial. If it shows that the judge's health does not allow him to remain in office, that is the basic criterion that determines that the judge is being retiring. Well, in many cases, when there are doubts, the National Judicial Council has yet another opinion to expert doctors so that these issues can be properly clarified. With regard to the substantive quality of resolutions in this respect, the appeals against those resolutions of the National Courts Council indicate that these decisions are generally accepted and seem appropriate. There are quite a number of complaints and requests to the National Judicial Council. Last year it was about 2 000 complaints and requests. Some of them do not belong to the board. Those which are complaints about the conduct of judicial proceedings, and this is a large part of these complaints, shall be forwarded, in accordance with the rules, to the Presidents of the competent courts. Some of these complaints concern more general issues. Anyway, we have a special complaint and motion committee. These complaints, which belong to the competence of the Board, are addressed to the committee, the teams are appointed, and the board, in substance, refers to these complaints. It can also be emphasized here that the Council has the power to commission visits and vetting. There were several such resolutions to carry out the vetting last year. Among other things, the National Judicial Council carried out a mirror at the District Court in Nisko. For the information of the senators, it was so important that it was a media-known case when the parents were taken away by the custody court and there were allegations that the parents had been deprived of parental authority because of, as the media presented, poverty. This visit did not confirm these allegations. Of course, there was a situation that this family had financial problems, but it wasn't the only reason. There was a whole set of circumstances that indicated that the child's well-being would be threatened if in this case it remained with the parents. Of course, these are very delicate and very difficult things in life. In any event, on the basis of those documents at the disposal of the National Judicial Council and which it has examined, it can be said that the court has not made at least some gross or obvious error by issuing such a decision. As far as other issues that appear to be less important are concerned, I can also say that the National Judicial Council grants awards to judges who are worthy of justice. These are, above all, judges-- these decorations are awarded primarily at the request of the relevant colleges of the courts. Last year, the council awarded 44 judges with such medals. These are generally judges who go to rest and have e.g. 35 or 40 years of service, or even more, and those of a blameless nature. There is no automation here, because the second so many proposals, practically, have not been taken into account by the National Judicial Council, because here we apply quite strict criteria as to whether these decorations are to be awarded. The National Judicial Council is also a member and founder of the European Judicial Council Network, and therefore also operates internationally. We have contacts with judges from all over Europe. The expression that this activity of the council was appreciated is, among other things. the fact that this year the National Judicial Council held such a conference for European judges as its host. So we're pretty active in this field, too. It is important here that the European Network of Judicial Councils also aims to ensure the independence of the courts, the independence of judges and to adopt such resolutions, which are later very helpful in the functioning of the judiciary, because it draws attention to a number of issues which are particularly important for the proper reception of the judiciary. E.g. The fact that the independence of the judiciary is a very important issue, but, as a rule, it is against the responsibility of the courts, so it points out that it is not only possible to talk about the independence of the courts, because when courts are independent, they must also be accountable to society. Such assessments are so valuable that these are assessments of judicial councils from countries that have far more experience in terms of democracy than we do. It seems valuable that we can benefit from such experiences. Well, maybe that's it in a nutshell. If necessary, I will, of course, try to supplement this information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u240	Thank you very much. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr Dariusz Zawistowski questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the National Judicial Council Dariusz Zawistowski: Thank you, Mrs Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u241	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Judge of the Supreme Court! First of all, I would like to say that I did not ask questions, because this would be part of the question to myself, because by the end of 2015, I had the privilege of being a member of the Senate's National Judicial Council. It took eight years. Therefore, I have experience, an opportunity to make an assessment, and at the same time already some distance, because almost a year has passed since I stopped being a member of the council. Of course, the subject of our attention is information from activities for 2015, so I did not ask questions about the current situation. As I said, this is not the subject of today's information. I will start by saying that I would like to express my great appreciation for the work of the National Judicial Council, for its constitutional obligation, because it is a constitutional body appointed to uphold the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. The independence of the judiciary and the independence of the courts are, you might say, the pupil of the judiciary. Without these qualities, we cannot talk about the justice system at all. Those aren't passwords. These are real tasks, which are, as it were, in addition to the mainstream work that the President mentioned here. Indeed, this tedious work related to the nomination of candidates, with the requests presented to the president for appointment, which in 2015 and in previous years were always handled positively... But I will not judge, as I have already said, the actions of neither the National Judicial Council nor the President in respect of 2016. This is the main job. In fact, during this week, the teams first, then the council, in fact, in a way, but also discussed each candidate's career. Because of this number of applications, ladies and gentlemen, the work was from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., with a lunch break, and until tonight. Indeed, it took so much work to identify the best candidates. Very often, these candidates were questioned personally when it comes to higher-ranking judges, it is possible to say so, because not only at the first judicial degrees, they were also questioned by teleconferences to have direct contact with them and choose the best. And there were many criteria, ranging from evaluation in college, evaluation in application exams, opinions of individual visitors, evaluation of college, to evaluation in the vote by the assembly. Luckily, thanks to the initiative of the National Judicial Council, the law was not in effect until last year. The asessor is a judge who doesn't have a judge's appointment yet, and who thinks. Undoubtedly the best assessment of the candidate is the assessment by the perspective of his case law, his verification in the courtroom, his culture of hearing, the stability of case law, etc. I think that the introduction of this institution will make it easier to select the most appropriate staff in the future, because the point is that outstanding, Friday, superassistants do not always work well in practice as judges. The Council had limited opportunities. This possibility so far, both earlier and in 2015 was not available. But above all, And I'd like to thank you very much for that. It is about the work related to the opinion of all kinds of legislation. These acts are very much, ranging from procedural details to very important laws. I remind you of the Act on the Prosecutor's Office, the Act on the Constitutional Court; these were the laws assessed by the National Judicial Council last year. I regret that this judicial authority is, in my opinion, the greatest, of course, apart from the opinions of the Supreme Court, as the authority of the various judges. He was also ignored. Unfortunately, those are the facts. But I think the role played and played by the National Judicial Council is invaluable, because it's hard to make a case that there are no compromises as to independence. Either she's full or she's not, she's the foundation of independence. The National Judicial Council has clearly resisted certain irregularities, so to speak, in relation to the attempted political influence. And this is unacceptable, and the National Judicial Council has shown that absolutely... that politicians should stand as far away from the independence or independence of the courts as possible. Another issue is administrative supervision, which is of course necessary. It is possible to discuss The National Judicial Council and the National Judicial Council discussed On the model of administrative supervision, it is quite obvious, but interference in independence has always triggered a true and immediate reaction of the National Courts Council. And this is a very important role that the National Judicial Council is fulfilling. For this, thank you very much to the National Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u242	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the president still like to take the floor and comment on the Senator's statement in the debate? [[Chairman of the National Judicial Council Dariusz Zawistowski: If this can be short, so as not to strain the state...]] You're welcome. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u243	I'll try to answer very briefly. Mr Senator drew attention to a matter which, of course, is very important to us, because, as I said, it is our constitutional duty to respond to all signs of a threat to judicial independence. I've already mentioned a certain NCJ approach, which was a clue to us. And I would like to say that we are responding in all these situations where, in our view, the independent position of the courts and the independence of the judges are unduly attacked. But we're not doing this because we're questioning the right to criticize justice. Because it is according to those standards which he speaks about, among others. NCJ, such criticism is obviously acceptable and is needed in civil society We are merely paying attention to the fact that this criticism is of a substantive nature, that it should not be personal attacks. And where criticism is of substance, it serves the good of the justice system. And I would like to make it clear that we do not question such criticism. We then refer only to the substantive issues. And in all my positions, I would like to stress that. We do not take sides as the National Court of Justice on any of the sides of a political dispute. And we are often attributed such a role that we are criticizing, for example, the ruling option, because we are saying negative things about these projects. But it's our role, and we always do it, regardless of who's in charge. I think it's a good example. The draft laws relating to the Constitutional Tribunal are now in place. In 2015, we faced such a situation that the National Judicial Council issued a negative opinion e.g. on the draft law on the Constitutional Court, which was finally adopted in June. We've been paying attention, for example. that we are very negative about the changes that were included in the original draft and the way in which the candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal were submitted. Because in this original version there were provisions that provided that the initiative in this area would belong, for example. to universities, to the Supreme Court, to some independent institutions. There was also a provision in this proposal that provided that an active Member or Senator could not run to the Constitutional Tribunal, that there should be a period of withdrawal. As I recall, in this original project there was a record of a four-year withdrawal. That's what they gave up. So what I'm talking about is that this opinion of ours shouldn't be perceived in such a way that we're getting involved... that we're criticizing a certain political option. In any case, when we think that these solutions are bad, we express this kind of position. With regard to the opinion on the Constitutional Court Act, in its position of the end of 2015, we questioned in particular the very way in which the Constitutional Tribunal was adopted. We pointed out that the procedure of the procedure did not properly guarantee the correct adoption of these provisions, but did not, inter alia, provide it precisely because the National Judicial Council was properly deprived of the possibility of expressing its position on this project. Because, if I remember correctly, this project went to an opinion on the National Judicial Council probably two days before it was passed. So in practice, we did not have any opportunity to evaluate it in substance at this stage. In accordance with the rules, all projects relating to matters relating to the independence of courts, the independence of judges should be subject to the opinion of the National Judicial Council. Here there may be only such a dilemma that the Constitutional Tribunal is not a court, so the question arises as to whether, in this case, the National Judicial Council was indeed the body which should have spoken. But as far as the position of the Constitutional Tribunal itself is concerned, I would remind you that he, in his ruling, or actually in his statement of reasons, held that this belonged to the competence of the National Judicial Council. So it seems that our position here was also justified. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u244	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Dariusz Zawistowski, President of the National Judicial Council, for providing the Senate with information. I state that the Senate took note of the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2015. Thank you very much. Mr and Mrs Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Act amending the Road Transport Act, print No 298 and consider it as item 12 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't see why not. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We will consider this point on Friday at 10.30 a.m. We move on to the next item on the agenda. We'll proceed with the 11th... [[Voice from the room: He should come in.]] [[All right, let's take a five-minute break.]] All right, ladies and gentlemen, take five. I'm declaring a recess until 8:53 p.m. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 48 to 20 minutes 53]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Canada. Welcome to the meeting of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mr Radosław Domagalski-Łabędzki. Hello, Minister, very cordially, please take the floor and present your information. Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u245	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased to present, on behalf of the Council of Ministers and on behalf of the Ministry of Development, information on the state of play of the Cotonou Economic and Trade Agreement, namely the Agreement between the European Union and Canada. Work is currently underway within the European Union to agree, to sign this agreement, on its provisional entry into force. It is the exclusive competence of the European Union. Yesterday, at a meeting in Luxembourg, the Government of the Republic of Poland supported the provisional application by the European Union of a comprehensive economic and trade agreement. The subject of provisional application will not be the provisions of CETA on issues falling within the exclusive competence of the Member States of the European Union, particularly those which are particularly sensitive to us, i.e. the area of investment protection, including matters relating to the settlement of disputes on the line of the State. An investor. If the CETA agreement is signed in October... This is not yet decided because Belgium still did not abolish its objections to the agreement. Romania and Bulgaria also continue to raise the issue of visas and therefore hold back their support for Ceuta. But if, at the next European Council, tomorrow and Friday, these reservations are lifted by these three countries, then we expect that this temporary application will enter into force, really and effectively, in the spring of 2017, i.e. after the decision... after the vote in the European Parliament. The full entry into force of the Cotonou Agreement will only be possible after the ratification procedure of the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union has been completed. We expect this process to take at least three or four years. Here I would like to say from time to time that the issue which the Polish government has put in principle from the very beginning in the process of admitting CETA was such as to give the Polish parliament the opportunity to participate in this small process. Yesterday at the Council meeting, there was a statement in the Council's declaration confirming that this provisional application will be abolished in the case of constitutional acts such as ratification, or in this case the lack of ratification by one of the parliaments of the Member States. In October, the Sejm adopted a resolution that Poland's ratification in the future must be accepted by qualified majority, 2/3 of the votes... Members. The government's position adopted a week ago envisages the signing and conclusion of a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and the Member States. This decision was taken as a result of a thorough analysis, which was also carried out by the Ministry of Development, which I represent. As a result of these analyses it can be said that the economic benefits we expect to obtain are over $400 million additional turnover generated from exports of Polish companies in the coming years. In principle, it is a broad agreement covering various aspects of economic cooperation, i.e. trade in goods, services, investments, including protection and public procurement, commercial aspects of intellectual property, competition, consumer protection and others. Although trade with Canada represents a small percentage of our overall trade balance, about 0.5% , we hope that Polish exports will increase effectively in the coming years. Economic turnover with Canada has a very favourable trade balance, we have a very large surplus in trade, the advantage of exports over imports, with a rather dynamic trend growing. Looking at the dynamics of export growth, i.e. 10% for the first 7 months of 2016, while the increase in imports was only 0.1% We expect that the adoption of CET will further stimulate this process. In addition, the export structure is, I would say, very healthy in the sense that it is generated not by corporate transfers e.g. Canadian, only is generated in a large part by Polish companies, including small and medium-sized enterprises, and CETA at the moment provides additional trading opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises. CETA is not only preferential conditions for access to the Canadian market for Polish goods by eliminating virtually all import duties at the time of the agreement's entry into force, but also facilitating the conduct of business activities in the field of access to services on the Canadian market, for the first time at the province level, and significantly increasing access to the public procurement market in Canada, in particular below the federal level. We also see risks, but we do not underestimate these categories of risks. One of the risk categories we see is due to the absence of a bilateral safeguard clause in the agreement, which would allow temporary withdrawal of preferences in the event of risks arising from imports. Within the framework of imports e.g. for a transitional period of 7 years, a tariff quota of 100 000 t is to apply, which is to be abolished after a transitional period. Here this transition period is. In this case, Poland requested that the liberalisation of imports of wheat be permanently limited to the level of the tariff quota and not only during the transitional period. Nevertheless, a number of goods which are for us, I would say, particularly sensitive, for example, have been excluded from liberalisation in CETA. poultry or eggs. For other categories of products such as pork or beef, quotas are established. The second issue, which is particularly sensitive to us and which we have raised in every possible forum, is the issue of an investment court clause. As long as the CETA text was closed in 2014, the result was so-called. Legal scrambling, that is, clarification of texts, this year the original arbitration clause has changed into an investment court clause, i.e. there has been de facto some interference with the CETA text. Nevertheless, the final version assumes the creation of an investment court, the body in which... We are not sure if the Polish representative will be involved. This would limit our ability to influence the procedures or practice of case law. This is a matter that has been very extensively discussed within the government, as well as with representatives of the Ministry of Justice, with the Attorney General. We regard this as a great risk and we will do our utmost in all possible bodies or forums of communication with the European Commission to lead to a situation in which the participation of the Polish representative, the Polish arbitror, the person who knows the Polish system of law in the group of judges of the investment court will be ensured. We have the initial assurance of Commissioner Malmström, who is understandingly referring to our request. Certainly, the Polish Parliament will also take into account when ratifying the fact that the participation of the Polish representative will ultimately be ensured. There's one other thing that has been very controversial. The question of food safety, the question of maintaining food standards. This is directly identified with GMOs, i.e. genetically modified food. I would like to say very clearly that CETA does not create any mechanisms that would allow the influx of genetically modified food. There's no record of that. If GMO-containing products were imported, this would not be in line with the CETA rules, contrary to CETA, and this would certainly be a violation of the law. We retain the full right to ensure that we maintain our standards that guarantee consumer safety and maintain a high level of food quality standards. I know that there are many different kinds of arguments that indicate that CETA will in the future create gateways for exports to European Union countries of GMO-containing products. These are not mechanisms that result directly from CETA. These arguments are based on the fact that lobbyists' pressure to lower standards will be greater, that... But these are matters that still remain within the competence of the Member States. Given the very high public pressure on food safety issues, we hope that this will not happen. However, we are ready, as a government, to cooperate fully with the interested environments and non-governmental organisations that will monitor this process. Any signal about the import of products containing GMOs will be examined very carefully by us. In such situations, goods will be excluded from the market. We are also not afraid that CETA will become a gateway for e.g. American companies wishing to enter the market of Member States on the basis of the liberalisation of trade. Canada alone... It must be borne in mind that, as a general rule, CETA is a bilateral agreement, but not a Member State with Canada, but the European Union as a whole. The European Union is definitely dominant here. It is expected that Canadian companies do not have the potential to exploit economies of scale, which is a powerful tool in economic trade, and to dominate industrial sectors in the Member States. The transfer of business to Canada by US companies to use CETA to expand on the European market seems unlikely. We looked at what it looks like from a cost-effective point of view, and there would have to be some extraordinary macroeconomic circumstances in order for this to happen. With regard to the full impact assessment of CETA, it must be borne in mind that, as I have already said, turnover is small and their increase by up to 100% or 200% will be quite unnoticeable for the Polish industry. It should also be remembered that in the case of Canada, Poland is quite uniquely an exporter, not an importer of capital. In other words, our investments in Canada are bigger than Canadian investments in Poland. This means that in the case of investment courts, our investors, leading companies with the State Treasury, receive as if an additional instrument to protect their investments, which must be described as beneficial. In addition, Poland has signed with Canada the so-called. BIT, i.e. the bilateral agreement, only one dispute in arbitration appeared here in many years of practice. Today we are talking about both the investment and the commercial dimension, which is of course important and we are counting on it to develop, but it does not matter with regard to the scale of entire industries. We believe that the adoption of CETA, even though it is not without risk, which we do not ignore, is beneficial for Poland and will create new opportunities for Polish exporters and investors who will receive additional protection. The mechanism of provisional application allows us to see how trade liberalisation mechanisms will work in practice and whether all the risks mentioned in the public debate will materialise. If that happens, this will of course be taken into account by the parliaments of the Member States in the final ratification process. These are the most important aspects. Thank you so much for your attention. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u246	Thank you very much, Minister, for the detailed information. Would any of your senators like to ask a question to the Minister about this information? Senator Infantry. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u247	Minister, I have a question for you. According to the media, there is no official government position yet. You said the official position is. Media information only says that there is a recommendation from the Ministry of Development. This is a formal question. I didn't see it on government sites. The next question concerns a rather serious media matter, which was revealed by Interia, the issue of translation of the article. 25.2 point 2 (a) d. The Polish version, translated, which was announced in August, deviates from the original version in a fundamental way. In the biotech section, i.e. GMOs, in the Polish translation of the contract, are said that international trade should not restrict regulation in this area, e.g. the ban on trade in GMOs, and the original text of the agreement is exactly the opposite, that regulations should not restrict this trade... Otherwise, in English it is admitted that European food safety standards will be weakened, in Polish it is assured that they will not. I would like the Minister to address this, to say what the position is in this respect, whether it changes the government's position on this agreement and what the repercussions are, whether there is any further action by the government in this regard, so that this matter simply becomes clear. Well, that's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u248	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u249	Thank you very much. As for the first question concerning the government's position, it was adopted by the Council of Ministers on Tuesday, not yesterday, only a week ago. It wasn't published by the Government Information Centre, but it was accepted. The government has given its consent to ceta's adoption. On yesterday's day in Luxembourg as a representative of the Polish government I also confirmed that the Polish government has no reservations and we accepted only a declaration which points to our understanding of interpretation, to our doubts, with a quite detailed description. But, as a rule, our position is positive, the government has given its consent to the CET. As far as translation is concerned, of course I know the case. The matter of translation shouldn't have happened. I mean, I'm confirming, of course, that there's a problem with translation. The translation was done by the European Commission, and we received this translation in July, but I would also like to assure you that there is one thing... In general I read the CETA text, even though it is long. 1600 pages. We have been working on the CETA text, which has been known for a long time, in the English version, in a version which, as a rule, prevails in the case of all language differences. This English version is valid, so we have been working on the source document since the beginning, so it can be defined, so it is not some circumstance that would change the government's position. This does not change the fact that such translation errors should not happen. These have also happened in relation to translations into other languages, e.g. Spanish. As soon as this translation error was detected, we noticed that. It is unfortunate that this applies to a rather sensitive matter, which is all the more aggravating the problem. We have drawn the attention of the European Commission to the inadmissibility of such situations, but this does not change in a formal sense. The quoted article refers to certain declarative issues, as if it did not change meaning, does not refer to customs rates, abolition or not, but to certain declarative issues, which absolutely does not change the fact that any mistakes in translating the official text should not happen, and certainly not on a matter which is socially sensitive. Well, it doesn't change our position because we've been working on the source version from the start, the original one, and that was the basis for our grades. [[The English version doesn't raise any doubts?]] The English version raises no doubt. Well, it's this source version, this error concerns the Polish version. Of course, the text is translated into all the languages of the EU countries, but if there is doubt about the translation of the texts, the main version is the English version. [[A little more ad vocem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u250	As I understand it, Senator Infantry wants to ask. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u251	Minister, how would you... This is not a stylistic or spelling error. You've made a point. as if to semantics, and we are talking about substance content, which is fundamentally different from the original, original content. I'm gonna call... The original version seems to be about minimizing the impact of regulatory practices on trade, and the Polish version - to minimise the impact of trade on regulatory practices. The Lord referred to who made the mistake, who is guilty of it, that we are disgusted by it. I get it. And that, of course, belongs to the government's responsibility to present such a matter. But now it is important for me to know how much it changes the optics of looking at this case. I, of course, have full confidence in your position here and in the government, but the voters are because of it... There is simply an uproar of people who have no doubts, and now they are looking for doubts about whether there are hidden intentions here because this particular error occurs only in this one place on 1,000 600 pages and concerns such a drastic subject. That is why I would like you to come to this issue in a more precise and professional way to describe how much this point, this revised content, weakens our position on the bans and regulations that exist in our country regarding bio-synthetic food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u252	I mean, I wouldn't be looking for any hidden intentions and misrepresentation or perversion of meaning, because always the basic text is the English text. And I would stress that something like this absolutely shouldn't have happened. As I said, we are bringing this to the attention of the European Commission. That's the kind of mistake you've made. even more, they have been captured and corrected at the appropriate stage. I agree with the fact that the error is substantive, in the sense that it distorts, in a fundamental way, the meaning of the original wording of the CETA base text. Therefore, there is nothing left but the correct communication of this original, final and final provision, stressing that it is not... that, despite the fundamental change in meaning in translation, nothing changes in the actual sense. That is to say, the provision in question is, however, a declaratory provision which does not create any obligation, e.g. reducing standards or imposing some rules of cooperation. This is at the disposal of the Member States. Nevertheless, as we fully agree that such translation errors should not occur, special attention and communication with the public will certainly be indicated. And we will consider, in the Ministry of Development, the publication of an appropriate communication explaining this matter. Because I agree that the public must be informed about... maybe not as much as the circumstances, because I have no reason to assume any intention in the error of translation, but in terms of the consequences, the consequences of this original and still valid recipe.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u253	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisławek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, thank you for these explanations. We've been following what you're saying since the Seym. Nevertheless, I, worrying about the image in the media, about how the problem and threats from CET are presented, have such a problem that we are not doing enough to show the benefits. And now I have this question for you: does the government anticipate what might happen? ♪ Is the right steps ♪ may not be taken as much as protected If this cannot be voted out in the Sejm, two-thirds votes by qualified majority, if opposition parties are affected by media pressures that exaggerate certain things... As a doctor, I say that GMOs are such a scarecrow that has been in Poland for a long time and which is being abused. I'm not talking about taking the scorpion gene, putting it in wheat, am I right? That's quite different. But we have genetically modified food in the country for a very long time, and I will no longer reach for apples and orchards. Is the government aware of what will happen in the European Union when Poland fails and we do not accept it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u255	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u256	With regard to communication issues, particularly the presentation of benefits, it may be appropriate to assess that this public debate has been dominated by risks. This is understandable because, in particular, with regard to food safety issues and, therefore, consumer health, such extraordinary care and caution are required. We understand that. The consequence of this was that we presented the rations resulting from the creation of the message that CETA does not pose a risk to health and food quality, and perhaps indeed some of the benefits that we expect to obtain in connection with CETA, somewhere in this public opinion, are a little lost. At the same time, we have recently received support for Ceuta from the social partners, from the business community, from the BCC. The environments associated with businesses producing agri-food products have also supported Ceuta. So at the level of such communication with the stakeholders themselves or with entrepreneurs who can actually benefit from it, there is support for it. Therefore, our institutions under the Ministry of Development, the institutions that I personally supervise, will be tasked with creating good conditions for our entrepreneurs to export or even invest in Canada. These WPHIs will be prioritised to provide entrepreneurs with information about tenders, information about business conditions in Canada, so as to maximise benefits. As regards the political impact assessment, which could take place in the event that Poland blocked the adoption of CETA... Really today, even though Belgium maintains reservations about CETA, like Bulgaria and Romania, these are reservations that are de facto not related to the CETA content. As far as Belgium is concerned, we know very well that this is an internal dispute resulting from the lack of agreement of the federal party, namely Wallonia, which does not wish to issue too categorical judgments... We have the impression that this is a matter of internal policy in Belgium, which leads to the Belgian Government being under a lot of pressure and Valonian Parliament and the Welsh authorities, and we expect that perhaps even tomorrow there will be a compromise and these reservations will be lifted. Similarly, in the case of Bulgaria and Romania, the issue of visas already appears to be resolved at political level. We understand that the Belgians and Romanians expect the Canadian Government to make a public declaration on the abolition of visas, which is likely to happen, and therefore these reservations will also be lifted. This would mean that Poland would be the only country blocking, which is always an extremely uncomfortable situation. It should also be borne in mind that relations with Canada go beyond the economic dimension and are also political or military in nature. Canada is involved in issues related to the security of Poland, is our important partner in NATO. Therefore, these consequences would probably be serious not only in the commercial but also in the political dimension. This would have really negative effects. I don't want to judge if this would involve the cessation of Canada's involvement, for example. in the eastern NATO flank. I don't know anything about signals like that. But it should be assumed that in a situation where Poland would be the only one blocking it, there would be far-reaching political and economic consequences not only in relations with Canada but also within the EU. As the only country blocking us, we would feel it quite seriously.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u257	You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u258	That's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much, Minister, because we have the same reasoning. But I miss this media coverage because most people don't get what you said. Most people don't realize what it's gonna mean if we don't sign it. Thank you very much. But that's also a little more information...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u259	This is a matter of some government communication efficiency. I agree with the fact that something can always be improved, and in this case in particular. So we'll work on it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u260	Thank you very much. Senator Chróścikowski. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You said you didn't see many threats. The government has concerns, it sees ambiguities of interpretation, which is often quite general. The agricultural environment has no confidence in this agreement. And so I have a question: have the positions of the agricultural community been taken into account? Will these comments that have been, are and will be reported by different environments, have the opportunity to be more... Will there be more translations and showing that these risks are less than the different environments show? Here's what I'm gonna say. In agricultural experience, I know that food safety is spoken beautifully, nicely, and reality, practice is different. Example. How we will control, if we are not in control at the moment, the influx of food that is competitive in other countries due to cheaper production costs. Measures and chemicals which cannot be used in the European Union are permitted outside the European Union. We have repeatedly argued that such products should not affect the European Union and that they are constantly affecting it. Even the Polish government can't control it because it can't. It's said all the time that you can't block it. An example of Ukraine. Many times we claim that there are unacceptable things there, and the European Union constantly gives quotas and increases them at a political price, at the expense of Polish agriculture. I am also afraid that we will have two fronts for Polish agriculture West front and east front. That's why many farmers have concerns. It does not depend only on whether it will enter Poland. As it will affect the European Union, it will reduce the demand for our exports to the countries of the European Union That's because we're gonna cut him down with a deal. These concerns have been raised many times. And here there is no guarantee that we will protect ourselves, because there are all the records which in part could be consulted, because the contract only recently appeared in the Polish version, as well as the obscurities that my previous speakers had already raised.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Firstly, we do not underestimate all the risks raised in the public debate to the slightest extent. First of all, they come from the farming community. Once again, I would like to stress that we are open to a conversation, to a discussion. I've met with a lot of environments, including those that are very skeptical about CET, and we've been discussing. I believe that the role of NGOs, the role of farmers' associations is absolutely essential in the further process that will take place during the period of provisional application. I share an opinion on the risks arising from uncontrolled imports, e.g. From the East. We know that There are some gates that actually open the European market, there is a flow through Slovakia... We're aware of that. This is also a matter of the efficiency of our services. The aim is to check compliance of products with Polish standards at the inspection stage. This mechanism doesn't work the way we want it to, and there's certainly a lot of work to be done here. I come back to the basic point: it is important to remember that CETA concerns trade with Canada, where turnover is really small. While imports from Canada alone are quite insignificant on the scale of Polish imports, because this is only $400 million... The import of food from Canada also represents a small percentage of all imports, and the main items in this import are electronic parts, machines, turbojet engines, pistons and other product categories. Food products represent a small percentage of the total small, very marginal imports from Canada, so even if there was a situation, it is doubtful In which this import will increase by 100% , by 200%, and imports of food products, food from Canada will increase by up to several hundred percent, it will be absolutely unnoticeable in all trade in food products. There's no mechanism here that would cause... This will not become an important problem due to small volumes or small values, but this does not mean that this issue should be ignored. Once again, I stress that we are open to cooperation with agricultural communities in order to monitor this process. The involvement of the public is very large, this is a very sensitive subject, which is why I am convinced that if there were any signal... I can assure you that the intention of the government, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Development is to monitor this process. If there is any signal indicating that products that do not comply with Polish standards are imported into Poland, we will react immediately. This is a matter of our cooperation with these very environments. She'll be, that's our assumption. Once again, I would like to stress that we are aware of a certain malfunction resulting from the... We are aware of the influx of goods from across the eastern border, which is an important problem. This is a problem of a much larger scale, it already creates a scale, and imports from Canada do not create us any scale that would be a threat to the sector. The numbers have to be taken into account, and even if these numbers increase by several hundred or 1000%, it will still be a much smaller row of magnitude than in the case of uncontrolled imports from the East.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u263	Thank you. Senator Gawel, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u264	Minister, you used such a term here today that we negotiated this agreement, and yet it was initialled at the level of the main negotiators on 1 August 2014. Agreed? So who was preparing her properly and who was negotiating her? That's the first question. Second question. How do you understand the concept of a free trade agreement, if it's conditioned... That's 1,600 pages. Is this free trade, or are these regulations? How do you understand that? Third. Are you really convinced that American products are talking about poor quality food? Will they not enter the Polish market and threaten Polish competition? And the last. We know that there was no uniform position in the government. Which ministers raised the most objections to this agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u265	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u266	As regards the first question, namely negotiating issues, the parties to the negotiation process are the European Commission and the Canadian Ministry responsible for trade matters. Therefore, the Member States... First of all, this process actually ended in 2014. Speaking of negotiating issues, I meant... Of course, the new Polish government did not participate in this process at all. Nor did it affect the ability to exert certain pressures or to present its opinion to the European Commission. We, as the new Polish government, as the Ministry of Development, which coordinates this process, actively participate in the development of e.g. Some interpretations. This is no longer part of the negotiations with Canada, but this is part of the understanding of the text within the European Union and forcing it to use it. On the European Commission, a declaration confirming that the way in which we interpret this agreement is correct. And that happened, for example. Yesterday in Luxembourg. As a result of very active treatments of the Polish website... The meeting extended for many hours, lasted an hour, lasted five hours. We have been very active in ensuring that the Council's declaration This can already be called the negotiation process, because I have spoken with the Commissioner, with many representatives of the Commission, there is a provision which will have a decisive impact on the role of national Parliaments, for example. blocking of provisional use as a result of the non-ratification of CETA. The lack of ratification of CETA will affect not only the investment part but also the commercial part. So we also have some influence on the interpretation of certain concepts and in this sense This is a negotiation process because each Member State has its own impact on understanding certain concepts. And certainly the issue of negotiations is to provide Poland with 5 judges of the investment court. This is already a purely negotiated issue relating to a case which falls within the exclusive competence of the European Commission, i.e. the choice of 5 members of the investment court. We're working on it. And we're gonna negotiate this with whatever means we can, because it's a basically important issue for us. For one of these members to be a representative of Poland. We've signaled it many times. Commissioner Malmström has assured us that there will be a full understanding of the European Commission on this condition, but it is a process calculated for a few more years and we will work this out by negotiating. As for the second question, how to understand a free trade agreement that contains 1 000 600 pages... It may seem weird, but you have to remember. that it is not 100% an agreement which refers to free trade. Firstly, it provides the default assumption that trade is indeed free, liberalised, but certain categories, groups, e.g. agri-food products are not fully liberalised. It describes all the conditions that make this trade not free. And indeed there are quite a lot of these categories. This is not a full, 100 percent liberalisation of trade or services. It is also an agreement that clarifies not only free trade but also investment. It must be remembered that this is an agreement on trade and investment. And the investment part itself is quite complicated, because it contains all the clauses relating to the settlement of disputes on the State line. The investor establishes a completely new procedure and finally establishes a new body, which is not there, i.e. an investment court. So it creates a mechanism, which will then, of course, be clarified, but it is very carefully distributed. I've been analyzing it because it raises the biggest controversy on our side. Summa summarum actually consisted of 1,000 600 pages. There's a whole bunch of interpretation concepts, so... Well, the final result is that it's 1,600 pages. I answer the question of whether American products can enter the Polish market using the CETA mechanism. You can imagine there's such a risk. And I always stress that we are not uncritical ceta enthusiasts, but we are trying to analyze all threats, and it is certainly one such threat, but we must try to imagine what this mechanism would look like. CETA's content describes exactly what is to be understood as an investor as a Canadian company. Must be a company that has substantial business activities in Canada And it's written down exactly as well. In other words, assets, but also a certain functionality of the company must be located in Canada. So this solution does not create such a simple way to use the gate that the US company could start a special purpose company, which is an administrative company, and could invoke its turnover with Europe through this company. There's no mechanism like that. We have all this quite specific and I can say that there is no such risk. Which doesn't mean that in a situation where TTIP doesn't happen. And so far, this process is frozen. Perhaps some companies will not decide to transfer their substantial business activities to Canada. But also the question is why would they move it to Canada, since it seems easier to assume, for example, in such a situation. branch directly and immediately in Europe or look for any other solutions. And here there is always quite an important cost factor, i.e. the scale of such an undertaking would have to be important for the company to compensate for such costs. So it's not that simple. But on the other hand, the mechanism of provisional application protects us in the sense that if such gates or such mechanisms were to appear or run, they would appear very quickly. So during this period of provisional application, we will have the opportunity to assess whether such risks have really materialised. And if that happens, the parliaments of the Member States will certainly take this into account in the ratification process. So we always have the opportunity to move if we feel that this agreement is really a threat to our interests. And the last question that concerned discussions within the Council of Ministers. It seems that this division Which I wouldn't really call a division... Because there is not such a simple division that the Ministry of Development, as in such a media message was presented, was an enthusiast of CETA, and the Ministry of Justice was blocking. In fact, the discussion was much more balanced. I, for instance... Both I, as the Minister responsible for the commercial part and Prime Minister Morawiecki, have repeatedly said very critically, including publicly, on the mechanisms of investment courts. Because it's a mechanism that we don't like, and we think that two bad guys are better at arbitration, which we're doing well with. In general, due to the fact that Poland is a democratic state of law, with a mature legal system, investors should seek to settle disputes in Polish courts. That was our assumption. And that is why, going a little beyond the CETA theme, I will say that we will conduct a very thorough analysis of all BITs, i.e. investment protection agreements, including agreements with European countries. We believe that BITs, i.e. agreements that create arbitration mechanisms, have long exhausted their formula. And we would like to bring about a situation where there is one legal system in Europe, not BITs with different European countries, because this solution is making our situation worse. In this respect, the Ministry of Justice was quite firmly addressing the issue, e.g. investment courts, but we also shared these views within the Ministry of Development. The Ministry of the Environment also raised a number of reservations, especially in the context of the definition of the investor, which is why we also share the view that it is necessary to clarify this concept in such a way that by the investor or investment it means to understand activities that are real, i.e. they lead to some physical involvement of the investor's resources resulting from an administrative decision or another act. So it would rule out any situation where a potential investor only makes some kind of diligence or assessment, but has not really invested anything yet. So I'm definitely... It is also fully agreed within the government that it is necessary to exclude situations where potential investors would benefit from the protection arising precisely from investment courts enshrined in Ceuta. The Ministry of Digital Affairs reported issues concerning the need to ensure the protection of personal data, issues related to audiovisual law. I'm saying it in general. So this discussion was because, above all, there was no need for us to adopt it quickly. This haste was not advisable, because we have also followed processes that occur in other countries. Therefore, it was not necessary to adopt the government's position earlier than we actually did, because we already knew exactly what this process looked like in other countries. And it also looked different: from the enthusiastic approach to CET in the Baltic countries, to very cautious, for example. Austria. We have analysed, looked at how it will ultimately be, and it seems that we have made a decision on the position of the government at the best moment when it was already known what votes prevail within the Member States, and at the same time we have given ourselves time to discuss all the consequences, including those risks or risks that arise in this connection. The final decision is that we agree to CETA.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Martynowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u268	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, as you know, there was a report in September in which we can read that the introduction of CETA will lead to a loss of 200,000 jobs in the Union itself by 2023. I would like to ask if these are myths or real threats, and if there are real threats, how many of these places can happen to Poland. That's the first question. Second question. Like you said, the government backed this deal. The agreement is due to enter into force in the spring of 2017, and later is to be ratified by the Polish Sejm, which is 2/3 of the Members. Minister, don't you think that if the Sejm didn't accept it, then large corporations could claim damages, just like they did a few years ago in Eureko's case? And last, for now, a question. Who pushed more to sign this agreement: the European Union or Canada? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u269	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u270	Mr. Senator, as far as job losses are concerned, there are many reports, depending on who's preparing them and probably with what thesis. However, we do not see the risk of job losses in Poland. We do not see a mechanism that would cause this, among others. for the reasons I was talking about, which is because of the small economic significance. Rather, we see an opportunity to increase exports, which export always generates additional jobs, and good jobs, based precisely on some innovation, on some additional skills and skills; and this is a positive phenomenon. I don't really see the risk of losing jobs. This could only result from such a situation that there would actually be mass imports to Poland. But we don't see that threat. Because massive imports could threaten the competitive position of Polish companies and indeed these jobs could be endangered. But on the other hand, in these most sensitive sectors, we have a very small share... and so on. in the case of agri-food products, we have a very small share of imports, which represents at all a fraction of the percentage of all Polish exports. I think you have to remember. on the scale of the whole process, which does not threaten or alter the structure of the Polish industry, and only this could really affect the change in employment in a negative sense. With regard to the entry into force of the Agreement, it is important to remember of one thing .According to the Whereas the commercial part enters into force on the basis of provisional application, the investment part will enter into force only after the ratification by Parliament of the last Member State. CETA therefore enters into force by 2 stages. If it were to happen that one of the parliaments of the Member States did not ratify CETA... A sovereign act of parliament cannot constitute a claim against the Polish State. There's no mechanism. Eureko's issue was about different things. We ask all EU forums to specify all concepts and definitions, investor issues, etc. Given that CETA's investment part does not enter into force until after the ratification of the last parliament... Until then, we will be based on old BIT principles, not CETA. Therefore, there is no such delay at all, it cannot be that any investor will be able to sue Poland for Ceuta before ratification. Therefore, I do not see any such threat here. I don't know if there was another third question. I didn't make it... [[Who put the most pressure on this deal? Which side?]] As the negotiation process ended in 2014, neither I nor the other members of the government were involved at all. It is therefore difficult to answer from practice and experience. The European Commission seems to have set itself, in principle, ambitious targets for pushing trade agreements. Not only is it a free trade and investment agreement with Canada, but also a trade agreement with Korea, which already operates, with Japan, with Singapore, as well as TTIP... This is the European Commission's trend to set very ambitious trade policy objectives to lead to trade liberalisation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u271	Thank you very much. Senator Elephant. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u272	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, first of all, it's a personal matter. I'm impressed to be able to look at a man, for now the only one of my friends who's read this document. I admire it, but I don't mimic it. Now, let's get to the point. Minister, the negotiation process lasted several times. At the moment, the situation is that some of the sceptical environments in this document, to this agreement, as if they forgot that they could participate in these negotiations as part of their presence in the government. I am referring here to representatives of the Polish People's Party. Are they at the disposal of the government of a document indicating how many times and on what issues did PSL representatives make any comments or suggestions for changes to the documents negotiated? And what were these comments about? The second question is whether... I have the impression that in the case of Poland, and in the case of other countries of the European Union, the negotiating period has passed relatively without an echo. Why, in your opinion, didn't the structures of the European Union responsible for the negotiations then, I will say colloquially, the forces of the street, as is happening now? The street, as you can see at the moment, has quite a stabbing force. And it either slipped away, or in the negotiation process it did not really occur. Perhaps this was due to a small interest in informing the general public about the Member States' social opinions. The third question concerns the question of interest in the agreement of countries which have a rather expansive policy of establishing economic agreements and not only. These countries express a supernormal concern for the situation of the European Union and its individual members after the signing of this agreement. I am referring here to representatives of the Russian Federation who express concern and concern about the position of the European Union after the signing and after the entry into force of this agreement. The fourth question concerns your opinion on the possible adoption of fundamental solutions in the Act that would avoid future problems, whether with an investment court or arbitration. The inclusion of certain safeguards in the basic law would introduce the primacy of our internal solutions over the arrangements provided for in an agreement concluded between the Union and Canada. Could such solutions exist? Is this a solution worth considering? When I look for some weaknesses in this agreement, it finds them in ways of resolving future disputes and in a rather weakened position of the Member States in a possible dispute. The next question concerns a contract of commitments distributed by sceptics. Some even claim I have met with such opinions among the members of the Kukiz Group15 that the claims which Poland currently regulates after the lost proceedings reach even several billion zlotys. That's all in this round of questions. Thank you for the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u273	You're welcome, Minister. I'm asking for a brief answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u274	As far as the first question is concerned, concerning the intervention of PSL politicians during the negotiations, I do not have that knowledge. I'm sure the Ministry of Agriculture could have better information here. It is important to remember that these were negotiations between the European Commission and Canada, so it would be necessary to check how the communication was on the line: Polish public institutions, including the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Economy, and EU institutions, which may be so difficult that some were probably informal, but I unfortunately do not have such knowledge... Although generally, as far as I know, this activity was not much, it was definitely not much. As regards issues related to social protests, public information, it seems to me that the NETA issue did not arouse much emotion at the negotiation stage. I can't remember what it looked like before 2014. Now there's much more interest. But we can make an analogy to the TTIP where these negotiations are going on. Here, this public interest is much greater and we, as the Ministry of Development, have pointed out to the EU fora that the process of communication with the public, but also with the Member States, is not satisfactory, is not transparent enough. These negotiations are secret, which in itself is not necessarily wrong, but the way in which stakeholders themselves are informed, i.e. the Member States which could then forward this information to the public, is insufficient. I think that the European Commission, precisely because of public pressure, will take this very seriously. I have the impression that the Commissioner has declared it, although I do not know what it means in practice. We're gonna keep her as if we're gonna take her word for it, and we're gonna settle those declarations. As for the questions about the Russian Federation... Undoubtedly, Poland is interested in deepening transatlantic ties. It is true, I personally believe that these trade agreements have a commercial dimension not only but also a geopolitical dimension, they are centralising these transatlantic bonds. This is also a response to certain processes of a globalised economy, where the focus is moving towards Asia, where there is a certain logic of these trade agreements... Prior to the entry into force of Ceuta, an agreement was reached on the issue of the TPP, a trans-pacific free trade agreement. China, on the other hand, as a competitive economy vis-à-vis the United States, responded precisely with its trade treaties. And CETA, and TTIP can, I think, link in this whole context... what's good about these transatlantic bonds... It is important to remember that in these geopolitical processes the interests of smaller countries may not be perceived, so it is in our interest to increase our sensitivity to TTIP in all possible bodies and forums. And these sensitivitys of the European Commission we define very strongly, and we insist that this must be met so that Poland can make a positive contribution to TTIP, where these risks are much, much greater than in the case of CETA. But we see it. With regard to the adoption in the Constitution of solutions which would allow for a greater consolidation of solutions which we consider to be detrimental to Poland, I must say yes: I am not a parliamentarian, therefore I do not participate in these processes. This is, of course, a sovereign decision of the Polish Parliament. For this I can say that the Germans use such an argument, e.g. yesterday in Luxembourg, there was such an argument that they retain the right to take decisions depending on the decisions of their constitutional tribunal, which, of course, stems from the constitutional arrangements. In this sense, it would probably be possible to consider a construction that would allow greater protection of interests, but this is a sovereign decision of Parliament. Yet...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u275	Has any question been omitted? [[Senator Krzysztof Elephant: Please...)]] Microphone, please. [[Thank you very much. I would very much ask you to answer the first question, if I may, in writing.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Radosław Domagalski-Łabędzki: Good.]] [[And there was a question about...]] Why don't we get to the next question, Mr. Senator, and we'll think about it. I'm asking you to ask me a question, Senator Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, when you calm us down, saying that there is no great threat from flooding the Polish market with this food, because at this moment the trade balance on the Polish side is basically positive. It would calm me down when this agreement would be a bilateral agreement, an agreement between Poland and Canada. However, we must look at this agreement from the point of view that this is an agreement to which the whole European Union is party. And that's where there's no such prospect. I am going back to what Senator Chróścikowski said, because the impact of this agreement will also be indirect. In the countries of our neighbours there will be a very large number of products from Canada and this will also indirectly affect our markets. After all, we in Poland have many different commercial networks, which are owned by the countries of our neighbours. Here, too, there may be some kind of transversal phenomena. There's gonna be another kind of influx of this food. Is Poland also conducting such analyses, e.g. How will this deal affect our neighbours' markets? Because, so far, I do not see an in-depth analysis from a European perspective or at least from the perspective of countries that are important to us in terms of trade, food trade, etc. I hope I made myself clear what I mean. I mean the international, European perspective.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u277	Thank you very much. Let's get back to the question... Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I was also referring to the information that some Members of the Kukiz Movement are spreading on the fact that Poland must pay billions of damages in lost processes. And they make this as an argument or as one of the arguments against such a formula of the CETA agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u279	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u280	When I answer questions about claims, I will say that these claims result from BIT, i.e. from investment protection contracts. CETA totally endures Canadian BIT. We're not satisfied with Canadian BIT. It was created in the 1990s and under certain conditions where we had a much weaker position. As a general rule, CETA creates a completely new kind of dispute resolution structure. So these analogys to the current situation are not quite correct because, as long as we are critical of the internal structure of the investment court itself, some things work decisively in favour, e.g. narrowing down the definition of the investor. Secondly, introducing the principle that the losing party bears the costs of the process as if on both sides, i.e. the winning party, the State in this case has a claim in turn for reimbursement of those costs, which should in principle affect the decision to sue at all. In this sense, it is beneficial and appealing to an analogy, to solutions that are simply systemicly different, is not quite correct in my opinion. However, this does not change the fact that the investment court will develop a certain practice that we are analysing, but we are not quite sure, because this, this institution, is not yet available, and therefore we are not able to predict a hundred percent what kind of practice will be shaped, and it depends primarily on the judges, the arbitrators. We are aware that the traditions of arbitration in the European Union are greater, above all the number of judges, the potential judges of the investment court is quite narrow in the sense that in Europe there are just a small group of people who could potentially be included in the selection of these courts. And this, as a rule, is not the Poles, but this is probably the Dutchman, the Frenchman, at least by looking at the group of these people... So here we must be particularly careful when it comes to ensuring the representation of our part of Europe, preferably Poland. So that's two different things. [[But did we inherit, Minister, any billion-dollar claims?]] In connection with BIT we still have arbitration, these proceedings are ongoing. The U.S. Attorney General is running these disputes. But it doesn't change anything, they'll roll. [[The senator's question is breaking.]] With regard to issues relating to the distribution of goods, these are the calculations of the European Commission, which indicate a potential impact on the economies of the EU countries. The structure of our neighbours' economies is similar to that of Poland as regards the distribution structure in terms of export structure, trade balance. Given that from the point of view of market entry strategy, the export strategy of Canadian companies Poland is the most attractive place for potential expansion, at least in Central Europe... Because Poland is the demographically largest country with very far-reaching trade facilitations Maybe too much. Where practically no barriers exist, especially as regards retail networks. In this case, I do not see much of a mechanism that would cause export, I do not know, to the countries of our region and then re-export to Poland. These are costs, duplication of costs in a situation where CETA creates the possibility of direct trade, in this case with Poland, and commercial networks are generally in the hands of foreign capital We don't have any influence here. There is often a policy of preference for foreign products. However, this mechanism will probably be directed directly at Poland... Given the pattern of trade and, above all, the distribution structure, I wouldn't be afraid of that. I do not see such a threat, especially since all available analyses show that our region will generally make little use of CETA and TTIP, this impact will be marginal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u281	Thank you very much. Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u282	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Minister, you have said so much about these investment courts. I am well-informed and I know that when I signed the agreement of 2014... There was no mention of investment courts. It was only TTIP that forced such solutions, and such courts will arise. Can we say that we will accept a contract that has been changed in the process? Couldn't we just negotiate, make other terms? In one direction, I think it went... Maybe it was worth considering, not accepting, negotiating, not rejecting by ratifying... Maybe it was better to get back to the negotiations now that there have been solutions like this... And the other thing. We give the European Union a decision in the framework of ratification... Will Poland or other countries be able to say that they no longer want to be in CETA, or will the whole Union have to decide that the agreement is terminated? There's a record that you can say... There's even a deadline. There are also certain investments, a period of 20 years in which the consequences of the investments will have to be borne... Yeah, that's what I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u283	As regards the question relating to investment courts, there was indeed an arbitration clause in the agreed consolidated text in 2014. Then there was the so-called procedure. Legal scrambing, which means... It wasn't a correction, it was a text-cleaning, that's what you might call it, a clarification. In March of this year it turned out that following the application of this procedure, the formula for resolving disputes on the line of the investor The state has changed, de facto, in substance. The parties considered that this was a procedure not to interfere with the text, but to clarify it... But it is really a substantive change, and there is no doubt about it. But this did not happen in connection with TTIP, as Americans are also against investment courts, they prefer to stay with arbitration. So this, not another change that has been made in the text, is rather the result of the so-called pressure. NGOs, which called for greater transparency on the dispute resolution line, and it was the pressure of NGOs that prompted the European Commission and Canada to reformulate this content. I wouldn't have anything to do with TTIP at all. I'm pretty sure it's a question. environments, NGOs. As if you could remind me of the second question because I didn't write it down... [[... within the Union, we have no way of deciding whether to leave.]] I mean, we have the possibility, the decision of the national parliament, above all to hold off the investment part, but also to notify the European Commission of the lack of ratification, which is also to stop the provisional application, i.e.... [[But after ratification.]] After ratification... Well, it should be assumed that the decision of the parliaments of the Member States, in an additional twenty-eight, already creates such an irreversible fact, apart from some situations actually... That's why it's really advisable to be extra-standard with caution. And, as I understand the intentions of the Members, although I am not a Member... The adoption by a resolution of a qualified majority of 2/3 in the adoption of a resolution, an act of ratification, is intended to safeguard a broad consensus and increase the likelihood that it will be a decision with the widest possible social consensus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u284	Senator Leszek Infantry. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u285	I will still be so happy to appeal to your answer: well, you had to tell the senator openly that the only way out of the European Union after ratification is to get out of the European Union. Well, because then it wouldn't apply anymore... But here's the question... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, 'cause then it would be... Only on this basis. Yeah, but this is... Of course, I think it's funny because... that's not the point. Of course I don't hide that for 20 years... 20 years ago I was a great supporter of NAFTA, as maybe one of the few politicians I thought was one of the best international agreements at the time. And for many years, she has really been fulfilling this function. Today there are many reservations about the negative and positive aspects of this agreement, and maybe that is why many questions, doubts and positions arise here. But I will be honest, hence my interest and hence my request to the marshal to place on today's agenda this position, a comprehensive position of the President of the Council of Ministers on all threats, pros and cons, economic and legal issues. And I'm a little disappointed about that. Because I know your resume, I know your competence... Maybe it was a lack of time. But I was hoping for such a really solid amount of knowledge that my law and justice colleagues are now asking for. Because that's what we're all missing right now so we can just talk about it in substance. And finally, They're serious... You have tools that would allow us simply to discuss with the voters and speak the obvious... making some arguments, factual, concrete. For this reason, we are now asking questions, sometimes naive, and sometimes more specific, for which you may not be prepared, not to have the appropriate documents. But, of course, I have to ask these questions. First question. Does the Minister see risks in public procurement of public spending for social purposes? Because this is a very important issue that is being addressed. It's obvious that corporations here can... For social purposes, so, let's assume, on waterworks, on health and other issues that take place in some sort of... Europe is more social. She's kind of... Well, here... Are there gonna be these threats... I'm not going to develop it. You know what I'm talking about. The second point is whether this agreement forces us to consult As at the moment, it is necessary to consult compliance with Union law. With corporations, as to whether the changes in the regulations in question do not potentially affect the regulations... So it would be necessary for corporations to determine whether their interests are at risk even before the bill is passed or introduced. Is there such a threat or not? That's the kind of question I've been getting. And now it's a matter of judgment. We're talking about costs. Are you able to present, at the moment, in writing, how much over these years, not only Canada, but also America, of course, in these bilateral agreements were there cases in which Poland was suffering costs? What are the costs you're looking for right now? Did Poland ever win and what character did it have? Isn't that a secret? I ask because there is also such information that the judgments of these courts are covered by secrecy, and citizens cannot know what they were concerned about, what was the subject of the dispute, what was the amount of the specific amount they could not even know of the company that existed and what the case was. If I have the wrong knowledge on this issue, I would ask for a corrigendum. That's not all yet, but thank you so much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u286	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u287	Thank you for asking. As regards public procurement for social purposes, CETA generally does not refer to changing the rules on issues as sensitive as health. Or water. Moreover, water-related issues were raised by Slovenia, which also put the matter in principle. As regards the catalogue of enumeratively endearing areas which are excluded from the activities of CETA, I can prepare this in writing. When it comes to forcing consultation with corporations, I cannot imagine such a mechanism, I have no idea how it would look formally at all, because corporations in no formal sense are a partner for us to discuss anything that has to do with regulations in the Polish state. I just can't imagine the situation. I don't see... Even if there was an intention, I don't know what it would look like in practice. As far as the costs of disputes are concerned, in order to be precise, I would have to reply in writing in a manner that guarantees access to data that may be disclosed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u288	Thank you very much. [[One more question.]] Okay, finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u289	I have an extra question. Something was missing here... [[Louder!]] [[Voice from the room: Please go to the microphone.]] I'm sorry. I mean, what industries, what goods they're gonna get. What goods will we be able to sell now as Poles on the Canadian market, whose sales have so far been difficult due to the lack of provisions in bilateral agreements? Is there such an analysis? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Radosław Domagalski-Łabędzki: Yes.]] In what space, in what area do we have the opportunity to gain benefits? 'Cause it wasn't actually told who's gonna benefit from it. We keep talking about what we're gonna lose. And in what economic area can we gain from this agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u290	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u291	In fact, there is perhaps not enough talk about benefits and too much about risks, which is due to the various kinds of concerns raised in the public debate. This does not change the fact that, first and foremost, small and medium-sized enterprises are to gain, because it is for them, that for SMEs the biggest barrier or risk in commercial activities are all these tariff restrictions, but also the regulatory ones that will be abolished. So we're hoping for increases in the furniture sector. We are counting on increases in the agri-food sector, because, if it is true, for example. Canada is the third largest producer of GMO products in the world, while Canada is currently fashionable for organic, health-promoting products. There is a niche that has reached quite large sizes, and Poland has a lot to offer in this respect. Success in increasing exports will also be a consequence of the effectiveness of public administration. As I said, I have declared, in this new export support plan, which is one of the pillars of the Responsible Development Plan, we will pay particular attention to Canada. We will introduce quite significant structural changes in the next year, which will increase access to knowledge, information, which will reduce the costs of entering the market, so we will maximise the benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u292	Senator Elephant. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u293	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, what's it like with this Great Britain? Was she, in your knowledge, an active subject in the negotiation process? What is happening at the moment, at the time when this agreement is to be initialled, this agreement? What will happen during this transition period that is imposed on Brexit? And what will happen in the agreement: the United Kingdom, connected in some way commercially with the European Union, but already outside the European Union, the European Union and Canada? That's the first question. The second question concerns the balance in turnover. Right now. I'm not assessing whether these turnovers are purely high or not. We have a positive balance. According to the analysis, will we be able to keep this balance, along with the entire related market of the European Union, Canada? The documents state that this balance will generally be positive for the European Union, we will be a few billion ahead, in colloquially speaking, in relation to Canada. How will it be with Poland in this exchange? The third question is whether the contract contains provisions on the movement of labour. Does Canada have a deficit when it comes to employees? And has it secured its labour market against the possible transfer of workers who have emerged in Europe as part of recent migration movements? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u294	As far as the UK issue is concerned, whether it was active, I would say that, above all, these negotiations were between the European Commission and the Ministry of Foreign Trade in the Government of Canada. These are the parties, the partners in the negotiation process. Of course, each country has been exerting some kind of pressure on the European Commission to obtain provisions that safeguard the interests of individual countries, so we cannot be entirely sure what those pressures on the European Commission from the UK Government looked like, because these are matters that are individual. I'm sure it's that in the process of so-called. Brexit, although we don't know exactly what Brexit is and under what conditions He will come, which will also determine these matters... Trade policy is the sole competence of the European Union. Therefore, Brexit will mean that Britain will have to create its new trade policy, I do not know whether from scratch, because they had their trade policy before, but I do know that they are quite hastily building structures that are supposed to be responsible for trade policy. At this point, these negotiations will be... The United Kingdom, being outside the European Union, will not be a party to Ceuta, so it will have to negotiate its own treaty with Canada, with the United States. It can be assumed that this process will be much more effective than the negotiations between the European Commission and the Department of Commerce in the United States or the Ministry of Foreign Trade. As he will look in practice, I do not know, but he will certainly be much more efficient than in the current negotiations. As regards the certainty of the assessment of the economic turnover balance... Not only do we have very favourable trade with Canada, but the dynamics are also very favorable, because after 7 months of 2016, we have an increase of 10% in exports and 0.1% in exports. in import, which means the surplus is growing. I think CETA's gonna dynamite this process. I don't see the risk that things might be different because you have to look at the structure of Canadian investments. In most cases, exports are driven by foreign investments. The structure of foreign trade in Poland is such that two thirds of Poland's exports are subject to foreign capital, foreign companies, and one third of Polish export of Polish companies. In the case of Canada, investments are not large and are not corporate investments. There are probably a hundred and dozen Canadian investments, 80 of which are investments, where there are up to nine employees, so they don't have the potential to create some kind of extraordinary scale. It's gonna be an export... The surplus in trade will apply to Polish companies, because they have the potential, and these Canadian investments do not have, so strengthening the trend of export growth will be beneficial for us. Rather, there is no risk that imports will increase at the expense of exports; this is shown by the logic of such treaties. While, in the case of a free trade agreement with Canada, the European Union as a whole had a deficit in order, as I recall, 7 billion, it is now over-traded, so that rather this weaker partner would be concerned about the structure of trade rather than the stronger one, which is the European Union, because it must be seen as a whole. As far as labour is concerned, it does not, as a general rule, refer to purely workers. Of course, she refers to matters relating to the recognition of competences, diplomas or such issues, but in principle does not address, for example, the issue of visas, which in turn could cause some migration movement between the two parts of the system. That's what it's like... It is certainly important to agree with the position of Bulgaria or Romania, which believes that free trade cannot be freely carried out in connection with the visa regime. The same is true for TTIP: we do not combine TTIP negotiations with visa issues that would ensure better movement of people, because this is the competence of a completely different body.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u295	Thank you very much. I'd like to point out that some phrases have been repeated for the fifth, sixth or seventh time, so... Senator Infantry, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u296	Mr. Marshal, I can assure you that every question I ask will be about a different area. One of the important elements of CETA is intellectual property, patents, copyright. I'd like to know if the Ministry has analyzed the consequences of these records, whether they're being analyzed... We're talking about pharmaceutical products, but we're also talking about those that might in some sense be similar to... they could be dangerous, like ACTA... has this case been analyzed? It is simply that these provisions exclude those which had previously been questioned by the communities in the Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u297	Yes, intellectual property issues have been analyzed. Generally speaking, we believe that intellectual property issues are a category of risk, because these global companies, Poland, do not have global companies, monopolize certain knowledge, using intellectual property, and thus dominate in certain sectors. We see such a threat, because this is one of the circumstances that does not facilitate trade only on the contrary. They're restricting it. As far as ceta is concerned, we don't see such threats here. Data protection issues have also been analysed by the Ministry of Digitalization and we in all declarations stress that CETA cannot worsen the situation related to data protection and derivatives of rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u298	Thank you very much. Senator Elephant, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u299	Mr. Marshal, I hope I haven't asked that question yet. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: We'll remind you.]] Thanks. Minister, my question, one in this round, concerns the hope placed in the opportunities to increase our energy security. Is there any chance that this safety could be increased, even if using the unique ability of Canadians to obtain fuel? [[The voice from the room: Paliw?]] Smoke. Does the Ministry consider that we are a beneficiary of all kinds of fuels from the Canadian market? And could that affect our energy security?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u300	This could certainly have an impact on energy security, which we are also seeking in general with regard to TTIP, although this process is frozen, but we still demand that there be a special energy charter introduced into TTIP. And in general, we want these free trade mechanisms to lead to this market being liberalised. Without a doubt, the shale revolution, which is going on and now is de facto the second shale revolution. Indeed, it reduces energy costs and brings huge economies of scale in terms of energy costs for the North American industry. And the problem is still regulatory constraints and lack of infrastructure. All the time... I may not have some very detailed knowledge on this subject today, but I can tell you that the whole infrastructure was all about export rather than import, so... But as far as I know, there are also a lot of positive things happening in terms of our interests, namely the liberalisation of this market.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u301	Thank you very much. I inform you that Minister Radosław Domagalski-Łabędzki has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by the senators of the Elephant and Infantry. I'm opening a discussion. And thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Radosław Domagalski-Łabędzki: Thank you.]] Please take the floor of Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is difficult to discuss such an important subject, especially since I am interested not only in economic relations, in which Poland will enter, but also in the geopolitical, global situation, which involves the possible adoption by the European Union of this agreement, CETA. I also have a very sentimental attitude towards Canada. There are many of my friends there who, in their youth, were forced to look for their second home there. And that's where they found the house. They have families there, they find jobs there, they identify with that society. So it is hard for me to expect that I will be misguided towards this great and well-wishing country, Canada. I would also like to draw attention in my speech to global aspects, and perhaps above all to these aspects, because they, despite many reservations and uncertainties, which also affect me in connection with the CETA agreement, prevail in favour of supporting the position of the government and Prime Minister Beata Szydło, which is to support Poland's entry into this agreement resulting from the CETA agreement. The world is now moving towards a certain polarization, not only economic and economic polarisation, but also polarisation combined in a very important way with military issues, with issues related to technological advantages, including the advantages of population potential. What happens in the Far East And the Minister mentioned it. These alliances, which are established and concluded there, are not optimistic because they carry the burden of economic links and a certain domination on world markets in those regions. Therefore, it seems natural that Europe, as sometimes drifting in the unknown direction of a ship with 500 million passengers, should be looking for natural allies who have somehow proven themselves, who have allowed themselves to try out. Both the United States and Canada seem to be such allies Okay, I'll be right back. Mentally, civilistically, drawing its roots from European democracy. It is also necessary to draw attention to the military alliances that come to our support with these great countries. I also have a positive view of the economic relationship with Canada so far. If I were to take them as a reference to what is to happen under the CETA agreement, I would be an optimist here. Do I share the view of those who, with some reserve, approach this agreement? I also note the danger of uncontrolled emergence on the European market of goods that we consider harmful, even dangerous to health and life. I mean mostly those goods that were manufactured and manufactured in Canada using very specialty products. And the pesticides, and the technologies that promote genetics. I'm very afraid of that. Polish consumers are also concerned about this, but also Polish farmers, because goods produced and introduced by Canada to world markets can be competitive. It is always easier and cheaper to produce goods that involve the latest technologies to reduce production costs and increase the yield of both different types of cereals and fruit and vegetables. It's our economy that can touch the most. The economy is mainly based on small, traditional farms in its farm formula. We have something to fear, since they fear even very technologically advanced and much larger farms of farmers and farmers of Western Europe. I'm less concerned that we could be the victim of some kind of expansion, whether it's technology or it's Canadian companies. I believe that with such government policy and openness to innovation, we are able to compete with the market there. Not only the manufacturing market, but also the market for newer technologies. I'm an optimist here. In general, I believe that we are going in the right direction with such partners, but I am sceptical about the safeguards enshrined in the agreement that provide for arbitration or those investment courts. In my opinion, they will not secure the interests of countries such as Poland, which, however, may prove helpless with such records against the pressures and claims of corporations and large companies. Therefore, I consider it very appropriate that the provisions already adopted by the Sejm, that the ratification of CETA, if any, should be ratified by a majority in our country. Two-thirds of the votes of the chambers... I would also like to see certain safeguards related to both, in simplification, to the GMO market and to the position of Poland in possible disputes, included in the basic law. This would, in my opinion, allow the primacy of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland to be used in possible disputes and in situations of danger, and at the same time would constitute a natural barrier to these dangers which are highlighted by opponents of the European Union's acceptance, including Poland, of this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u303	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, today is a late time for such a long discussion and there is much more to be said, but it is no longer possible to ask many questions and discuss at this time. I will say, as a representative of agricultural solidarity, and I am its head, that we, as agricultural solidarity, have adopted a resolution on Poland's failure to sign the Cotonou Agreement between the European Union and Canada on the basis of §56 of the statutes of our union. The NSZZ RI National Council Bureau also objects to Poland's possible signature and ratification of a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada. The signing of this agreement poses a real threat to the viability of Polish family farms and Polish agriculture and will adversely affect the food security of the society. The NSZZ RI National Council Bureau calls on the Government of the Republic of Poland and Parliament to reject a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada. I am obliged to present this resolution, because it obliges me to do something, and this is the position on behalf of the "Solidarity" of farmers I presented, present and I will have to present until we change it. I would like to point out that the problem of liberalisation is a serious problem. That's not the subject, you might say, of the last minute. I would like to point out that the so-called. WTO negotiations, which have been going on for many years, have come at a certain point at a dead end. I once took part in the United States in Seattle in the so-called. WTO negotiations, where powerful demonstrations have passed and stopped the negotiation process because the world disagreed. The anti-globalists, as they are called, have blocked Seattle and led to great commotions, causing further negotiations not to take place. The world, the European Union, the United States, the other countries that want this liberalisation, have gone towards individual bilateral talks, as if bypassing the WTO, and although the WTO still has its rules, it operates, the process is not progressing. We are therefore concerned, as farmers in many regions of the world are afraid, that this globalisation will lead to great decisions made by large companies, which are already deciding on large areas of farms and eliminating family farms. Europe is mainly based on family farms. Europe has concerns. I often attend meetings in Brussels in the framework of European agricultural organisations Copa-Cogeca, even I have been vice-president not so long ago, many times that we have spoken and negotiated, even as part of the negotiating package before signing in 2014, and we have expressed our firm opposition to such solutions as are proposed. But in the final stage of the negotiations, after signing some European countries changed their mind, France, Germany No, we have achieved our own, we have access to the Canadian market, we will export our wines, cheese, those processed products that will make a profit. Some countries' orientation has already changed a bit. This shows that when something is economically beneficial, you can change your mind. But some countries still have concerns. My concerns, as I said before, when I ask a question, are more drastic. We have a direct neighborhood with Ukraine. This is the next threat that makes... there are no family farms. There are several thousand-hectare farms there. There, indeed, there is a war going on at the moment, but there are also huge investments in Western countries. Germany, the Netherlands, the Chinese and others are investing enormously in agriculture. Not long ago, we met with the Minister of Agriculture of Ukraine, Mr Hogan, in Rzeszow, and there was a discussion about the future of Europe and Ukraine's accession to the European Union. There was such a statement: yes, Ukraine is developing very much The Minister of Agriculture of Ukraine says this. Our plans are very far-reaching, today we have 65 million tons of cereal production, next year there will be 100 million. This is 35 million more than Poland itself produces. So this expansion is going on in Ukraine. And who is in Ukraine, I know, because I live on the Ukrainian border, I know what the land is there, Volyn, other... We know it doesn't take a lot of cost, and you can raise your income and have... The expansion's coming. Therefore, our concerns are that he will be from the East and the West... Because today it's called. the opening of CETA under TTIP, and everyone thinks that once we take this step, it will go on. And it's probably gonna happen. So the expansion of global concerns to our native agriculture is a huge threat, and we're talking about jobs... I can say that in a few years' time, several hundred thousand farmers will lose their jobs, and of course it will be impossible to find work here. Maybe some of them will find it, but not always. If the economy develops, maybe some will. Today we have more than 2 million Polish emigration, as we say, to the European Union, where we look for jobs. They're probably gonna leave... On the so-called. seasonal works we bring also Ukrainians to Poland, so this flow exists. The question is, how is this supposed to work? Therefore, due to global threats, there is a question about environmental protection. Everyone speaks beautifully. Recently, at a meeting in Brussels, I asked Commissioner Hogan a question, as he continues to see agriculture. He said there were three basic things. There's an environment... Well, the biggest threat to the environment is transport. He's the one who destroys the environment the most. And the question is, this liberalisation is that ships in one, in the other, planes, circular transport is polluting everything... In fact, we should produce food more regionally, eat regionally, because it's the healthiest. In the regions. Give people a chance to live like this. We're gonna take a couple of years... It's gonna work. Maybe I'm wrong. What the future of European agriculture will look like. That is why Europe defends itself very much against GMOs. It was our Polish strong stubbornness that caused the European Union to oppose GMO cultivation. There is no consent to cultivation of GMOs in Poland. Many countries, such as Italy, Hungary, can also be mentioned here Austria... There are several leading countries that block the development of GMOs in the European Union. The French say they're against it, but they're for it. It's so ambiguous. Spain - Yes, Czechs. Yeah, yeah, Well, I could tell you what the trends are about the introduction of GMOs. Of course, those who today have 500, 1000 ha, a few thousand hectares in the European Union, because we also have such farms, and in Poland we have one too, of course they are interested in GMO cultivation. This is the dilemma: the foresight that applies to our law, or to prove what Americans and others want. They say we have to prove it, and we say that we have the caution that we're afraid, so we have to prove that it's okay, just like with drugs. So there are a lot of threats here that we see as farmers. That's why our position is... And like I said, maybe it was time for governments not to sign, maybe we had to renegotiate before ratification came. Maybe it was worth thinking about. It's a different rule, but that's exactly what we think we should do. Fears are. As Chairman of Agricultural Solidarity, I have to say it and I have to defend this position. Because we're meeting with a lot of farmers or agricultural chambers or others and they're saying the same thing. This isn't about how it rained here, the people who negotiated, so PSL... Let me put it this way: Mr Piechociński was Minister of Economy, Deputy Prime Minister, and he was responsible for the negotiations. I have repeatedly asked who is responsible in Poland for WTO, CETA and TTIP negotiations. The Ministry of Economy responds... [[Time's up.]] ...and today the Ministry of Development. That's the truth. The Minister of Agriculture doesn't have much to say. Today, the Ministry of Development is responsible mainly for this. Thank you, because time's up. This is the agricultural position of the "Solidarity."
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u305	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! My previous speaker, Senator Chróścikowski, rightly pointed out that there are significant risks to agriculture arising from this agreement. I would like to point out that not only for agriculture. Because please pay attention to one thing: Canada is a country where industry is actually in the hands of big corporations. I ignore the fact that in Canada there are more than 40,000 American companies, which are also companies associated with large corporations. If so, will Polish industry, Polish agriculture, which is not connected with these big companies, big corporations, be able to compete? Because Senator Infantry rightly asked a question to the Minister, to whom the answer was, let's say, delicately, incomplete. Namely what benefits does the Ministry see for Poland? What are we gonna get out of this deal? Are there any specific areas where you can say, we're going to gain here because this is what we're going to gain here because it's going to be like this? The Minister mentioned only one industry, he said that it might be the furniture industry, which I dare doubt, because Canada is precisely a country in which wood is abundant. It seems to me that such agreements as the CETA agreement... I'm just gonna talk about something on the margins here. There is a NAFTA agreement, which was kind of a model of this agreement, an agreement between the United States, Canada and Mexico. And the weakest country of these three, Mexico, has really lost on this deal. Please analyse the economic situation in Mexico as a result of the conclusion of this agreement. Of course, everything was fine in theory, but then he was the one who got hurt the most. Now I'm gonna go back to what I was talking about. I think this kind of free trade deal is... I am by nature a freeman, and I believe that economic freedom, freedom of movement of people, goods As a matter of fact, but on one condition: these contracts must be concluded between entities with similar potential. However, it is hard to believe that if one entity is huge and the other small, then the small one will now gain on the contract. What's the security? That's what Senator Elephant was talking about. He told me about arbitration. I do not know whether arbitration courts will stand on the side of a small European country or on the side of large corporations and the great economic power of North America; that is what it should be called. I will try again to appeal to what Senator Chróścikowski said. It seems that we should try to renegotiate this or continue to negotiate to find safeguards for Poland, so that we do not, as a result, become an economic victim of this agreement. Of course, I do not look at this with regard to countries, because I agree that our contacts with Canada, with the United States are very positive. Except it's not the governments of the United States or Canada that are going to be involved in these economic issues, it's the corporations that are ruthless. If we don't fight tonight to secure our interests, then we'll be at the mercy and disfavor of the great world. It's all in the end... It is interesting that in the election campaign that took place a year ago, no political group raised the issue of TTIP or CETA. Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because if this case were the subject of an election campaign, the subject of public discourse in our country, we would know, at least to some extent, what the attitude of society is. But these matters have not become part of the electoral campaign, so no political group has any authority in the Polish society on the issues that are being addressed here. I think that's why the Sejm's decision was not to accept ratification by a simple majority, but by a two-thirds majority, in order to more legitimize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u307	Thank you very much. Marshal Borusewicz joined the floor. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very interesting discussion. I'll just be a minute. After the speeches I heard, I decided to speak because some of them surprised me. It is very good that this agreement is not negotiated by the Ministry of Agriculture, because it does not only concern agriculture. It is good that it is negotiated by the Minister of Development, because it covers a much wider scope... and it is an intergovernmental agreement. The problem with Poland all the time is that Polish resorts, which see only the interest in their own scope, do not see the interest of the whole. In fact, this agreement of the European Union with Canada, CETA, we have all taken an interest this year. Why are we so interested this year? Because a much more serious deal, TTIP, with the United States, is on the horizon. In connection with these agreements there have been protests by anti-globalists who reject these agreements. If we were to accept the allegations they put forward, these agreements would have to be rejected in full, not negotiated. Well, I think that's a suicidal approach. The European Union and not Poland It is not a separate, isolated homestead and cannot be treated in this way. If we think that way, it would be suicidal thinking, as I say. World corporations are, function, they enter the European Union and Poland. The domination of Asia, China, the Far East is increasing. Therefore, I believe that each such agreement is a positive thing per balance, because it creates synergies. She creates synergy. We can't be afraid of everything. We are afraid of CETA, we are afraid of TTIP, we are also afraid of Ukraine at the moment. Let's get this Ukraine going. She's poor. Let her grow. And you have to help her, not just put barriers. This agreement is not only economic, it is also political and it supports us. It also supports our NATO military contacts and relations. It supports our Euro-Atlantic policy. We're on two legs. On the one hand, the European Union The economy, the economy. But we're on the other leg militaryly. That's the Euro-Atlantic alliance. NAFTA, I was a little interested in it. Well, NAFTA has all benefited, and Mexico has benefited. Growth in Mexico after NAFTA is much faster than growth in the United States. There's been a transfer of entire sectors of the economy to Mexico. I have therefore heard voices that the United States has lost on this because problems on the labour market have increased. So let's not be afraid, let's not be afraid to open, let's not be afraid to cooperate. Of course you have to look at the dangers. But if the food of the European Union is better and Polish food is the best in the European Union and Europe is buying Polish food, Canada will buy European food. If she's better. 'Cause it's not just the price that plays a role. When there is a certain level of wealth, quality also plays a role. Everybody's looking for better food then, not cheaper. And finally. In this case, the Government of Law and Justice applied a runway: 2/3 is to vote in favour of this agreement. So that's how the opposition has to vote. And I will wonder how the opposition will vote, I wonder how the opposition will vote, since coalition representatives, as I hear from Senator Chróścikowski, want to vote against. So, what, with our hands, you want to do it? If the government believes that this agreement should be implemented, if the ruling party considers that this agreement should be implemented, it will ensure, I hope, that most, especially in its group, in the governing group. And if you want to throw responsibility at us and introduce the principle to the vote 2/3, then also introduce the 2/3 rule in relation to other laws, also very important, e.g. on the next resolution act on the Constitutional Court. There you go, we can talk about it. So, High Izbo, I do not see any desire to open, but of course I see a desire to involve the opposition in this. Although, of course, this is a kind of agreement that is worth supporting. But, as I say, when I hear statements like Senator Chróścikowski, even though I am in favour, I wonder... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u309	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Elephant, for the second time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u310	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I'd like to warn you not to look at CETA in terms of political gain, because it's going to hurt all of us. If we are to gain acceptance in society, or at least a fair assessment of what it will bring to us, we should show it firm arguments, and we should hope for the maturity of society, that it will draw from these arguments maybe not an average, but an appropriate conclusion, and that it will recognise the reasons of those who will make the final decision. This decision, I admit, is not easy because we feel that we are under great pressure from the public, we feel that they are trying to play something on this different environments à la populist. But we are also aware that this is one of the most important decisions that Poland's government and parliament have made in recent years. As Marshal Borusewicz said, this is an atrium for something even more difficult, that is to say a deal with the United States. But none of us will take that responsibility off. The negotiation process lasted for years, for the previous coalition. ♪ I don't know what the result is ♪ This was the case. But the final decision will be taken by this government, and probably by this parliament, when it decides to ratify or not to ratify it by a two-thirds majority. I'd like to talk about one more argument. Maybe he's not important to everyone, but he's a bit important to me, though he seems perverse. Because if I hear that great concern for the fate of the European Union, including Poland, after the signature and ratification of the CETA agreement, shows the Russian Federation, also through its opinion-making media, I wonder whether this alone does not indicate that it can be a positive agreement, because somehow it can harm the interests of the Russian Federation. Because somehow they don't show that they're imposing an embargo with one snap, and they don't know why or why, or when they're making up reasons that aren't rational, or when they're running gas pipes over our heads to get past our country and to first of all ensure a market, a safe market, bypassing any difficulties that might arise in the future. That's why even this argument and these economic-political alliances that are made somewhere far away and affect the economic, political, military alliances in the world... Therefore, these arguments also point to the need to carefully consider whether the approach to this agreement seems appropriate. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u311	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I can say yes because I've been a little provoked... Why am I telling the government today to think about it? 'Cause tomorrow, the minister said it, but I already knew it before. The Prime Minister is on her way to make a decision... That's why today I have the courage to talk about my position as I present it. That's why I'm being cautious, because I'm afraid I have a right to be afraid and my farmers have a right to be afraid because this isn't about resort policy. It's about food safety, which means it's not a matter of the Ministry, it's about the state. We need to be aware of what food security and food quality mean. That's two concepts. We strive for quality and food security depends on the global economy. Today is a difficult economic situation in agriculture not because the government is misruled, but because the world markets control, as far as food prices are concerned, the embargo imposed... Today, farmers get less than 600 PLN or 550 PLN for grain, and they take 1,000 PLN for grain. Okay, well, compare... They were taking loans, investing, hoping that wheat would be $1,000 each, and today it's less than 600 PLN, 550 PLN. And they're supposed to pay according to the business plans they've been assuming. They assumed that the milk would be 2 zlotys or 1.70 zlotys, and they have, and it's for less than a zloty. What makes you decide that? The world market, the global market. They put prices on the stock markets, whether it's in Chicago or Paris or other stock exchanges, and they say, "What's the world price?" We pay you that much, and if we don't, we import it legally. There are still customs duties in force... There is an even greater risk in the case of a picture of customs duties, both sides, of course, but there is a risk. The European Union has applied the principle of subsidies to compensate for the differences in costs... Because these are two things, climate and soil, which are different. As far as climate is concerned, harvests can be harvested twice in one region, and harvests can barely be harvested once in the other region only of poorer quality. Let's look at Finland, what the harvest looks like there. That's why there's these differences. We are putting up with these barriers, and we want to put up with them, because the Union is moving towards the WTO and the provisions saying that there should be no subsidies. So we're abolishing customs duties, equalizing... How will we compete in the European Union? I'm not the only one who's thinking about it. We are discussing the direction in which we are going throughout the Union. Someone's gonna make it work because there's no void, somebody's gonna make it work... That's why I'm worried. Second thing. Mr. Marshal, we're not dragging you into any trouble. The treaty was overruled by the votes of the PiS. There was a vote here, too, in the Senate. With the voices of the PiS, this treaty, that is, the mini-constitution, giving up some of the sovereignty... We're going to partially give up sovereignty today, too. I asked you what's gonna happen when it's signed, who's gonna decide... Can Poland leave? No, he's not gonna back off. This is giving part of economic sovereignty, commercial sovereignty. It has therefore been rightly established that the decision is taken by a majority of 2/3 of the votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u313	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Radosław Domagalski-Łabędzki: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much to Minister Radosław Domagalski-Łabędzki, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, for presenting information to the Senate. Thank you very much, Minister. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u314	The following joint meetings of the committee will be held in room 217 tomorrow. At 8.00 a.m., the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on proposals submitted at second reading to the draft appeal to the United Kingdom Parliament. At 8.30 a.m. the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Culture and Media on proposals submitted at second reading to the draft law amending the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on proposals submitted to the Act on Out-of-court Consumer Dispute Resolution will take place on 20 October at 8.30 in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-senat-28-1.u315	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Meeting adjourned at 23 minutes 22]]
