ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] Hello, all Members. I would like to appoint Mr Wojciech King, Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha, Mr Piotr Olszówka and Mr Luke Schreiber to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Piotr Olszówka and Mr Łukasz Schreiber. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Arkadiusz Myrch and Łukasz Schreiber. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The pastoral ministry of parliamentarians warmly invites ladies and gentlemen to the Lent Retreat which will take place on 16, 17 and 18 March. On Wednesday 16 March and Thursday 17 March the retreat will take place in the church of St. St. Aleksandra at the Three Crosses Square in Warsaw at 3 p.m. 20. On the third day, i.e. March 18th, retreats will take place at hours. 7.15 in the Seym Chapel. I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Legally, at about an hour. 11.30, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 12, - Senior policy together with the Health Commission - at 3 p.m. 12.30, - National and Ethnic Minorities - at hours. 13, - Agriculture and Rural Development - at 3 p.m. 13, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - at 3 p.m. 14, - to Energy and Treasury - at 3 p.m. 14, - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 14, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 15, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Public Finance, together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, at 3 p.m. 4:30 p.m., - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 17, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - at 3 p.m. 18. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: nurses, midwives and other healthcare professionals - at 3 p.m. 11.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Children - at 3 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Team of Tradition and Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers - at 3 p.m. 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u3	Thank you, sir. I consider the minutes of the 12th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Commission for the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and certain other laws. The project is print number 289. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws to suspend the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Stock of the State Treasury and to amend certain laws and to amend the Act on Public Blood Service and certain other laws. These projects are, respectively, prints No 293 and 294. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on: - a draft law on the suspension of the sale of real estate of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury, - presented by the Council of Ministers with a report on the implementation of the National Family Violence Action Programme for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014, - a report by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law of 4 February 2011 on childcare up to 3 years old in 2014, - presented by the Polish Language Council on the state of protection of the Polish language for the years 2012-2013. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the reports on draft resolutions in prints No 254 and 255. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the consequences of the reform of the criminal process, which was requested by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and certain other laws (prints Nos 274 and 279).
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u4	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It has been my honour to present the position of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development vis-à-vis the parliamentary draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws, print No 274. The project concerns the establishment of a regulation whereby a legal title to the land will be required to obtain direct payments to agricultural parcels forming part of the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury. Why do you have to do that? Well, High Izbo, in recent years, according to the Agricultural Property Agency, there have been abuses of direct payments... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u5	I am very sorry, Members, but I would like to ask for silence in the Chamber so as not to disturb the Member. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u6	There have been abuses involving the fact that direct payments to certain land were applied for by entities which had been unlawfully owned or owned by them without a legal title, in addition against the will of the Agricultural Property Agency. This is the situation, High Izbo, which is unacceptable, especially when the main objective of such an unacceptable action is to obtain support in the form of direct payments and not to carry out agricultural activities on the ground concerned. According to data from the Agricultural Property Agency, these irregularities occurred in about 1000 cases. The area occupied by unconventional users as at 30 September 2015 was just over 3000. ha. There have also been reports of a refusal to issue real estate after the termination of lease contracts. As of September 2015, the area of such unspent land was almost 9 000. ha. This situation generates, High Izbo, measurable financial losses for the Agricultural Property Agency, and this draft law will sort out these important issues. How will it be verified by another agency, by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, to have a legal title for the parcel concerned when applying for payment? Well, High Izbo, this matter was discussed at the committee meeting and today we know that this verification will take place by signing an appropriate statement by the beneficiary who will apply for these payments. We already know that the Ministry of Agriculture has prepared an appropriate regulation on this issue. This statement will make it much easier for the agency, which is the payer, that is, ARMIR, to verify this legal title that we have been talking about. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development carried out its first reading and examined the draft law at its meeting on 25 February 2016. At that meeting, amendments were tabled and adopted to clarify the deadline for determining the legal title for the agricultural parcel as at 31 May of the year concerned and to allow the decision and payment to be amended without the agreement of the party if the amount of the payment granted is higher than the amount due. On behalf of the committee, I request the adoption of the draft law in print No 279 so that the law can enter into force on 15 March 2016, i.e. in a few days. Why on this day? This is the first day of the 2016 payment application period. That is why it is so important to proceed with this bill as soon as possible, as the High House is asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u7	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the law... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u9	Mr. President, I'm sorry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u10	... payments under direct support schemes and certain other laws, prints No 274 and 279. The proposed solutions will serve to prevent abuse in the financing of the common agricultural policy. They consist, i.e., of these abuses, of the fact that the Agricultural Property Agency does not fully control the holding of agricultural land of the Treasury, which results in a significant proportion of it being used without agreement. It is not only that uncontracting users do not pay rentals, exposing the State Treasury to multi-million losses, yet they report illegally occupied land for payments carried out by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, thus extorting huge amounts. In addition to the Treasury, Polish farmers who have been deprived of the possibility to lease or purchase these land are also affected. And who's the beneficiary of this? From the NIK reports we know that unlawful use of the state land has become a common phenomenon, often of an organized nature. We know of cases where companies that cultivate the so-called. agricultural piracy through illegal occupation of dozens - or even several setthektar parcels and the collection of subsidies. It is particularly shocking that agricultural agency workers were also among the beneficiaries, which is an obvious misuse of public functions and should be particularly severely punished. This phenomenon is one of the pathologies of the Polish state in recent years, with which the Platform and PSL coalition could not or did not want to cope. And this problem has been known for many years, it has been reported by farmers, by some media and, of course, by Members of the Law and Justice Committee. It's like a pea against a wall. Coalition politicians Platform and PSL did not take action to protect the interests of the State Treasury. Those figures remained even when they remained in mid-2014. NIK announced a control report on the protection of agricultural land of the Treasury against unauthorised use, in which among others. a request has been made to the Minister of Agriculture to undertake work on amending the Act on direct payments in such a way that the provisions of that Act prevent the granting of aid for unlawful agricultural land of the State Treasury. This signal was also ignored and until the end of its reign, Platform and PSL politicians tolerated this pathological phenomenon. Contrary to the recommendation, the NIK did not close the legal gap. The assessment of this passiveness is clear and has likely influenced the results of the parliamentary elections. It is only the parliamentary bill prepared by my parliamentary club that implements the recommendations of NIK, which will lead to the elimination of the payment of subsidies to the unlawful land of the State Treasury, will also contribute to the management of resources by the Agricultural Property Agency and will increase the revenue of the State Treasury. The essence of our project is to introduce the principle that the direct payment to the agricultural parcel forming part of the Agricultural Property Resource of the State Treasury is entitled to a farmer who has a legal title for that parcel. The amendment concerns three laws: firstly, the Act on payments under direct support schemes, secondly, the Act on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development in the framework of the 2007 to 2013 RDPs and the corresponding Act on RDPs for the period 2014 to 2020. The introduction of this change will contribute to the Sanctification of another sphere of public life. The opponents of this regulation are covered by EU law. However, the Court of Justice of the European Union stated in its judgment of 2010 that Community legislation does not prohibit Member States from imposing a legal title confirming the applicant's right to use the areas covered by the payment request under national law. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, as an applicant, will of course support this draft law at third reading. I also ask other clubs, opposition clubs to support him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u11	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Arthur Dunin, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no one from the ministry. [[Voice from the room: You're the minister.]] Are you the Minister? Oh, hello, Minister. You're not on government benches. Hello, Minister. [[Almost like a Messenger from Modern.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform Club leaned over the problem of illegal land use. I just wanted to remind Mr Dolata that the previous coalition has minimized this action, for example, by a law on the shaping of the agricultural system. In August 2015, we voted. That is all I would like to remind him that we need to know what we are voting on. [[Effectively.]] On the other hand, assuming that there are still such developments, such farmers who use such a thing that they misuse the land and charge subsidies for it, the Civic Platform Club has prepared an amendment because you have prepared a change to the law that is incompatible with European Union law. The Civic Platform Club must, of course, correct your mistakes as every time. I hope that this amendment will be accepted by you, by the majority of the parliament, because it improves what you have ruined. I want to tell you that we are facing a majority of the Parliament. We will want to eliminate this bad practice completely, but not in the way you have proposed. You do so that you limit it only to certain farmers, and at the same time you want them all to be thieves. We don't agree to that. Our amendment will apply to all persons who will apply for direct payments on the basis of a declaration on the right to land use. The Civic Platform Club, if this amendment passes, will be in favour of such changes. I'm handing over an amendment to the Civic Platform Club to your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u13	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u14	Marshal, thank you very much. Minister, I hope that this amendment we have tabled will be supported by the majority. [[I'll respond to you.]] Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, the Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u16	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft law on payments under direct support schemes and certain other laws. The changes contained in the project are undoubtedly going in the right direction. For many years the Polish state has been helpless and the last governments have not been interested in preparing the relevant regulations. It is a practice involving the unlawful, uncontracting use of land belonging to the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and the application for direct payments to such land. Under the law in force, direct payments to land are granted to an entity that actually carries out agricultural activities on them. The provisions do not specify whether an applicant for aid must have a right to land. Therefore, in order to obtain the payment, it was not necessary to be the owner or land tenant, and only to demonstrate the use of the land. The provisions thus formulated provide an open door to all kinds of dishonesty, fraud and abuse. These cases concern mainly two groups of farmers. The first is the tenants who do not give up the land and continue to use it, the second group are farmers, as well as the commercial law companies established for this purpose, who specialize in such activities and unscrupulously, often under the cover of the night, enter the state-owned field and sow them. It is difficult to determine what specific amounts go to the hands of dishonest tenants, but it is estimated that since 2004 approximately PLN 200 million of subsidies could have been extorted in this way. However, in addition to the losses incurred by the European Union budget, the Treasury is also affected, to which fees for leased land should influence. The Supreme Audit Chamber calculated that only in the area of 19 audited units between 2009 and 2012 did not receive PLN 30 million from the State budget for the use of State land. Across the country, this could affect at least 12% of the population. areas belonging to the State Treasury. These are huge losses that the state budget cannot afford. I would like to stress that the scale and type of irregularities mentioned show that there is a need for multi-directional action that is much broader than that proposed in the project. The draft of this Act treats the problem of non-contractual use of land belonging to the State too superficially, focusing solely on preventing aid from being received by persons other than the tenant. However, the problem lies deeper and also concerns other aspects of illegal land use. This is mainly a very difficult procedure for the recovery of the land occupied without a legal basis. Legal provisions do not allow the rightful owner, the State on whose behalf the Agricultural Property Agency operates, to remove from the land a farmer who, despite the absence of a lease agreement, sowes a field. In addition, the fact that the police or the prosecutor's office in most cases do not intervene makes the case difficult and such cases are most often resolved. This gives dishonest farmers a way to prolong such a pathological situation. The protection of the Agency's rights should be strengthened so that you manage your public wealth quickly and efficiently. Another issue which has not been regulated in the project is the recovery of unlawful aid for land used without a legal basis. There can be no agreement to reward pseudo-farmers who break the law in such reprehensible ways. Finally, the recurring problem of computerisation. The lack of coherent, transparent actions in this area generates further manipulations, fraud and horrendous costs for the Treasury. An effective system for the exchange of data between agricultural agencies and the Ministry should be put in place. Although the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture had already concluded an agreement some time ago to strengthen cooperation in order to eliminate the phenomenon of unconventional occupation of land, yet, as we can see, it was once again sham action. I hope that the applicants will take into account the comments submitted and that, in the course of the committee work, we will take them into account in the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u17	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present, if you will allow me, the position of the Modern Club in relation to the draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws, print No 274. In recent years, there has been an increase in the number of irregularities when applying for direct payments. Many times today it has been stressed that this has actually increased, and therefore the initiative to limit it is absolutely right. The aid provided by the European Agricultural Fund under the Rural Development Programme has been passed on to persons or entities for this purpose completely unauthorised on several occasions. The Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture accepting applications for aid did not require the presentation of a legal title to agricultural parcels subject to aid, it was sufficient that the person or entity had shown that they were using the parcel concerned. Sometimes it was limited to a good cause only to mowing grass or ploughing such an area. This situation has happened many times in the case of land from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. Unfair applicants submitted applications without any legal basis for the use and cultivation of these land. The land's outstanding legal status, as indicated in the applications for aid, was also used. I would like to stress here that, of course, this direction is very good, but we must take into account that, as far as the Agricultural Property Agency is concerned, there are also land within its resources, for which property matters have not yet been settled, i.e.. The agency has them in its power, whereas the records in the perpetual books are not yet fully clarified in many cases, so that it is a suggestion to also lean on the fact that, at the moment when the tenant is applying for a lease, property matters in this respect are also regulated. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this practice did not only relate to land which belongs to the State Treasury, but there were also accidents that dishonest farmers, companies which were organized to extort these subsidies, occupied private areas. The question is whether it would be worth considering whether the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture should also require a statement on the right to land in private parcels. Such a declaration is signed under criminal responsibility and, therefore, perhaps such a solution would result in a reduction of the abuses in question. I would also like to stress that these measures aim to reduce fraud both from the legal side and in terms of financial losses, because this type of action is undoubtedly causing losses to the State Treasury as a result of the fact that these subsidies should go to the State Treasury. But there is also what has been highlighted here: the occupation of such an area causes the inability of a farmer to lease it, who would make such a suggestion. So, given that we assume that this solution is only a partial solution to this problem, I will respond to the call of the parliamentary majority for opposition clubs to support this project. It is the right thing to do, therefore the club It will support this law and vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u19	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Marek Sawicki, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present our position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and certain other laws. I would like to mention at the beginning that the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support this amendment, but I would also like to remind you that it is not so that over the last period it has not been tried with this problem and this practice which in some sense arose and fought. First of all, I would like to remind you about the penalties for the non-contractual use by the Agricultural Property Agency that they were used. Secondly, perhaps the tardiness of the police and prosecutor's office in this area was too great, too mildly addressed to these problems, but I would also like to say that in the law, the amendment of the law on the shaping of the agricultural system of September, which was suspended as regards its application, also these solutions for sealing the management of the land of the Agricultural Property Agency were raised. Lawyers believe that issues relating to direct payments are defined by an EU regulation and that this priority should be given to the farmer, the actual user, but there have actually been cases where there have been breaches of ownership, non-contractual infringements of ownership. The issue of a declaration on the functioning or ownership of the land of the Agricultural Property Agency seems to me to be a good solution, which this gap or this legal obligation of the Union bypasses, but I would be careful about the issue which Mr Meysztowicz has reported, so that all this law and all these solutions can also be extended to private farmers and private land. [[Mr Dunin spoke of it.]] We know how far unregulated we have property issues in family matters, in joint ownership matters, so the farmer's submission of an application for direct payment is already a declaration of his use of these land and if the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture finds that he is not a user, he has the right to recover and withdraw payments. So, once again, I offer my support and thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u21	Thank you very much, sir. 11 Members have joined the questions. Anyone else want to join the list? If so, please. I'm about to close the list. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz Club15, first, please. Question time - 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The provisions do not specify whether an applicant for aid must have a right to land. This raises concerns about the continued practice of non-contractual use of land belonging to the State Treasury's Agricultural Property Resources and the application for direct payments. Those farmers, landowners, and the state budget suffer from this. How do you intend to eliminate this criminal activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u23	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This has already been said here, while the data mentioned here are not detailed. I have a question for the Minister whether a report has been drawn up to determine the losses to the State Treasury so far and what was the extent of these irregularities and these abuses, so that we simply realize what losses to the State Treasury we are talking about. I have yet to comment on Mr Sawicki's statement. Well, I'm aware that when you apply for a subsidy, you claim to be a user, but it's like, if you go into a foreign area, you're actually a user. The point is, this is a statement about the right to dispose. This is the fundamental difference, because the statement of the right to have signed under criminal responsibility is more powerful, so those who use it and do not have the right to do so will wonder whether they really take such action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u25	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems indisputable that if someone uses someone else's property, in this case agricultural property, they should regulate it with the owner of the property, especially as they benefit from it, also the very important benefits of EU payments. It seems that this is outside the discussion, and I think we all agree on that. Indeed, this legislative change concerns the perceived weakness of the state, which was unable to enforce certain, as I mentioned, undisputed rules for the use of other people's property. As Mr Dolata mentioned on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, a pathological phenomenon has emerged on a large scale: not only some small real estate, but on the contrary, large real estate, and it was often from the indication of the employees of the Agricultural Property Agency, that they were invaded, invaded, ploughed, to obtain significant subsidies, large EU subsidies. This cannot be the case, the weakness of the state in this area must be eliminated. This bill is definitely going in that direction. There is, of course, a problem also mentioned by Minister Sawicki, the irregular status of many and, according to the Ministry, more than 240 thousand. small parcels that are scattered somewhere in the area of the Polish village, which often have several, several dozen acres. They should be long gone to interested farmers, mostly neighbors, who mow grass on these parcels, in some way use them. There may be some sense of injustice in these users of small parcels that they have enjoyed for so many years, now they would have to pay some kind of symbolic punishment, but that doesn't change the fact, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's got to be settled. The question to the Minister: First of all, how can we eliminate the problem of these small scattered guns, which should have ceased to be a problem for many years? And as a rule, the use of someone else's property must be agreed with the owner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u27	Thank you very much, sir. [[Was it marked? Thrilling applause.]] [[I'll join Mr. Christopher.]] I invite Mr. Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The whole of this law works between the farmer and the country. The State is such a stronger partner in this action, and so there are other civil proceedings, and there are other administrative procedures. Since the State is the stronger side, I wanted to ask the Minister whether these additional powers of the State, this stronger side, will not reduce the possibility for farmers to assert their rights. In addition to these raids there are situations, and such information affects e.g. to the parliamentary offices when farmers are properly used, in the sense of the title of use of these land, lease agreements, and yet they cannot use these land, are the agency. Doesn't this law make it harder for farmers to enforce their rights when they used them, for example. These land, leases, this lease has been declared illegal and there is a dispute going on? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What happens then? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u29	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club. Are you an MP? There isn't. In that case, I would like to ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Supreme Audit Chamber in its 2014 report on the control of the protection of agricultural land of the Treasury against unauthorised use has made numerous requests to various state authorities. I mentioned this in my speech on behalf of the club. Now, I would like to ask you: Do you accept that the request of the NIK to the Minister of Justice to work on tightening sanctions for the unlawful seizure of someone else's unprotected land and to make the prosecution of the perpetrator independent of the earlier call to leave the illegally occupied area? If so, I would ask for an appropriate initiative in the work of the Council of Ministers. I am convinced that the revision of the Criminal Code in this respect would allow for a much more effective fight against the unconventional use of State Treasury land. Currently Art. 193 The Penal Code provides protection only in the event of entry into the fenced area. In turn, the article. 157 The Code of Offences, which also ensures protection of the unprotected area, provides only for a fine of up to 500 zlotys or reprimands, and in determining the responsibility of the perpetrator, it is important that he is physically present in that area, which makes it actually impossible to apply criminal sanctions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u32	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the context of this bill, I wanted to ask you this. What is the issue of the useless ones in the administration of the agency, and does the agency use these useless ones to obtain subsidies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u33	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! My question remains unchanged, both in the Legislative Committee and in the Agriculture Committee. The question is: Will you be willing to support the amendment so that farmers are not forced to provide the legal basis for land leases or additional documents that they must bring to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture? Isn't it enough to cover all farmers with a statement that they can sign at these offices without burdening them with additional, unnecessary, bureaucratic matters? We talked about this during the committee's work. The Minister said it would be included in the regulation. However, we will continue to insist that this should not be mandatory for tenants only, as it is a matter of documents, as this undermines the EU's equality law. It would have been enough to actually amend this amendment that we are making. Will the Minister be willing to include her? The amendment, which will cover these two disadvantages, i.e. it will apply to all farmers, will not divide farmers into those who are tenants and those who are owners. These farmers will only have to sign a declaration that they have such a legal basis. It is clear to draw consequences from a false statement. Let us not punish farmers who are honest in farming on leased land for the fact that there are a group of dishonest people. Let us not let the official decide that another document must be submitted by the farmer. Either it will be one or not, or it will fit, just a simple statement available in each AriMR is enough. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u35	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are debating a very important issue both for Polish farmers and for the State Treasury. My clubmate, Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, pointed to the weakness of the state with regard to the existing legislation in this area. Today we hear translations of the predecessors, the then ruling Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. I wanted to ask, Minister, if it is true that the predecessors, representatives of the Civic Platform Government and the Polish People's Party, did not take any action to stop or even eliminate the payment of subsidies to the land belonging to the Treasury without having legal titles to them. This has put the Treasury at risk of financial losses. Did the previous ruling crew, or did the Ministry of Agriculture, intervene effectively in this matter? Today, we are hearing about the imposition of responsibility on the police or law enforcement authorities in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u37	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Tomasz Kostusia, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u38	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What is the actual scale of abuse of applicants for direct payments that have taken possession of land unlawfully or contrary to the owner's will? Why does the project require a legal title - for the purpose of granting the aid - only for land which is part of the Treasury's Agricultural Property Resource does not apply to all applicants? And finally, one last question. How does the Ministry intend to address the issue of the non-compliance of the draft law with European Union law, as clearly and clearly demonstrated in its opinion by the Sejm Analysis Office? I am replying: to adopt immediately an important and necessary amendment tabled by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u39	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Arthur Dunin, the Civic Platform Club, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will try to ask a question similar to that of the Member. Minister, is it true that in the Act which was adopted by the Sejm of the previous term, recommended by the previous coalition, there were records about this - about securing the property of the State Treasury in respect of persons, to farmers who used this land not in accordance with the requirements, i.e. without a lease agreement... [[Not farmers, crooks.]] ...and is it true that this coalition stopped this bill? That's one thing. I would very much ask you to answer that question. And the other is so much more serious and substantial. Minister, I'm really asking you to analyze this. an amendment tabled by me, by the Civic Platform Club, because it is not possible to act in such a way that everyone is considered to be crooks. I do not mean to say: thieves, but in fact the use of land, if you do not have the right to own it, can be regarded as stealing in some way. And here's the full agreement. On the other hand, will this solution, which we have proposed, just this statement of each applicant, not be sufficient in this case? I would very much ask for serious consideration of this amendment, even now. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[I really enjoyed this speech. It was great.]] [[Arthur or mine?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u41	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Leszek Korzeniowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Membership! Minister! In fact, it was only because direct payments were introduced that the Agency found out how many parcels it had in the form of unused or undeveloped. So that speaking of this, a positive element can be drawn from this pathology. [[Well, that's the conclusion.]] And you here, Minister, or the applicants have written that at the end of 2014, which is relatively long time ago, there were 54 600 such lease agreements covering an area of more than a million, nearly 1,100 thousand. ha. Today is 2016, March. I would like to know whether this process is moving forward or downwards, whether the number of contracts concluded is decreasing or increasing as a result of the agency's activities, whether the Treasury is losing or gaining. And here I'd like to return actually... I'd like to join my colleagues... [[And my friends, too.]] ...and my friends, of course... [[Thank you.]] ...and support the request that the government accept it. This is, indeed, the opposition's motion, but let's be constructive at this point. Minister, we very much ask you to accept this proposal and answer whether this trend I was talking about is growing or decreasing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u43	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that at the end of this discussion it is already heard that there is certainly a need to regulate the subject, and everyone is in line with it. However, I wanted to ask during this discussion whether there is a government plan to regulate the same issue also with regard to private land and not only to the Agricultural Property Agency. Does the government also plan to extend this type of activity to private land? Because we know there's a need for that, too. And what about the land for which ANR itself does not have a regulated ownership relationship? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u45	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Zbigniew Babalski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister responsible for agriculture is not the owner of this bill, but the questions were addressed to me, so I will try to answer these questions. Only the right addressee, honourable Members, should be the designers. [[But you're an envoy, too.]] Yeah, except I'm not the designer of this bill. Let's not argue. For each of these questions that have been asked here, you will receive a detailed written reply. I'll address the matter in general. Members who have worked in the Committee on Agriculture over the last two terms of office know this very well and know that this is not something new and extraordinary. Such questions were raised here - I will not mention my fellow Members - whether there were any actions taken by the government of PO-PSL, mainly regarding the Polish People's Party, because it was responsible for the area of agriculture. I would therefore like to respond - to the transcripts of the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture - that there have been initiatives, but I would like to make this clear. I myself took this initiative, presented solutions, and this can be found in the minutes of the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture. It seemed to me at the time that these were simple solutions and it could just be introduced. We bounced off the wall - that we could not, that EU law, that we should not touch such things, because we have no right. When I gave an example that the field office of the Agricultural Property Agency in Olsztyn hired protection that he paid for a day of 1,000. zł, so that security guards would guard the land - state land, which is prepared for lease or sale, they said that this is impossible. I say, yes, because they can't deal with it, they've been reporting it for two years that they're coming up with so-called. agropirates who say they're doing agribusiness. They'd come, they'd bring the whole set on the pallets. [[Pallets of what?]] From the moment payment applications came in, from March 15th, it was selected - and there is evidence in the field office in Olsztyn - on Sunday, there was even a coincidence that on the first day of the Holy Night it was done, because security guards were just celebrating in their homes. It's funny what I'm saying, but these are facts. And then what happened? They presented one or two witnesses, went to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and charged fees. [[Extras.]] Extras. That's what happened. The Minister present here, the previous Minister, knew this because we reported it on the agricultural committee, I gave concrete examples. I was hoping that it would actually be cut short, unfortunately, it went the way it went. It was thought that in 2011, we would be punishing them with 20 times the rent on the farm property management bill. Who's gonna pay? Nobody. He just doesn't have that kind of money. It's written: 5 times. It's very difficult to enforce, too, very difficult. We just went... This, too, is not something new, which I am talking about because, I repeat, especially the Members who were in the previous term of office in the agriculture committee, we said that if we had the opportunity, we would take this subject and proceed to the protection of the land which is in the ownership of the state. The state owns this land. The ultimate goal we have set is to protect the state land, and this law goes in this direction. I will not answer you whether this amendment will be accepted or not, because Parliament's representatives, Members, are the owners of this law. The amendment is tabled, it goes to the committee. [[Opinions.]] [[Government's opinion.]] You'll get an opinion from the government at the committee meeting. Here's the situation: on the one hand, the Ministry gets charges, e.g. When we work on the bill, which we will be discussing tomorrow, there will probably be an interesting discussion about stopping the sale of land in the resource, that in this law we are interfering too much in private land trading. [[And on a private model.]] And here, knowing that, you want to come in... [[No, we don't, they do.]] ...what a fellow Minister has said, in the situation - I am talking about the Civic Platform - with this amendment - this is where you are aware that for many, many years, we are only 3 months old, we are not fully regulated with regard to ownership of the land. [[But why are you punishing the farmers?]] Until we settle this... I'm not gonna finish that sentence. We can do more damage than good by entering this bill. I repeat, this is a matter of business. Maybe there'll be a time, ladies and gentlemen, maybe there'll be a time in this term that we can tell you who hasn't given up the land for almost 10 years, even though the deal is over. Maybe there'll be a time. We'll show you if we have to. They are also people who used to have quite high functions, including state functions. [[Let's talk right now.]] [[But why not a statement?]] We have to... We want to settle this by law first. [[We agree, but the statements...]] That should be... [[Game in the O.R.]] But we'll discuss it on the committee, ladies and gentlemen. Please. [[That's right.]] We want first, first, to take care of what I said at the beginning - the land that is in stock. That's the direction, and that's what we're gonna stick to. As for non-compliance, someone has accused, because, in fact, in the conclusion, the opinion states that it is against EU law. Depends on who interprets it. I will also read you this paragraph from this opinion. [[We read it.]] I will read because I suspect that not all of them have read: The condition of having a legal title for land declared for payment does not come directly from the provisions of European Union law. That's consistent. The following sentence reads: European Union law provides that payments are granted to an entity that actually... Which, in fact, it is. What does it really mean? For me, it's a constant job on this land... [[But that's not the point.]] ...not in one night to make one agricultural crop and go get some subsidies. Is that real? Where's the logic here? ...who actually carries out agricultural activities on land declared for payment. And last sentence: These land must remain, I repeat, actually owned by the farmer on the date fixed by the Member States. I think it's a question of interpretation of this opinion, too, and any one of us can interpret it differently. If we're talking about actual events here, I think these actual events are pretty clear when it comes to definitions, shown. I repeat: discussion in committee. I'm ready to discuss it with you. You'll get a written answer to every question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u47	Thank you very much. Do you, the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Piotr Polak, still want to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for the extensive discussion on this important bill and I would like to say in summary that we welcome, applicants, the willingness to regulate, to repair this state, which has been so far, and which concerned land that is in the Treasury's resources. The situation was indeed unacceptable. Some of you here used the words "criminals," etc. It really shouldn't go on like this, and it can't. That's why we filed this bill. The Minister announced that as regards specific questions, he would address any person asking in writing. I would like to draw attention to one more thing and answer the question, because the last Member, Mrs Hennig-Kloska, asked if there was an irregular legal status of the land in ANR's resources, the Agricultural Property Agency. If we read in the justification of this project, we will find that such land with an irregular legal status in the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury is not present. The Agricultural Property Agency has a regulated legal status for each property, it owns the State Treasury - every, even the smallest property mentioned here. Because the agency has the legal status of all the land at the disposal of the State Treasury, we refer in this bill only to those land. Why not all the land? You also asked and proposed to settle this under this law. Well, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, unfortunately, is not so good at trading private land owned by individuals, individuals. There are many cases, we don't have the data here, but there's a lot of unregulated agricultural land in the legal trade. There are many cases, many years of succession, and there is no single owner. There's a lot of land, for all kinds of reasons. Landowners often cannot confirm that they have an appropriate document to confirm ownership as regards the land concerned. Therefore, we do not generalise this to all beneficiaries who apply for direct payments, but to those who apply for direct payments to land in the Treasury's Agricultural Property Resources. I think if we were to generalize it to everyone, make these statements... Because, of course, as far as the statement is concerned, as was the discussion on the agricultural committee, we are responding to this proposal, and we want this statement to work as much as possible. As I said, Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister has already prepared this regulation on the model statement and it will be ready for 15 March. This will indeed make it easier for these beneficiaries to submit applications to the ARiMR, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. On the other hand, for the reasons mentioned above, I said that, however, there are many outstanding lease agreements in this individual trade, or there are no confirmations that the land is available by the farmer concerned so that we do not comply with this requirement. Of course, there will certainly be a broad discussion on the amendment on the Committee on Agriculture. That's it. I also wanted to thank everyone at this point for the discussion and for their favour, for leaning on this matter to settle by 15 March, because it is indeed necessary, urgent and ruthless. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u49	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We move on to the next item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and some other laws (Print No 275). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Tadeusz Kościński to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to the High House a draft law amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and some other laws. The basic objective of the draft law is to transpose the Directive on explosives intended for civil use and the two Directives on pyrotechnic articles - Directive 2013/29/EU of 12 June 2013 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market of pyrotechnic articles, Directive 2014/28/EU of 26 February 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market and control of explosives intended for civil use, Directive 2014/58/EU of 16 April 2014 establishing, in accordance with Directive 2007/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, a system for the traceability of pyrotechnic articles. These Directives have been developed to strengthen the safety of the use of explosives for civil use and pyrotechnic articles in accordance with so-called standards. a new approach, as well as reducing threats to outsiders and property and the environment. In addition, the Directives aim to fully harmonise the rules on explosives for civil use and pyrotechnic articles within the European Union, thus facilitating intra-Community trade in such articles. In particular, the transposition of the Directives requires the amendment of the Act on Explosives for Civil Use, which is a fundamental legal act regulating the issue of explosives for civil use and pyrotechnic articles. At the same time, it will also be necessary to issue six regulations of the Minister for Development as implementing acts for the proposed law. They will include in particular provisions on safety issues and conformity assessment procedures which do not constitute a statutory matter. In order to fully transpose the Directive, it was also necessary to amend four other laws, namely: the Act of 22 June 2001 on the pursuit of economic activities in the field of the production and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military and police goods and technology, the Act of 28 October 2002 on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment, the Act of 16 November 2006 on the levy, the Act of 9 June 2011 on geological and mining law. The proposed law also provides for appropriate amendments to the abovementioned laws. Part of the rules resulting from Directive 2013/29/EU and Directive 2014/28/EU, including provisions on accreditation, authorisation and notification of notified bodies, the functioning of the market surveillance system, the control and administrative procedures in the market surveillance system and cooperation between market surveillance authorities and customs authorities, are reflected in the provisions of the draft new Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems recently submitted by the government for consideration by Parliament. The laws on the system of conformity assessment and amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use are therefore a kind of legislative package. The deadline for transposition of the Directives is 30 April 2015 - Directive 2014/58/EU, 30 June 2015 - Directive 2013/29/EU and 19 April 2016 respectively - Directive 2014/28/EU. Since the deadline for implementing Directive 2013/29/EU and Directive 2014/58/EU has already expired, the draft law assumes that the process of examining it will take place quickly. Hence, a short deadline for its entry into force was proposed, i.e. on 1 April 2016 The transposition of the Directives consists essentially in extending and clarifying, and in some cases also in ordering the provisions of the Act on Explosives for Civil Use. The amendments to the Act include the following main problem areas: the obligations of manufacturers, importers and distributors and, in the case of explosives, additionally authorised representatives of manufacturers, to ensure compliance of these products with the essential safety requirements, as well as to inform users of explosives and pyrotechnic articles about the safe use of these products - those regulations have been substantially extended in relation to the current legal situation - the obligations of notified bodies relating to the marking of pyrotechnic articles by means of registration numbers and the keeping of the registration numbers given - it is worth noting that notified bodies, acting in accordance with the relevant harmonised standards, have been in practice for at least 3 years in accordance with the standards laid down in Directive 2014/58/EU - rules for the control of the movement of explosives for civil use and ammunition, including movements through the territory of the Republic of Poland, market surveillance - control tasks for explosives used in mining, which represents 95 the market in Poland, will continue to be carried out by the Higher Mining Authority; the issue of market surveillance of explosives used outside the mining industry, e.g. in demolition works, which will be dealt with by the State Labour Inspection - sanctions for economic operators for failing to comply with the requirements of the Act. The draft law also provides for minor amendments not related to the transposition of directives, with a view to remedying significant shortcomings in the existing legislation. This applies, for example, to Article. 9 Act extending the scope of permits for the acquisition, storage and use of explosives to the manufacture of explosives by the in situ method, i.e. manufactured at the site of use. In Poland, the market for explosives for civil use and pyrotechnic articles is relatively small. It is created by a group of entrepreneurs with no more than 80.85 entities, mostly small companies, and micro-entrepreneurs. Therefore, the application of the proposed regulations will not have a significant impact on the development of the region, the national economy and the labour market. It will, on the other hand, contribute to a slight increase in the revenue of local government units due to the need for the Minister for Development to issue decisions amending the movement of explosives for civil use, as well as the issuance by voivodships and district directors of mining offices of new permits or permits for the acquisition, storage, use or manufacture of explosives in situ. The fees of PLN 82 for issuing the decision of the Minister responsible for the economy to agree to the shipment or PLN 505 in the case of permission of district directors of mining offices to acquire, store or use explosives constitute income of local government units. The increase in income of the JST is estimated at 231 thousand in total. PLN in 10 years. In presenting the above, I kindly ask the High House to refer this proposal to further parliamentary work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Ewa Malik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and certain other laws, Parliamentary Printing No 275. The project aims, which is an important issue, to implement into our national legal system the directive on explosives for civil use and two directives on pyrotechnic articles. The implementation of Directive 2013/29/EU, as well as Directives 2014/28/EU and 2014/58/EU, requires the amendment of the Act of 21 June 2002 on Explosives for Civil Use, referred to in the draft Act on MWC, which is a basic act regulating the issue of explosives for civil uses, referred to in the draft Act MWC, and pyrotechnic articles, called the WP. For this, it is necessary that the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs prepares two regulations for the proposed law containing the provisions implementing the abovementioned provisions. Directives on specific safety requirements and conformity assessment procedures for MWC and WP which are not statutory matter. It is also necessary to amend the provisions of four other laws. The amendments to this law cover the following problem areas. Firstly, it concerns the obligations of producers, importers and distributors of MWC and WP, inter alia. concerning the information of MWC and WP users on the conditions of safe use of these products. Secondly, it is the obligations of notified bodies relating to the WP marking by means of registration numbers and the keeping of a register of the registration numbers given. Thirdly, it is a matter of control of movements of MWC and ammunition, including movements by transit of MWC and ammunition through the territory of the Republic of Poland. Fourthly, MWC market surveillance, control tasks for MWC used in mining, which accounts for up to 98% MWC market in Poland, have been and will continue to be performed by the Higher Mining Authority. However, the issue of supervision of the MWC market used for demolition works has not been regulated, but according to the jurisdiction of the State Labour Inspection. Fifthly, it concerns sanctions for economic operators operating in the MWC and HR area for failing to comply with the requirements of the Act. Directive 2014/28/EU does not regulate age restrictions on access to MWC and therefore Article. 19 point 1 of the Act on MWC was maintained the current lower age limit, i.e. 21 years of age. The draft law also introduces amendments to remove the ambiguities in the existing rules identified in the course of their practical application by public administrations and by economic operators dealing with MWC and WP. In summary, the amendments proposed by the government are intentional and contribute to safeguarding the interests of the Polish state, contribute to increasing the level of safety of citizens, while at the same time users of MWC and WP, as well as to protecting the environment. It can also be concluded that they directly contribute to the elimination of the various obstacles to intra-Community trade. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club will support the provisions of the amended law, print No 275, and recommend its adoption by the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u53	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Civic Platform will support a government bill amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and some other laws. The implementation of the provisions of the Act under consideration results from the need to implement European Union legislation in the national legal order, inter alia. first, Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market of pyrotechnic articles of 12 June 2013 Let me remind you of this regulation. Secondly, this also applies to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market and control of explosives intended for civil use of 26 February 2014. Finally, thirdly, it is the European Commission's implementing directive establishing a system for the traceability of pyrotechnic articles of 16 April 2014. This draft law will, first, apply to the obligations of manufacturers, importers and distributors of pyrotechnic articles, explosives intended for civil use, second, to the obligations of notified bodies with regard to the marking of pyrotechnic articles by means of registration numbers and to the keeping of a register of issued registration numbers, thirdly to the rules for the control of movements of explosives intended for civil use, fourthly to a market surveillance system designed to improve the safety of users, fifthly, the procedures for assessing the conformity of those devices with modules. The implementation of EU legislation in the national legal system will make the European market for explosives for civil use and pyrotechnic articles available to national manufacturers and distributors. Potentially, exports of these products will be increased. This is important information for the domestic market. It is important to ensure the safety of the use of explosives for civil use and pyrotechnic articles. We expect the market for these products to be well described and organised thanks to these proposed rules. The implementation of the new legislation will result in an increase in administrative burdens. Therefore, on behalf of our club, I would like to ask the Minister and get information on the following issues. What will be the cost of keeping records related to the entry in those records of pyrotechnic articles? How will the examination of complaints concerning pyrotechnic articles presenting a risk to the environment be carried out? Finally, how will the cooperation of entrepreneurs with the market control authorities of these products be organised? I would also like to know if the companies involved in explosives for civil use are properly prepared to implement the new regulations which are included in the bill under consideration. Minister, I would also like to know how the marketing of mineral fertilisers will be controlled. Will individual farmers be subject to the rigour of this law? Will farmers who buy mineral fertilisers for their farms be covered by these rigors? What will be the result of these rigors in a practical way for the purchase of mineral fertilisers? Finally, in conclusion, the proposed solutions put the whole process of import, manufacturing, placing on the market of the products we are discussing and controlling the operators involved and for the safety of our citizens, the provisions of this law, in our view, should be implemented in the legal order of the club. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As soon as possible. The Civic Platform will therefore support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u55	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the draft law amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and some other laws with draft implementing acts. According to the applicants, the aim of the project is to organise, clarify, clarify and complement the regulations defining inter alia.: obligations of manufacturers, importers and distributors of pyrotechnic articles and explosives intended for civil use, rules for controlling their movement, additional procedures in the market surveillance system to improve the safety of users, introduction of criminal sanctions for non-compliance with the law, etc. The purpose of these amendments is to implement European Union law involving amendments to the Act on Explosives for Civil Use, the Act on the Production and Trading of Explosives, Arms, Ammunition, Military or Police Purpose Products and Technology, and the Tax Charge Act and several other laws. The proposed amendments significantly broaden the scope of the Act on the rules for issuing and withdrawing authorisations for the manufacture of in situ explosives, the obligations of economic operators relating to the marketing and making available on the market of explosives for civil use and pyrotechnic articles, as well as the obligations of notification bodies and supervisory authorities. The Directive defines the concept of "immunition', but without distinction between military and civilian ammunition, which would require clarification of that definition in the draft legislation on explosives for civil use and the indication that ammunition is used in firearms and artillery weapons for civil use. This would also require adding to the Act the identification of pyrotechnic articles to which the provisions of the Act do not apply - e.g. After all, in the aerospace industry, the rules apply to pyrotechnic articles in aviation and modeling - as well as references to the s.o.z. Act. as regards accreditation, authorisation and notification of notified bodies, the functioning of market surveillance, control and administrative procedures in the market surveillance system and cooperation between market surveillance authorities and customs authorities. It should also be noted that the proposed changes to the law will entail an increase in the administrative burden linked in particular to the marking of pyrotechnic articles with registration numbers and the keeping of a register, the examination and registration of complaints concerning pyrotechnic articles presenting a risk, the requirement of close cooperation between traders and market surveillance authorities, or the introduction of the need for traders to prepare various types of documents related to control and the implementation of post-control applications. Unlike the representatives of previous parties, we have a very negative attitude towards this type of regulation and we clearly note that we are dealing with another implementation, to put it mildly, not intelligent EU legislation, which we are trying to apply quite recklessly on Polish soil. I understand that we are committed to certain things, but we would need some independence here clearly. A similar form of implementation, perhaps even more thoughtless, is an attempt to implement legislation on the marketing of explosives precursors. It seems that this type of legislation is a completely reckless ad hoc response to various kinds of events taking place in Western European countries, which are to show that the European Union is doing whatever it does to improve the safety of its citizens, but without reflecting on the fact that these are completely wrong actions. Once again, under the heading of safety assurance, it is proposed that we extend the scope of control and increase the level of supervision of all aspects of freedom of action, including economic ones in selected aspects. It seems that it is time for us to carefully reflect on our level of state independence and subjectivity and to stop unreflective implementation of various kinds of legislative waste created by European Union bodies on the basis of Polish legislation. To conclude, in this form, this project is unacceptable to us and the rules in question would be suitable for rejection. However, following the principle of democratic legislation, we agree conditionally to send this proposal to the committee in order to thoroughly discuss its general legitimacy and detailed content. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u57	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u58	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Draft Act amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and some other Acts. The regulation of the market for explosives for civil uses is extremely specialised. It aims to put this market under scrutiny by state authorities and to lay down criminal and administrative sanctions for infringements of those rules. The purpose of the regulation is to define procedures to increase safety at the design, manufacture, use and transport stage of explosives. The amendment implements the provisions of the three European Union directives from 2013 to 2014. The basic principles for regulating the market for explosives for civil uses, including pyrotechnic materials and ammunition, should be mentioned at the outset. Pyrotechnics and ammunition are explosives. First, the operator must be authorised to manufacture and store explosives, move and use them, which is governed by the concession law, i.e. the Act of 22 June 2001 on the pursuit of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives: arms, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. Unlicensed activities and concessions constitute a criminal offence. Secondly, the design and manufacture of explosives must comply with the safety requirements laid down in the legislation. The manufacturer shall be required to obtain an EU type-examination certificate issued by a notified body authorised for that purpose which examines both the technical documentation of the product and the sample of the product. The manufacturer shall, after obtaining the certificate, draw up a declaration of conformity entitled to affix the CE marking on the material. The manufacturer in serial production is to obtain products identical to the sample that has been certified. The manufacturer is also required to add instructions for use and information to the product. The breach of security requirements is to be subject to an administrative penalty. Third, the carriage of explosives across the state border requires authorisation and its absence is punishable by criminal sanctions and fourthly, the storage, possession or use of explosives intended for civil use is subject to control by the authorities of the State and the obstruction or prevention of controls is punishable by a fine. However, there are also shortcomings indicated in the justification for the government project. The proposed changes entail an increase in the following administrative burdens. First of all, there is talk of marking pyrotechnic articles with registration numbers and keeping a register of given registration numbers. The government explains that the increase in the administrative burden will not entail additional costs, as the changes are merely to confirm the practice already in place in this respect. The examination and recording of complaints concerning pyrotechnic articles presenting a risk shall be further indicated. The government explains that the examination of complaints is an activity that market operators have been doing for a long time, so no additional costs will arise. Subsequently, the market for explosives intended for civil use is covered by the supervision of the competent control authorities. Consequently, there will be a need for businesses to prepare various types of documents related to control, follow-up and other information obligations. Here I can point out the need to clarify the wording of the draft article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2c of a law whereby the authorisation to acquire, store or use explosives intended for civil use is non-negotiable and does not become a legal successor. There is a need to determine whether this provision refers to the transformation of an economic operator who is a natural person into an o.o. company. carried out under the Commercial Companies Code. The potential effects of the implementation of European Union directives will be traceable and measurable. As the government expects, efforts to strengthen the safety of the use of explosives should contribute to a decrease in the number of accidents associated with their use. However, the government did not provide specific data. According to the Government, the entry into force of the proposed law will not entail the need for additional expenditure by the state authorities, but will contribute to a small increase in the revenues of the municipalities from the additional revenue from the tax due to the need for a decision. In view of the above, a positive opinion should be given on the draft law, which has actually been drafted by the previous government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u59	Thank you very much. Will the representative of the club Modern Mr Mirosław Suchoń speak again? Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u60	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The matter submitted to the High Chamber is intended to transpose the European Union Directives into the Act of 21 June 2002 on explosives intended for civil use. Indeed, we are dealing with both materials hereinafter referred to as MWC and pyrotechnic articles hereinafter referred to as WP. In order to fully implement the EU Directives, it is necessary to amend the four laws and to issue two regulations by the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs concerning specific safety issues and procedures for compliance of materials marked with MWC and WP symbols which do not constitute statutory matter. It should be stressed here that, notwithstanding the obligation to amend the four laws of Directive 2013/29/EU, 2014/28/EU and 2014/58/EU, the provisions already in force in the Member States do not sufficiently guarantee that the materials placed on the market will comply with the essential safety requirements in accordance with the so-called standards. A new approach. Ladies and gentlemen, an in-depth analysis, rather than a short reading, prompts us to consider the purpose of the amendment. And here it is not possible to deny the government that it is not just a cosmetic change, but it regulates and sanctions important problems not only in terms of safety, but also affects the environment. Intra-Community trade requires the elimination of obstacles while ensuring a high level of safety for users of explosives, including pyrotechnics. The amended act therefore covers matters relating to the obligations of manufacturers, importers, the obligations of notified bodies related to the WP marking by means of registration numbers. The project sets out rules for the control of the movement of explosives and ammunition through the territory of the Republic of Poland, as well as market surveillance, as well as control tasks for explosives used in mining. The project also imposes new tasks on the district labour inspection, as well as sanctions on economic operators for failing to comply with the requirements of the Act. The area of regulation is large and complex, which requires careful follow-up and detailed discussion. High Seym! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party shares its position on the need to make appropriate regulations and make changes to the existing regulations and will support the referral of the bill to work in the parliamentary committees. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u61	Thank you very much, sir. Three people signed up for the questions. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, will ask you as the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Act, which provides for the extension of the obligation to obtain permission from the voivodship or the director of the district mining office for explosive activities. The following article is inserted: 1a assumes that, in the event of a change in the scope of the permit, and thus when an operator authorised to acquire and use MWC requests an extension of the authorised activity, it will be necessary to obtain a new authorisation. It will also be necessary to obtain a new licence if there is a change in the type and quantity of explosives covered by the licence obtained by the trader. I'd like to ask you about the storage of MWC. Will it also be necessary to obtain a new permit if the type of MWC is changed or only to change it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u63	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Wojciech Kossakowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is intended to arrange for the circulation of explosives intended for civil use, i.a. fireworks or firecrackers by improving compliance with safety requirements. I sincerely hope that this will reduce the number of accidents involving these products, which is particularly evident during each New Year. However, I would like to give your consideration to the issue of punishment, or more specifically the upper limit set at 100,000. zł. It is provided for a manufacturer or importer who places products not complying with safety requirements on the market. As we all assume, the proceeds from the sale of these materials are not small, last year they exceeded 520 million PLN, and so I wonder if the amount of 100,000. zł should not be increased. I'm afraid it may not be very severe in terms of profits from sales. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u65	Thank you very much, sir. The last question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. Recent months have shown that the degree of terrorist threat in Europe has increased significantly. Two very big events ahead of us, two mass events, could be defined as the World Youth Days, as well as the NATO Summit. The process of this bill takes some time and this work has been going on for months. The question is: Are those records that have been introduced at the moment, given the increase in the degree of threat, sufficient to actually ensure safety during those events that will be held in Poland this year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u67	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Tadeusz Kościński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your comments and questions. I can confirm that fertilisers used in agriculture are not classified as explosives. As for the rest of the questions, I will fully answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u69	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and certain other laws, contained in print No 275, to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report enabling it to be examined at the current sitting of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Law on the Animal Identification and Registration System (prints No 245 and 259). I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Animal Identification and Registration System Act. The draft law aims to implement into the Polish legal order the provisions of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/262 laying down rules on methods of identification of equidae - it is a horse passport regulation - introduces national rules governing the authorisation of an entity to issue identification documents for horses. The Act also identifies the competent authorities for the granting and withdrawal of authorisations, as well as the obligations of equidae owners in relation to the identification and registration of animals. The powers of veterinary inspection bodies controlling the system for identification and registration of equidae are also defined and provisions relating to the violation of the obligations laid down in the Act on the identification and registration of equidae will be introduced. I'll submit a report. Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Animal Identification and Registration System Act, published in print No 245. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading on 11 February 2016. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 24 February 2016, brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u71	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Richard Bartosik, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Animal Identification and Registration System Act. The draft law amending the Animal Identification and Registration System Act was drawn up following the entry into force of the provisions of the Commission Implementing Regulation on 1 January 2016. [[EU]] No 2015/262 of 17 February 2015 laying down rules for the identification of equidae. The amendments to the Act concern the replacement in references to the repealed Regulation by the Regulation currently in force. They also cover the completion of the functioning system for the identification and registration of animals with the following elements, i.e. the introduction of a single lifetime identification document, a method for verifying identity, a database, a register of equidae, and a central database established in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Regulation 2015/262. Amendment proposed in Article 1 point 5 of the project, concerning the new wording of the chapter. 3 of the Act results from the possibility introduced by the provisions of the Union Regulation to authorise the issue of identification documents for equidae, in breeding and production, by the competent authority of a Member State other than those referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of that Regulation, namely, it is proposed that the possibility of issuing identification documents should be given to those entities which will be included in the list kept by the Minister responsible for Agriculture on the website of the office which serves that minister. It is also proposed to introduce a provision whereby, in the event of a breach of the provisions of the Union Regulation by an institution issuing identification documents, the principal veterinarian will have the right to make himself known, to ask the Minister of Agriculture to remove such an entity from the abovementioned list. In that case, the issuing of identification documents shall be taken over by the operator of the central database of equidae. Changes are also proposed to allow the issuing of a equine identification document other than a passport or a duplicate passport. The specific provisions of the Union Regulation introduced such arrangements as to allow the issuing of replacement and temporary documents which identify equidae. In addition, it is proposed to simplify the procedure for issuing identification documents for equidae, inter alia. ensuring that equidae are able to submit applications for documents by electronic means. The proposed provisions simplify the procedure for issuing identification documents for equidae which do not have the status of breeding animals for which the application of the owner is to be based, containing at least the identification number of the animal's parents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The bill also proposes changes to the registration of animals that were not born in our country. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that this law be passed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u73	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u74	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I present my views on the proposed amendments contained in the Government's draft law amending the Animal Identification and Registration System Act, the draft contained in Seym printing No 245, and the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in print No 259. The amendments proposed in the Proceded Law concern the introduction into our legal system of new provisions of the European Commission introduced by Implementing Regulation No 262 of 2015 - the provisions introduced on 1 January 2016 as regards methods for identification of equidae. It's so-called. the horse passport regulation. The amendments consist in detailing the rules on the system for identification and registration of equidae. The draft law introduces one lifetime identification document, specifies methods for verifying the identity of the animal, introduces an obligation to keep a database, a register of equidae, which identifies the identification data of the animal for which the identification document was issued, and the holder who requested the identification document and at the same time assigns a unique number to the animal for life. The list of bodies authorised to issue identification documents shall be kept by the Minister responsible for Agriculture. In the event of a breach of the rules in this respect, the principal veterinarian may request the Minister to remove such an entity from the list. The draft shall also specify the time-cure, namely within 30 days of the issue of the animal's identity document, it shall be registered in the national central database together with an annex containing the animal's verbal and graphic description. Provisions are also introduced to clarify the procedure for dealing with the identification documents of animals which have died or have been slaughtered. The obligation to provide together with an identification document is a clear commitment here. High Seym, the proposed regulations are important for the environment of horse breeders, an important part of our economy. They are not controversial, which is why my club, the Civic Platform Club, will vote for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u75	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Club Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The solutions proposed by the applicant, the changes to the animal identification and registration system concern the simplification of the procedure for issuing identification documents for equidae. Applications for such applications may also be submitted electronically. Only an application from the owner containing at least the identification number of the parents of the animal concerned will be required to issue the identification documents. However, this applies only to animals purchased in Poland. Animals purchased in another Member State of the European Union or in another Member State of the Union shall not be subject to registration via the Internet. All documents shall be recorded in the central database of equidae. The procedures for handling the identification documents of equidae which have died, have been slaughtered or have been killed under the veterinary inspection order have been clarified. In all these situations, an obligation has been introduced to deliver the dead animals together with an identification document to the slaughterhouse, processing plant or incineration plant. The draft law also provides for the possibility of exchanging information between the Polish Horse Breeders Association, which is a central database entity, and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture in the field of fallen equidae, whose owners requested the Agency to finance their collection, transport and disposal costs. In addition, the Agency and the central database operator will be able to make available the information contained in the livestock register marked and central database of equidae for scientific, statistical, breeding or at the request of national bodies authorised to assess the value of breeding or productive livestock or national research institutes. Returning to the very solutions relating to the system for the identification of breeding animals, the aim should be to introduce solutions which will maximise the simplification of the system for the identification of breeding animals. Animals have been with man for centuries, and agriculture has been based on them for centuries. The consumption of farmed animals is an extremely important part of the human diet. I think each of us will agree that we always get the best products directly from the farmer. I'm sure they're much better than the antibiotic-filled animals from the farm. Today, however, fewer and fewer farmers grow animals for the so-called. your own use. One of the reasons for this is the increasing bureaucracy. In accordance with the European Commission's decision from 25 February this year. each farmer holding pigs, even one piece, is required to register the establishment of the herd for his own use and to keep a register of the pigs. We should strive to reduce paperwork, simplify registration and distinguish between the registration of animals reared in large farms and those reared for home use. We're also approaching another puriozum. In recent days You can hear a lot about the chicken eggs from the free range. Experts speak of their toxicity, favoring eggs from mass farms, where chickens buried in cages, without the possibility of movement, stuffed with antibiotics are supposed to endure healthier eggs than those from the grandmother of the hen house. But it's been different for years. Are you sure this is our business, the business of ordinary people and farmers, or maybe the business of pharmaceutical corporations? It doesn't pay to keep people healthy. And how are they supposed to be healthy if the food's already filled with chemo? We should in the near future for a change may not restrict the records of healthy food and animals, but the regulatory limits on chemical additives in food. EU standards are more restrictive than Polish ones. Referring to the Kukiz'15 project on direct sales, let's bring healthy food to our tables and bring cows, pigs, chickens and other animals back to each farm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u77	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u78	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There's hardly anybody here, though. I am pleased to present the opinion of the modern club about the government bill on the animal identification and registration system. The draft law is the implementation of Implementing Regulation No 262 of the European Union of 17 February 2015 laying down, pursuant to Council Directives, rules on methods of identification of equidae. The Regulation entered into force on 1 January 2016. These regulations aim at strengthening and synchronising the system for identification and registration of equidae. The development of the system is intended to provide the required animal health guarantees as well as to enable the application of those provisions of Union law aimed at animal welfare and public health, the precondition for which is the correct and reliable identification of equidae. The proposed amendments will establish a central database of the institutions issuing identification documents on the basis of a list kept by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development on the website of the Ministry. It will also be possible to submit applications for identification documents via the website. The form in which the documentation is to be kept or in electronic form is not fully clarified. The purpose of these provisions is also to eliminate fraud, the subject matter of which was identification documents. In the event of an infringement by an institution issuing identification documents, it will be possible to suspend or revoke the powers of that body. According to experts, the lack of PESEL and REGON numbers for horse owners in the database may in some cases be a difficulty in confirming the identity of the wanted person for fraud. According to the Act in the case of dead animals slaughtered or killed under the veterinary inspection order, it will be necessary to supply the dead animals together with the identification document to the slaughterhouse or processing plant or incineration plant. The purpose of the amendment to the Act is to increase the control of slaughter animals for human consumption. Clarification of obligations to breeders of horses, as well as the introduction of greater transparency in the system of methods of identification of equidae through the introduced bill we judge positively and we do not object. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u79	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Sawicki, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking in this case, I would like to say that the speakers described the project and the changes in detail in detail. Of course, this is the implementation of EU law and everyone has pointed out that it is a matter of simplification. I would like to make it clear that where EU law speaks about simplification, it says so, while all these provisions and detailed solutions show that we are introducing additional responsibilities, we are detailing, so this simplification results in additional documentation and additional paperwork. So I just want to make it clear that, of course, as the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, we support this amendment, this provision, because it comes from implementation, but it is another obligation which imposes EU law, so it is not a simplification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u81	Thank you very much, sir. Two Members have joined the question. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz'15, will be the first to speak. You're welcome. Question time - 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The procedure for issuing identification documents for equidae has been simplified. Applications for them can also be submitted electronically, but this applies only to animals purchased in Poland. Why are animals purchased in another Member State of the European Union or in another non-EU country not subject to registration via the Internet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u83	Thank you very much, sir. And I ask Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's law is part of the climate of recent changes in our country related to horses. The Government's draft amendment to the Animal Identification and Registration Act concerns equidae and is intended to implement the European Commission's Regulation on horse passport. An animal will be given one lifetime identification number that will accompany it throughout the European Union, and this is a good solution. The Act does not specify the qualifications of the person who will identify equidae. Let me remind you that the provisions of the EU Regulation give Member States the opportunity to determine the qualifications required by the identification of horses on their own, give them freedom to do so. The European Union generally states that these are to be people with a minimum of average education. Hence my question: Is it a good and proper solution not to propose that the Minister responsible for agriculture lay down the conditions for the acquisition of qualifications in the field of identification and registration of equidae? Please state your reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u85	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mrs. Ewa Lech, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There are two short questions. Question number one: Why can't horse owners who bought horses abroad report it electronically? In all, it is simple - they must provide a document in which annotations will be made, and then they will receive this document back. You can't do that by electronic means. That's the answer to the first question. Second question, it's about resigning. It has already been accepted for years that breed societies, i.e. entities authorised to keep records and identify equidae, sign contracts with persons who are entitled, i.e. they are qualified to evaluate and describe equidae. Therefore, in any case, the requirements are also met by the persons who do so. If this is not a satisfactory answer, I can provide explanations in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the committee rapporteur still want to speak? If not, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Protection (prints No. 265 and 296). I ask Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the proposed law is to create the possibility of allocating funds to the Forest Fund created in the State Forest Forests for nature conservation in forests implemented through forest management and to support national parks by extending the possibility of financing their specific activities, including the creation of infrastructure, real estate buy-back, land buy-back within national parks. In addition, the aim is to create the possibility of allocating forest funds to draw up simplified plans for forest equipment for forests not owned by the State Treasury, belonging to natural persons and to the ground communities, which would greatly allow the elderly to remove the arrears that have been in this area for many years. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, national parks are tasked with carrying out protective activities in park ecosystems. For many years the funding of national parks has been based on the state budget, these are funds transferred from the state budget, which is currently about PLN 80 million. These are also funds provided by the National Environmental Fund in the form of grants. National parks can also benefit from various types of grants, which are directed to organisms such as national parks managing nature conservation in the area. For some time the parks have also been supported by the State Forest Forests Forests. This amount of support over the last few years has been different, reaching PLN 2 and PLN 12 and 25 million. In 2016, the amount of support for national parks, which was included in the forest fund, in the budget of the State Forests, is a significant amount, exceeding PLN 70 million. It is important that this is regulated directly in the law as regards the support provided by the State Forests to national parks, and that is also what this amendment of the Forests Act is aiming at. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, also this, that I have already mentioned in order to improve the preparation and implementation of the so-called. simplified plans for forest equipment which are implemented, carried out and carried out for forest complexes, forest areas, private forests or forests which are managed by communities, among others. Land communities. The duty in this matter rests with the elders. We know how modest the financial resources of the counties are, we know how much the old men have, and so we come up against it. In order to improve these issues, we give the elders the opportunity to apply to the State Forests for refinancing or financing the creation of these strategic documents for forest management, which are plans to plant the forest - in the case of private forests these are so-called. simplified plans. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, an amendment was also tabled which meets the expectations of the Ministry of the Environment regarding the revision of the article. 96 Nature Protection Act. This amendment concerns the functioning of the National Council for the Protection of Nature. It is proposed that this body, this institution, which is an advisory body of the Minister of the Environment, which pursues its objectives and carries out its activities costlessly, without any apanage, so that the National Council for the Conservation of Nature counts, is such a proposal, from 20 to 40 members, but it is also important that the Minister for the Environment may have an influence on who sits on this Council, so that the Minister for the Environment may also appoint and recall members of the State Council for Conservation of Nature. A very sad situation has happened in recent weeks - the death of one of the members spoke about this during yesterday's meeting of Minister Swede-Lewandowski, the main conservationist responsible for this area and this law. He pointed out that, in recent days or weeks, one of the members of the National Council for Nature Conservation, a prominent expert in the field of the ecosystems of the Baltic Sea, had died, and unfortunately, the current law does not allow him to replace another person who could pursue certain objectives in this area, since this period of office of a member of the State Council for Nature Conservation lasts five years without the possibility of appealing, without the possibility of calling for this position in a situation such as the one I have just referred to, the successor or the next person. According to the Ministry of the Environment, it is necessary to regulate such situations in order to eliminate them as well. Ladies and gentlemen, this report is available in print 296, you can read it. On behalf of the committee, I recommend the adoption of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u89	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Gosievski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u90	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am pleased to present my position on the draft parliamentary law amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation in print No 265 and the report of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry in print No 296. The main objective of the amendments to these laws is to assist parks and local authorities. During the process on this law at the committee meeting, we proposed to introduce a number of other necessary amendments to the Forest Act and to the Nature Conservation Act, which we agreed should be included in subsequent draft laws. There is still a lot of work ahead of us in this area. The Act adopted by the Commission included provisions in line with the original project, as well as additional necessary changes, whose implementation is essential for the implementation of the aid to the elderly, parks and to strengthen the functioning of nature conservation measures in forests implemented through forest management methods. The draft law tabled by the group of Members responds to the problems raised by the elderly many times, as well as the expectations of national parks, which workers and supporters have rightly protested in recent years. The delays in drawing up basic documents relating to the forest economy have adversely affected its state. The proposed amendments to the Forest Law and the Nature Conservation Act will allow resources from the Forest Fund to be used to draw up simplified forest planning for forests not owned by the State Treasury, belonging to natural persons and to the communities of the ground, which will allow the elders to remove the arrears in this respect. Currently, forest fund funds constituting claims, penalties and charges related to the exclusion of forest land production and premature logging may only be used for research and forest management tasks in parks. In addition to research, national parks carry out part of their primary activities in forest areas through forest management methods. In order to help the parks, we provide them with the opportunity to allocate funds to the forest fund, created in the State Forests Forests State Farm on the basis of the detailed regulations contained in the Forests Act, for the conservation of nature implemented through forest management methods. The proposed law also supports national parks by extending the funding possibilities for their specific activities, including the creation of infrastructure and the purchase of real estate on land within the boundaries of parks. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 points 1 and 2 of this law have been amended by the wording of the article. 57 and Article 57 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 58 Forests Act in the section on the management of national parks, which since 18 August 2012 was in conflict with the current legal situation, as since 2012 parks have acquired the right to use perpetual real estate which had previously been given to them by the permanent management. We are therefore changing this order by the incorrect legal system so far in this regard. National parks as state legal entities and the highest form of protection in Poland in recent years have not had sufficient financial resources to carry out their tasks. The changes that were included in the parliamentary bill meet the expectations of managers and employees of national parks. As a result of the changes introduced, it will be possible to extend the support of national parks by the Forest Fund, which is available to the General Director of State Forests, to the conservation of nature in forests through forest management methods. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and to create the infrastructure necessary for forest management and land buy-out. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law on amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation in print No 296, which is a report by the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u91	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If it were really the way the rapporteur put it at first, it would be okay, because indeed national parks need to be equipped, their functioning needs to be strengthened. Therefore, when reading the bill, no one had any doubts As to the fact that this is a project that needs to be supported, but... And it's all in the details. At yesterday's committee meeting, there was a crazy attempt to make amendments, first, not in accordance with the Constitution, second, far from submitting this draft in Parliament. I will remind you that the project is a parliamentary project, as it turned out, underdeveloped, which requires a few amendments, but the worst part is that during the work in the committee, the Members of the PiS tried, as I said, to put in the records, I would have it She called it staffing because the attempt at the first amendment - fortunately, gentlemen and ladies who wanted to claim it - had withdrawn from it - concerned the provision of forcible powers so that they could release their employees without any restrictions. Unfortunately, as the Parliament's legislators have raised, this is absolutely far from the project submitted and, above all, not consulted with the relevant institutions required in this regard. It's nothing, because after we started running over the bill, it turned out to be the best one at the end, so to speak. Namely, under the pretence of just completing the composition of the State Council for Nature Protection in connection with the death of Prof. Skin, something is proposed which will lead to the fact that those insubordinate members of the State Council for Nature Protection who spend e.g. negative opinions concerning the destruction of the Białowieża Forest, because such an opinion was issued by the State Council of Nature Protection on the plans of Minister Szyszka, they will simply be removed, because it is part of the project that the Minister will be able to appeal the members of the State Council of Nature Protection and will be able to simply reduce the number of these members. I would like to remind you that the National Council for Nature Protection is called for five years' term of office. The current term of office ends in 2019. This is 40 people, professionals who work for nature conservation and have a lot to say, who are a kind of consultative body and look at the hands of every environmental minister in some way, so that there are no such temptations as at present, seeking to destroy, for example, the Białowieża Forest. It is amazing that under the pretence of some seeming savings, improvements in work are being introduced such regulations, and this is simply an assassination on the National Council for Conservation of Nature, as a result of an assassination on our nature, on our national heritage. The debate on additional logging in the Białowieża Forest has been going on for several months and many organizations are protesting. Also, as I said, the National Council for Nature Protection has issued a negative opinion on this plan. Therefore, if there are negative opinions, it is necessary to change the National Council for the Protection of Nature, introduce their people there, and those who are insincere, who want to protect the Polish nature, to throw away. So much for that. So that as a representative of the Civic Platform Club, I want to make amendments that will simply reverse this situation, which means they will restore the original records. As soon as these amendments are adopted, we will depend on our position on the entire bill. Your Marshal, for your correction. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u93	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Club Poselski Kukiz'15, will speak next.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! National parks that protect our common heritage and beautiful landscapes in our country always deserve the greatest support. Currently in Poland we have 23 national parks with an area of 3167 km2. Five national parks are located on the territory of my native Małopolska, hence my conviction of their special value. Nature conservation in the 21st century is becoming increasingly difficult. We can see the situations faced by cities in Małopolska, both by Kraków and by my family's Proszowice, where meadows are flooded or there is a lack of fresh air, and instead there is smog. National parks must be the last resort of nature and we must protect them in particular. Man's expansion already covers almost all areas. We are developing industry on a huge scale, as well as a transport network. Increasing tourism is also a challenge for nature. Therefore, in order to protect the territory of national parks properly, there should be no land under private ownership within their borders. This type of land often cause many conflicts between private interests and nature conservation. New opportunities for using the forestry fund provide another source of funding for land buy-back within national parks. In 2015, 837 ha were bought for PLN 17 million, in 2016 about 1060 ha are planned to be bought. Forest fund is created, among others. from measures which come from various types of penalties and charges related, inter alia. with the logging of the stands. Hence, it is a good move to transfer these funds to buy land within national parks, which have the right of their original purchase. These areas will fund the wealth of the State Treasury, and will remain in the eternal use of national parks, which will allow the conservation of nature in their territory. Another important change introduced by this law is support for local government units. The ancients invest their resources mainly in all kinds of infrastructure, leaving the forest in the last place. And it is the starosts who are statutory authorities supervising forest areas that are not owned by the State Treasury under the Law on Forests. According to Art. Paragraph 7 1 of this law, sustainable forest management in forests not owned by the State Treasury should be carried out according to a previously drawn up planning act, i.e. a simplified plan for the installation of the forest. According to the CSO, only 70% at the end of 2014 such forests had adequate official documentation. The proposal responds to the problems raised by the elderly over the lack of adequate funding for this purpose. It relieves them in this regard, while allowing for two things - to maintain the current pace of investment and to carry out tasks in different areas in the powiats, but thus does not leave forests at the gray end of the list of problems that the starosts have to face. Nature, which is particularly important to man, is not left alone in this situation, is not alone in unequal struggle. By pouring another meter of asphalt, burning another kilo of coal, let us remember each time that we need clean air and healthy food to live. The funds collected in the forest fund will support local governments and national parks. And, speaking of the assassination, because here I have heard the statement of the Member of the Civic Platform, I would like to remind you that on the night of 17 to 18 December 2014 there was an attempt to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which would allow the sale of state forests in the future on the basis of the principles enshrined in the Act. The bill was voted for by the PO-PSL governing coalition. 291 Members voted in favour of the amendments, 150 against and 2 abstentions. There were only five votes left to adopt the changes. When there was much talk at the beginning of this term about the assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal, the violation of the Constitution, why didn't anyone mention the assassination of the state forests? In the days of the previous government, they wanted to change the constitution so as to sell out Poland to sell out our national interests. [[You're lying.]] The European Union did not protest then, neither did the Committee for Democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u95	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Lieder. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u96	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The proposed amendments to the Forests Act and the Nature Conservation Act extend the use of the Forest Fund with the resources of the General Director of the State Forests. The main objective of the amendment is to enable financing of certain activities of Polish national parks. National parks, as the highest form of nature conservation with undeniable environmental, landscape, social, cultural and educational qualities, need constant support from the state and society in fulfilling the task of ensuring a good state of national natural heritage. The explanatory memorandum states that by the proposed amendment to the Forest Law, it will be possible to extend the support of national parks by the Forest Fund for the conservation of nature in forests implemented through forest management methods and to create the infrastructure necessary for forest management and land purchase. During the consultation with the national parks directorates, some reservations and suggestions were raised regarding the proposed changes. The wording of the forest management methods is vague and creates the possibility of misinterpretation. It is not known what methods are involved and the provisions of the Article do not explain this either. Article 8b (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Point 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 2 and Article 2 Paragraph 5 of the Nature Conservation Act, cited for this purpose in the justification of the project. In forests in national parks, a number of protection measures in particular differ significantly from those carried out in economic forests. Moreover, treatments carried out in forests of national parks often conflict with methods in forest management, e.g. elimination from the tree state and spontaneous renewals of alien species of trees and shrubs geographically or e.g. reproduction and maintenance of visible, illuminated oak forests by imitating old forms of economic exploitation of the forest - mowing of rune and raids, thinning of lining, cross-cutting extensive use of the stand, grazing of livestock. Leaving records in this form would very narrow down the catalogue of conservation measures in the forests of national parks and nature reserves which could be financed by the forestry fund. In addition, it would leave space for subjective interpretation, which is, and which is not the conduct of nature conservation in forests through forest management methods. The scope of nature conservation methods used in national parks is clear from the provisions contained in the conservation plans or protective tasks for the national park concerned, which are regulations or regulations of the Minister responsible for the environment respectively, and only to a very limited extent overlaps with those of forest management. The forest fund could not provide for the purchase of small surface-based non-forestry properties, with the assumption of maintaining their non-forestry, meadow-like character through treatments that certainly do not fall into forest management methods. Their maintenance, and this guarantees their redemption, is extremely important for the proper functioning of the ecosystems of forest parks. They constitute feeding sites for forest animals, both herbivores, birds and small invertebrates, mainly insects, including those belonging to unique species. In view of the above arguments, gathered on the basis of consultations with national parks' directors, we propose the following changes: Article. 1 point (2) (a) a - with nature conservation in forests implemented by forest management methods for nature conservation in the ecosystems of national parks, art. 1 point (2) (a) c - necessary for the conservation of nature carried out by forest management methods on the conservation of nature carried out in the ecosystems of national parks. The absence of the proposed amendments in this respect could in extreme cases result in a departure from the correct nature conservation methods for the conduct in forests of national parks such actions supported by forest fund funds, which will be similar to the typical economic and farming activities used in production forests. As a result, this could significantly jeopardise the proper and contemporary conservation of nature in the ecosystems of national parks and deepen the existing conflict between environmental approaches and expansionary forms of management. And speaking of the last committee meeting, I would like to say that, of course, we do not agree with the amendments proposed by the PiS on human resources. The other amendments proposed in the amendment to the Forest Law and the Nature Conservation Act do not raise any objections. I'm handing over the amendment and thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u97	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Urszula Pasławska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u98	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party a position concerning the Law on amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation. The law, which was prepared in the first version, which was passed to the marshal's staff, aroused very positive emotions in me, because the direction it pointed out is good, it concerns strengthening national parks, which have not always been financed so far... Different. It can be said that they were and are definitely poorer than the State Forests. Therefore, both support for funding from the forest land buy-back fund and investment support is certainly a good direction. If I were malicious, I would remind you of the discussion in this Chamber - it was several months ago - when my colleagues from Law and Justice made it very clear that it was impossible to take money from the State Forests, because the money in the State Forests is for state forests. I am pleased that the direction of support for other areas has also been taken into account here by you. It would also be worth considering how, however, in the case of this law, to compensate municipalities, which have benefited from, for example, forest tax, precisely those lost benefits. I believe that this mechanism will be refined. I also welcome this direction of cooperation between State Forests and national parks. I think that one day it will be a challenge to bring these two groups together formally, administratively, because the way in which the State Forests operate, in which they manage their state forests, is actually a model and we can boast about it everywhere. On the other hand, the amendments that were tabled at the committee meeting yesterday actually raise a lot of concerns and doubts, and in particular the amendment concerning the National Council for the Protection of Nature. When the National Council for Nature Conservation was set up - I think this happened last year - also as a person who is connected with nature, I had my doubts. We would like many other or additional experts in other areas to have the opportunity to work on this conservation board. But great, if not the greatest value of this counsel, is its independence. Nature doesn't like politics. Nature expects rationality, and in case of possibility of cancellation of members of the nature conservation council, this advice will not be independent, but available and we cannot agree to this as a club of the Polish People's Party. In view of the above, we also make the deletion amendment, the amendment proposed in Article. Point 2 (2) is to delete the proposed Article. 96. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u99	Thank you very much. In order to ask the question, four parliamentarians signed up. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. It's time for the question to be asked for two minutes. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The old-timers invest their resources mainly in all kinds of infrastructure, leaving the forest areas in the last place, and it is the starosts who are statutory authorities supervising forest areas which are not owned by the State Treasury under the Forest Act. Will the Act relieve local government units and help them maintain non-State-owned forest areas? What resources and amounts can ancient times count on? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u101	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Płępek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The national park shall have the right to buy the property situated within the limits of that park for the State Treasury. To date, national parks have received funds for this purpose from the LIFE Fund and from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The area purchased in this way amounted to more than 800 ha last year and cost a total of about PLN 17 million. So this is a small area. The amendment to the law consists in extending the catalogue of the possible use of the forestry fund. The funds collected in the Fund are available to the Director-General of State Forests, which can now be allocated in the case of forests in national parks, among others. for research and forest management tasks. After the change, the forest fund will also be able to be used for the purchase of real estate by national parks. I trust the good management of the forest fund, but my question is, should we not introduce an algorithm that would separate resources from the forest fund in an appropriate amount, proportionally, for research, maintenance of the stand and proposed land buy-out? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u103	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Wójcikowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is this. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the State stated that this draft amendment of the law would have a positive impact on the state budget and budgets of local government units, and that more did not seem to the State to be concerned about this, firstly, how do you understand what it means to have a positive impact on these budgets, secondly, to what extent, why, whether long-term or once. I would ask you to supplement the information and answer the question: How will the amendment of the law we are currently debating affect the state budget and the budgets of local government units, on a specific monetary, financial dimension, on which departments, whether long-term or short-term, and for what reason will it have a positive impact? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u105	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Gosievski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u106	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! At the very beginning, I wanted to greet and greet the Forest Service of the State Forests, which represents a multitude of foresters throughout the country, thanks to which this fund is a forest fund, which at the moment we are generously allocating for further purposes. It is thanks to you, thanks to colleagues, employees of state forests, that we can support local government units and parks today. And since every speech I make... I very much welcome colleagues from the forest. My question I would like to address to the rapporteur, Mr Skurkiewicz: How will this law improve the condition of national parks? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u107	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Therefore, I would like to ask the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment, Minister of Sweden-Lewandowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the draft amendments to the Forest Law and the Nature Conservation Act, it should be noted that they are fully justified. The inclusion in the draft provision on the allocation of forest funds to nature conservation in forests through forest management methods will allow for uniform interpretation of the possibilities for financing active nature conservation measures from this source and this will contribute to increased funding for nature conservation, especially in areas of valuable nature, such as national parks in which the strict forest management is not carried out, while a number of conservation measures are carried out in forest ecosystems, which are often very similar in nature. It is also extremely important to propose a change that allows the use of forest funds for the purchase by national parks for the Treasury of the Real Estate. The implementation of the necessary protective measures in the national park is sometimes difficult due to the lack of interference with foreign land. In such a situation, the best solution is to buy real estate for the Treasury or for the national park, intended for various nature conservation purposes. Unfortunately, national parks, as we know, do not have their own financial resources that could be earmarked for this purpose, so they benefit mainly from the funds of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and from various projects co-financed from the European Union. In 2015, national parks purchased about 840 ha of land, while they showed the validity of buying more than 1000 ha for this year. Real estate purchases within national parks allow for the implementation of conservation measures in ecosystems, as I said earlier, as well as preventing social conflicts. It should also be considered reasonable to allow the use of forest funds to draw up simplified plans for forest equipment for forests not owned by the State Treasury, belonging to natural persons and to the ground communities. The control over forest management in forests not owned by the State Treasury is exercised by the governor. The Starosta shall have a simplified plan drawn up for the installation of the forest, approve it and supervise its implementation. Currently, nearly 30% of forests not owned by the State Treasury do not have current simplified plans for the installation of the forest. The reason for this is, above all, the lack of funding for the preparation of this dossier by the elderly. The amendment of the law in this area will contribute to better implementation of forest management in non-state forests and will assist local authorities in carrying out statutory oversight of these forests. Therefore, for these reasons, the Ministry of the Environment has a positive opinion on this parliamentary project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this brief discussion and in the case of those voices that have been cast by your Members, I would like to address a few points. We are talking about the cooperation of State Forests and local governments, how this will affect the budget of local governments, how much money it will be. The Minister spoke about these simplified plans to plant forests for forests not owned by the State Treasury. Of course, the elders will be able, if necessary, to ask the Director-General of the State Forests to refinance or finance such a work as the simplified plan for the installation of the forest. And that's it. And they'll be able to perform, and that's what we're creating right now. So that it is also direct support for the budgets of the powiats, especially in those areas where the forest complexes of private forests, communities, etc., are located, etc., which are not owned by the State Treasury. But it is also worth that here, in this room, this information is now heard that the State Forests cooperate, work and also support local governments by paying taxes. Each year the State Forests pay to local governments, pay to municipalities in the form of various taxes, of course it is mainly forest tax, an amount not insignificant, because it is about 200 million PLN. This year it will be an even higher amount, which is estimated at about PLN 240.250 million. This is the support that is directed to local governments, i.e. funds are transferred to local governments. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, as far as national parks are concerned, it happened that four years ago, with a small piece, when national parks virtually ceased to exist, there would be a specific attack on national parks - this is the financial condition of national parks - by eliminating the so-called "national parks." ancillary undertakings which could generate various profits for national parks, e.g. from national parks. from the sale of tickets, from the sale of wood, because it also takes place in national parks. This matter was saved in the Senate, in a House I was a member of at that time. But national parks, you must be aware, are still facing huge financial problems, because if we are talking about 23 national parks that we have in Poland at the moment, the state budget contributes to their functioning, and the state budget should be 100% maintain this park economy, should maintain national parks. The state budget transfers only a little over PLN 80 million, when we talk about national parks, 23 national parks. That's the problem. This funding of national parks is combined funding, because this is, on the one hand, what I said in my speech at the beginning, precisely this state budget, from which financial resources come, among other things. for salaries and current activities, but this is also the support from the National Environmental Fund, whose funding is already going directly to this highest form of nature protection, as well as support from the National Forests. And this law, which we are talking about today, currently regulates these principles of cooperation between State Forests and national parks. The State Forests have been passing... I told you it was different amounts over the last few years. In recent years it has been 12, 25 million PLN. At the moment it will be an invaluable amount, because it will amount to PLN 70 million or even PLN 75 million. Just understand one thing, too, because here the Modern Member pointed out that maybe for other purposes the parks will be able to transfer these funds, which will be booked in a forest fund and transferred to the budgets of national parks, that the forest fund is created for a specific purpose and that these funds must also be spent, spent for specific purposes. Hence, this record of nature conservation by means of forest management methods. This is, of course, a very broad concept, but I do. I can't imagine a situation like that. these funds could be transferred, I do not know, e.g. in order to secure desert areas or other areas, because we also have one in Poland. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that this money is clearly, precisely targeted. And I am glad that we can say that we support, support national parks with a considerable amount of PLN 70 or 75 million. Of course, in the coming years or maybe months there will be an accelerated matter and we will have a very wide discussion about this highest form of nature conservation, which is national parks. I think it will be necessary to lean on this, but also to develop some mechanisms to ensure that situations that threaten the liquidation of parks or the financial collapse of national parks never again happen that these foundations, especially financial ones, of the functioning of national parks are very stable, so that managers of individual national parks do not have to run with a pile of documents from institutions A to institutions B, participate in grant programmes, obtain these funds, because they should also deal with or above all other issues relating to nature conservation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u111	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act (prints No 277 and 282). I ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance a report on the work of the committee on the bill amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, print no.277. The report on this work is set out in print No 282. It's so-called. a small amendment of the Act on the Bank Guarantee Fund adapting the provisions of the Polish law to the revised rules at the end of last year, especially by the European Securities and Markets Authority, consisting in amending the rules on the accounting of the bank's contribution to the Bank Guarantee Fund. This new situation with regard to international accounting standards has led to the need to match our financial system and the accounting officer to this framework in such a way that the calculation of the contribution will take place on a quarterly basis and not on an annual basis, as has been the case so far, because the absence of such a change would have led to the fact that, regardless of whether the banks would have paid the BWG in full, they would have had to book it from the beginning of the year and would have been entitled to charge it as well. This would ultimately result in a disproportionate, inadequate assessment of this sector, which would, for certain reasons, have to show a worse financial result. The Sejm Committee on Public Finance welcomes this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u113	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Szewczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u114	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Polish Government! I would like on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, on the basis of Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament, submit amendments to the Act amending the Act on Bank Guarantee Fund, Seym prints No.277 and 282. I would like to stress that these changes are mainly technical, although for those who have to pay these contributions, they are undoubtedly important. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, work is underway in the Sub-Committee on Financial Institutions on a general regulation on the functioning of the Banking Guarantee Fund to implement the comprehensive arrangements put in place by the Union in this area. It will be included in print No 215. It turned out that we cannot simply wait for this work to be completed - these are very extensive documents - and we urgently need to revise the current BWG law. The amendment proposed in prints 277 and 282 is intended to change the way fees are set for BWG from annual to quarterly, as mentioned by my previous speaker. This is simply a consequence of a new interpretation of EU rules on how these contributions are cleared. The behaviour of the current solution could result in banks having to book the total annual contribution at the beginning of the year simply, which would certainly have a negative impact on their performance. So it is not that the Law and Justice, so to speak, is only on the path of conflict and war with the banking sector. Where we see this rationality of change, we react immediately. It is all the more worth recalling that these legislative work on the implementation of the BWG Act is delayed for several years. Of course, this is not the responsibility of the government that has been operating for six months. The introduction, please countries, of these quarterly charging periods at the BWG will solve such a technical problem on the one hand, but on the other, it is important, namely to avoid such paper losses incurred by banks in connection with this one-year payment scheme. However, the proposed solution will mainly concern 2016 because after 2017, these charges to BWG will already be applied on the basis of the new printing records No 215, so-called. Recovery and resolution law. The Ministry of Finance - as far as we know - has already tabled amendments to this draft similar to those contained in prints 277, 282, i.e. in subsequent years the fees for BWG will be determined to the extent that the EU rules allow this, i.e. quarterly periods. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to pass the amendments on to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u115	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u116	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! We are proceeding as a matter of urgency with the draft law on the Bank Guarantee Fund notified by the Group of Members. This project concerns bank charges for the Banking Guarantee Fund. According to the European Securities and Markets Authority, [[ESMA]] According to the opinion of 25 September 2015, bank charges that report in accordance with international accounting standards... Today, these banks calculate and pay a premium at the beginning of the year accordingly. It is in the opinion of this European body that it is considered incorrect and it is indicated that the allowance is set as a one-off cost. That's against the rules. According to the draft law, banks that apply international accounting standards will legally regulate contributions during quarterly periods, and we consider this to be a good solution. What are we missing about this case? In this respect, the notification requested by the Government to the European Central Bank is lacking and is a mandatory provision for notification. So there is the first question to the Minister of Finance whether this project, because it enters into force as a matter of urgency, we have a deadline by the end of March, whether and as the Minister has sought, whether he has requested his notification at the time of the arrival of the project. Let me remind you, we examined him almost two weeks ago in committee, so this notification procedure should be initiated. The second point, which is extremely important to discuss, point out, show opportunities, is the project which introduces the possibility that the Minister for Financial Institutions has the right to increase the amount of the fee. Originally in the project this fee was set at... set the premium - 0.6% , so we have significantly led the Civic Platform to lower the fee. Agree to show here what criteria need to be applied, so you must turn, among other things. to the President of the Banking Guarantee Fund and the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission to indicate that there are conditions in the sector that require an increase in this fee. We talk about guaranteeing deposits all the time, but such a position to increase this fee in the form of a regulation, without showing additional conditions or circumstances, seems to us to be a very huge narrowing and giving the Minister a great deal of competence for financial institutions. What do we want to say on this occasion? That in the case of cooperative savings banks and cooperative banks, this principle and this solution will not be affected because they do not apply international accounting standards and their reports and the way in which the fees are paid to the Bank Guarantee Fund are carried out in accordance with the Accounting Act. This law introduces, and it is certainly an important solution, criminal liability for the members of the board of directors of cash registers, we are talking about savings and credit registers, which was not before, for lack or delay in the transfer of contributions to the Bank Guarantee Fund. Penalties, in accordance with those provisions, shall be a fine, a sentence of limitation of liberty or a sentence of imprisonment of up to two years. Such liability of banks already exists in the Act - for the timely transfer of contributions to the Bank Guarantee Fund. The most important question arises in this discussion, because apart from what my previous speakers were talking about the procedure of a large bill, resolution, the Bank Guarantee Fund, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this case, we are very interested in whether the notification process has been initiated and how the Minister will answer the question under which conditions the Minister will perform for this authorisation to the bank fund and the Financial Supervision Commission. We would like to know more about the procedure for preparing the fee increase regulation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u117	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Club Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! As far as this law is concerned, let's start with the confusion between the European institutions, because it was the European Supervisory Authority that changed the interpretation and it turned out that banks' fees for the Banking Guarantee Fund should be included in the costs once and that the asset for such a fee cannot be recognised and the costs settled over time. This is what the European Union is imposing on us, not other solutions. They are not beneficial to us at all, because we need to change the law by doing so, we need to modify and patch our law, and this has been working in a good way so far, and this change in interpretation, as far as the European Supervisory Authority is concerned, was not necessary at all. In fact, it does not contribute to any improvement in security, it does not contribute to better action, it interferes with IAS. This is precisely an example of the unnecessary action of the European institutions, which only cause confusion in the law and changes adapting our right to interpretation and changes which are not really necessary and do not bring anything positive. This is the unnecessary legislative work that we need to do thanks to the fact that in the European Union officials are working efficiently and creating many unnecessary directives, interpretations and legal acts. With regard to our adaptation to these curian acts, it is unfortunately necessary to do so as soon as possible. Of course since 2017, we will have a new law, the main one, and this main law will settle it permanently, while now it is de In fact, such a transitional provision, which allows the accounting of commercial banks to be non-curiosable, so that there are no paper losses in the first quarter and then extracurricular profits in the second, third and fourth quarters. This would be completely unnecessary, obscure the picture of the real financial condition of banks and would have to make appropriate corrections by analysts and interpreters of the bank's financial results. So we will make such an adjustment so that the accounts of commercial banks are transparent and consistent with the actual state of those banks, and not with the laws of the European Union that change and interpret them. As far as the fees for the Banking Guarantee Fund are concerned, the Kukiz movement takes the view that these charges should generally be as low as possible. We'd like that if the system is stable... And so it is said, because the finance minister recently dismissed the Deputy Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister has also joined this resignation, for saying that there are some features in the instability of the financial system as far as banks are concerned. So since he's so stable, there's no need to increase the contributions to the Bank Guarantee Fund. We would like - if we have such a stable fund and he does not need extra intervention - to make these contributions smaller, because it is always some administrative unnecessary cost that the sector is burdened with, making it less efficient and tax-bearing. So, as long as we are able to accept banking tax because we understand its idea, there is no need - if it is true that the sector is stable and operates correctly - to increase the fees for the Banking Guarantee Fund. Rather, we should consider the target of reducing these charges and reducing costs for the economy. According to the interpretation of the reduction in banking costs repeated by other Members here on several occasions, it will help to reduce credit margins and increase credit shares, and in general the same advantages for the economy. So we would like to consider whether it is appropriate to blindly raise this contribution to the BFG, and if there is anything to be done, we should sit in a proper debate and identify these reasons correctly, because perhaps there is something to be done, since the Vice-Ministers of Finance are changing if they are just starting to talk about it. As far as comparability with data is concerned, this is also the basic reason why we are adopting this patch at the moment, because for financial markets, for analysis of comparability of data, especially with data from the previous year, it would be extremely disturbed if this patch, which we are talking about, were not to be introduced. I hope that this will not be an excuse to increase administrative and tax costs in the activities of banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u120	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The aim of this project is to change the pricing system from the current annual to the quarterly period. The issue we are discussing is not only important but also very urgent. Also, like my previous speaker from Kukiz'15, I have a question for the Ministry of Finance: Does the resignation of the Deputy Minister related to the statement on the situation of banks have any significance here? Please explain deeper than a laconic message. In line with the intention of the legislator, as regards this proposal, we are trying to avoid the situation where entities obliged to contribute one-off fees to the Bank Guarantee Fund at the beginning of the year would have a balance sheet loss in the interim financial statements, which would result in the need to present a resolution programme. As previously mentioned by Ms Krystyna Skowrońska from the PO, the issue of international accounting standards was raised during the discussions and in the finance committee, as, according to the interpretation of the European Securities and Markets Authority, the fees paid in the ex ante model to BFG by banks producing financial statements in accordance with this system should be included in the cost at one time. Although, of course, this opinion is not binding, it must be acknowledged that it was also a position presented by leading accountants. In their view, too, the use of a different approach to the settlement of charges to the BFG over time may, of course, put banks at risk of serious consequences, suspicions of non-compliance with IASs. Hence the necessity of our procession and we as Modern understand suddenly in time and the exit of this part of the major law on BFG ahead of the ranks. These amendments related to time limits for the payment of prudential charges to BFG, reimbursement to entities covered by the mandatory system of guaranteeing differences between the annual fees paid and the prudential charge, and reduction of the rate from 0.6% up to 0,3% We consider it appropriate. With this in mind, Richard Petru's Modern Club will vote in favour of these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u121	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jan Łopata, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u122	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Bank Guarantee Fund. High Izbo! On 25 September 2015, the European Securities and Markets Authority, in its interpretation No 2015/ESMA/1462, concludes that the fees paid in the ex-ante model for the Bank Guarantee Fund by banks producing financial statements in accordance with the international accounting standard should be counted as a single cost, but it is not possible to recognise the asset for such a fee and then settle its costs over time. In other words, as regards the resulting commitment and the costs resulting from the payment, it is an obligation to include this once at the beginning of the reporting period. I would like to quote here another provision regulating this matter of bank guarantees, namely Directive 2014/49 of the EU, and in particular its Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 which states that Member States shall ensure that deposit guarantee schemes have adequate systems to identify their potential liabilities. The available financial resources of deposit guarantee schemes shall be proportionate to those commitments. Deposit guarantee schemes shall obtain available funds from contributions which their members make at least once a year. This is important - at least once a year. The conclusion of the legislation that I have cited is that there is no reason to believe that there are no legal reasons for applying a quarterly charging system, to change it from the annual one that has been so far. This is the proposal that has just been made in this project. The effect or consequence of these changes will be the possibility of avoiding a highly undesirable picture of the Polish banks, which in case of settlement of the burden costs on the Bank Guarantee Fund once at the beginning of the year in the first quarter would show that they could, or had to, lose their balance sheet, which, in the situation yet, I will describe it so, that warm events from the period of the recent financial crisis could have far-reaching consequences, including the application of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [6]. 1 of the Banking Law Act, i.e. the resolution programme. This in turn would undoubtedly be noticed by financial markets, credit rating agencies, and all of us, I think, should depend on the fact that the picture of our sector, the Polish banking sector, is clear, good, so that neither the irresponsible statements of the rulers nor the omissions of legislative changes will harm this picture. And that is the conclusion of our club and the resulting position regarding support for the proposed changes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u123	Thank you, sir. One Member asked the question. Excuse me, Mrs Krystyna Skowronska. I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask questions. Question time - 2 minutes. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u124	Dear Marshal, I have a question for the Minister. It is a regulation and this additional fee. In my club speech, I basically defined the subject. Today's fee plus the additional fee specified by the Minister for Financial Institutions will be a significant additional impact on the Banking Guarantee Fund. Why such a model and such height as defined in the parliamentary project, 0.6% , amended with the Minister's consent to 0.3% as regards the amount of the additional fee? In this respect, in the context of the contested Law on maximum fees for the Banking Guarantee Fund, the amount of the fee is increased, with EU rules talking about a rate of between 0.8% and 0.8%. calculated up to a maximum of 2,4% in a specific time horizon. So is it not a good idea to apply a minimum rate in this respect, as EU legislation says? That's one thing. And the second point, the matter of submitting to the Banking Guarantee Fund in connection with the bankruptcy of the bank and the payment of deposits. In this respect, there is a provision that banks make up for the payment of deposits, and this has happened in the recent period, but the rules do not say that with the mass of bankruptcy in the event of recovery all banks, because it is all banks in Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] they will be able to obtain a partial refund of that amount which has been paid. Such a mechanism does not function in relation to cooperative savings and credit banks. So in this case, I would like to ask the Minister: Isn't there a need for such a revision of the rules that, if some of the funds from the mass of the failing bank are recovered, they can be transferred to the banks that contributed to the payment of deposits held in the failing bank? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u125	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Leszek Skiba. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer your questions one at a time. And at first I would like to thank you for supporting the bill, because we met here in such a situation when all the clubs declared their support, for which I warmly thank you. We are aware that the matter is so important that it does not really raise any additional doubts, but that the doubts that I will, of course, try to answer are specific. One at a time, then. I will start with the point raised by the Member. First of all, when it comes to addressing the European Central Bank, it is formally a parliamentary project, which means in fact that you had an obligation to speak with a marshal. And that is indeed the conclusion I know has been made. [[We don't know, we don't know, and that's why.]] I can't tell you, I don't have the kind of information the answer is right now. I don't think that's the answer yet. Perhaps the European Central Bank is preparing this response in the context of, say, 2, 3 weeks - or maybe even a long time - therefore it is possible that this response from the European Central Bank has just not come up yet. As far as the issue of the fee is concerned, it is worth realizing, here we are talking about the article. 16a. 7 that this exceptional fee mechanism introduced under the Regulation by the Minister responsible for Financial Institutions is a copy of the provision which is contained in the current Act, whereas only the mode has changed. The quarterly mode appeared in place of the annual and the amount was indeed changed. Therefore, as regards the doubts of the Member, is it so that the mode itself changes - nothing changes. In the current law, there is also a mechanism whereby, when the BFG informs about the problem of the exhaustion of funds, the Minister responsible issues a regulation and introduces this additional one, it can be said that a fee is charged to the current BFG. I understand the doubts, but it seems to us that the current mode is sufficient to assume, first, the role of the Banking Guarantee Fund, which informs about the situation. We have a legislative procedure, this mode is transparent, under which opinions will appear from both BFG and KNF, and therefore we recognise that this mode is, we did not anticipate a change of this mode, it is simply still up to and under the regulation of the Minister responsible for the affairs of financial institutions. Another question has been raised by the Member concerning bankruptcy. It is worth remembering that the law is in force. The resolution implementation project also takes on a certain order of claims. Therefore, we have a situation where payment is foreseen in connection with the guarantee of deposits. And first of all, the BFG, which is the institution paying the funds in connection with the guarantee of deposits, will have the right to pursue mass claims that remained after the failing bank. I suspect that very unlikely is, in general, entirely hypothetical, a situation in which, after payment, after repayment, let's say, a certain amount of claims for BFG, i.e. after payment of the entire amount that is balanced with that amount of the guarantee, there will be something left. If that were the case, it would mean that the bank in its mass had all these funds to fully cover the guarantee of deposits, and that would therefore not be possible. Therefore, in fact, the bankruptcy of the banks, as we have seen in recent years, is usually faced with such a situation that the first institution that collects and exhausts all the funds from the weight of the failing bank, is simply BFG, which is satisfied on the basis of the fact that it has paid out the guarantee of deposits. It is simply that there should be no more of these measures in the natural situation, and that is the truth. Mr Wojciechowski's question about the rate. It is worth noting that we are talking about 0.3% here. Originally, it was 0.6%. We are talking here about the rate, which concerns precisely this extraordinary contribution resulting from the situation of exhaustion of BFG funds, introduced by the Minister for Financial Institutions' Regulation. 0.6% it was, let's say, on a yearly basis, and here we are dealing with a situation that this rate covers one quarter. It covers one quarter and that's 0.3%. This is the maximum rate that indicates the amount of this additional fee. Therefore, this is a little bit so that we are dealing with some incomparability here, right, because here we are dealing with 0.6% on an annual basis and 0.3% on a quarterly basis. This should not quite add up, because it is actually difficult to imagine such a situation that the BFG will need such a high amount that this fee will be charged for up to 4 quarters. Nor is it the intention of the Minister of Finance to increase, in an extraordinary way, the burden on banks. As far as the last question, Mr Pudłowski, is concerned, it is difficult for me to comment on this, the question of the resignation of Minister Raczkowski. This is the decision of the Prime Minister at the request of Minister Shamacha and it is not my role to comment on this event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u127	Thank you, Mr... Minister, I'm sorry. In the procedure of correcting Ms Krystyna Skowrońska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u128	Dear Marshal, The question to the Minister was the following and I think it is worth correcting that the Minister did not understand my statement. As regards the bank guarantee fund fee in the event of bank failure, the banks consist of this. This was one case over a period of twenty-something years, because of this and all these measures guaranteed. In the event of recovery, i.e. bankruptcy, all these assets were not bad assets. They agreed that their structure was wrong, but they weren't all assets that were impossible to recover. Thus, if there is a order for the insolvency administrator to meet its claims and to transfer funds to the Banking Guarantee Fund, if the banks consist of 100 and recover from it from the assets for example 50, then these 50 go to the Banking Guarantee Fund. The banks therefore consist of a higher amount than the annual fee itself. I'll be grateful for your written reply. We understand that this is a discussion at the moment, and it does not concern... it concerns the entire bill, because the amount of fees paid to the Banking Guarantee Fund for deposit guarantees and for reporting, but it is quite important because banks have recently made up 3 billion. And if it's recovered and passed on to whom, the syndicate's additional 50% of this amount, and the banks have incurred the costs... This problem is important when we introduced a bank tax, we imposed a fee for the Creditor Support Fund and other charges. So it is also worth talking about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u129	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee of Wiesław Janczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Thank you very much for a fair discussion, for the questions. The answer was exhaustive, in my opinion, the Minister. The discussion was wider than the presentation field itself, which is the topic in this point. But in addition, using the opportunity to speak, also as a representative of the applicants, because we are talking about the parliamentary project, I would like to thank all those who have engaged in the work on this document. In the course of this reading, additional amendments were tabled by a member of the Law and Justice Club today. The fifth amendment, which actually brings this proposal to its starting point, is worth noting that it does not change the amount of the additional fee, as it has so far been in the submission for second reading, in the report of the Committee on Public Finance, to the level 0.15, which is to this basic level. Indeed, it was the intention of the applicants to maintain all these annual parameters and we did not discuss the increase in them in any way, since leaving it in the submission version at a rate of 0,30 would result in a change which would also have to be eligible as an additional risk of doing business in this banking segment, and it certainly was not an element expected by the banking community. Thank you for your kindness towards this project, for your support for it. At the moment, as the amendments have been tabled, he will again be sent to the Committee on Public Finance and I think that there will already be the final shape. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u131	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the centenary of the birth of Maria Mirecka-Loryś - the steadfast hero of the independent Polish state (prints Nos 233 and 254). I ask Mr Piotr Liroy-Marc to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll read the draft resolution. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Maria Mirecka-Loryś - the steadfast hero of the independent Polish state On February 7, 1916, Dominik Mirecki and Paulina from Ścisłowski - Maria were born in the district of Ulanów nad Sana. Since 1937, she has been a student of the Law Faculty of the University of Jan Kazimierz in Lviv. During her studies she joined the ranks of the Academic Union of Youth of All Poland. During World War II, she was involved in a national conspiracy. She held the positions of commandant of the National Military Organisation of Women and the head of the women's section of the Rzeszów National Party's District. After joining the National Military Organization with the National Army, she was promoted to the rank of captain. She was the chief of the National Union of Military Women and the commandant of the Military Service of Women in the Rzeszów AK suburb. Arrested in Nisko by the communist authorities, she was amnestyd and released on September 1, 1945. Threatened by repression, she left Poland, claiming to be a Luxembourg national. She reached the Second Polish Corps of General Władysław Anders near Ankona. In 1952 she emigrated overseas. In Chicago, she was an active activist of Polish organizations. She held managerial positions in the Polish Union in America and in the Congress of American Polonia. She is the initiator of many actions of assistance to Poles in the East, in the territory of the Second Republic. The actions supporting Poles in Kresów lead to this day, driving cyclically to Lviv and other towns of the former Republic. It is known for its warmth and activity. On the 100th anniversary of her birth, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland wishes to express its appreciation for the extraordinary patriot Maria Mirecka-Loryś and to thank her for her huge contribution to the struggle for independence of the Homeland and constant concern for Poles around the world. What can be added to such a resume? I guess it's just that we can be proud and happy to honor one of the living heroes of our homeland. The fact that we can adopt a draft resolution in a moment is an honor for us, Members, not for Mrs Maria Mirecka-Loryś. Mrs Maria was awarded the highest Polish decorations by the successive presidents of the Republic of Poland, but when as a young girl she fought for our freedom, when as an immigrant she helped Poles on the outskirts and on the Eastern Ends, she did not do it for the honors. What do we in this House look like, fighting each other in barren discussions and disputes? Let's take a look at it once or once in a while in the eyes of patriots like Maria Mirecka-Loryś. I request unanimous adoption of the resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u133	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Babinetz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u134	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Maria Mirecka-Loryś - the steadfast hero of the independent Polish state. Maria Mirecka-Loryś is one of the eight brothers and sisters of Mirecki, and I will return to her later. She was born in Ulanów, graduated from junior high school in Nisko, then studied at the Faculty of Law at the University of Jan Kazimierz in Lviv. She was an active activist of the All-Polish Youth. During the occupation, she became involved in the activities of the national conspiracy. She was the commandant of the National Military Organization of Women in the district of Niedanów and later in the district of Rzeszow. She was also a courier of the National Military Organization's Chief Command. She used Marta's nickname back then. An interesting event took place in May 1943 at Jasna Góra, where she participated in the conspiracy renewal of the vows which Polish academics made during the pilgrimage in May 1936. In 1943, she took a repeated vow on behalf of young people, as she later mentioned, she was a representative of Lviv, and Karol Wojtyla was a representative of Krakow. Later she was promoted to commandant of the Military Women's Service in the Sub-Circuit of AK Rzeszów and finally in 1945 she became chief of the National Union of Military Women. So it can be said that she was a commandant at the time on a nationwide scale of one of the independent organizations, an organization that fought for the independence of our homeland under occupations. After World War II in August 1945, she was arrested by Communists by the Security Office. Persecuted, then fled, managed to flee abroad, eventually moved to the United States. There, of course, she became involved in the activities of Polish organizations, and what is very important, since the 1970s, she has been visiting her brother, Father Bronisław, into the area of the Soviet Union or the Soviet occupation, in other words, and carrying there, smuggling - even called the smuggler of God - the things needed for Poles: clothes, food, religiousism. In 2006 she was awarded by President Lech Kaczyński as the Commander's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland and later, this year, awarded by President Andrzej Duda as the Commander's Cross with the Star of Polonia Restitut. It is worth adding here, quoting Prof. Krzysztof Kaczmarski, a researcher of the national underground and national movement, a few sentences about the Maria family. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Adam was arrested five times by the Gestapo. Four times he was lucky to escape, after the fifth he went to a German concentration camp. After the war, he was arrested twice by the UB, sentenced to death and murdered in a Mokotów prison. Leon, arrested four times by UB and SB, spent almost 10 years in communist prisons. Janina spent two and a half years in prison. Kazimierz, Maria and Helena were lucky to escape the Soviet-occupied Poland, after years Janina joined them. After the war, Father Bronisław remained among his parishioners in the East, where, as an authentic witness of Christ, he preached the word of God, being continually persecuted by the Soviet security apparatus. In the People's Poland remained Valeria, but here let's add that she was persecuted for many years by Bolshevik minions. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Maria Mirecka-Loryś, although formally living in Chicago, has been spending part of every year in the family Racławice in Podkarpacie for many years. Every year, also today, he goes to the East with gifts for Poles who need this support most. She is faithful to the memory of all her brothers and all her sisters. The Law and Justice Club strongly supports the draft resolution. This is a tribute to Mrs Maria so well deserved for the Polish cause, the national cause, the independence of our homeland and the entire Mirecki family. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u135	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Wasilewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club in relation to the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Maria Mirecka-Loryś, the steadfast hero of the independent Polish state. Maria Mirecka-Loryś, born on 7 February 1916 in Ulanów, grew up in a very patriotic family, whose guide was absolute faithfulness to God and homeland. She studied law at the University of Lviv and then joined the Academic Union of Youth of All Poland. However, the war interrupted youthful plans and dreams and then Maria Mirecka became involved in the conspiracy work. In 1939 and the following years, she faced challenges, dramas, and elections. In 1940. Maria Mirecka became the commander of the National Military Organization of Women of the Rzeszowski District and was also the courier of the Main Command. After the war, she continued her legal studies at the Jagiellonian University, was arrested for many months, and immediately after her release she left Poland, claiming to be a Luxembourg national. She reached the camp of the 2nd corps of General Anders near Ankona and later with her husband to the UK and in 1952 to the United States. That's where she moved to Chicago. He lives there until now, but he visits Poland very often. She was and is a very active Polish activist. For 70 years, she's also been a lineman. He does not agree to mistreatment of Poles in Ukraine. She received many awards for fighting in conspiracy, anti-communist underground and for socio-charity activities. With her life, she proved that being out of bounds, you can serve your country faithfully. The life of Maria Mirecka-Loris was and is an incredibly beautiful life. She has never forgotten her compatriots, and this is not only about the great heart, but also about the greatness of humanity, the extraordinary patriotic upbringing, the extraordinary love for her homeland, and this Republic will never forget her. This year Maria Mirecka-Loryś turned 100 on February 7. Given the above, I am pleased to declare that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u137	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Furgo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is March, a month started on the day of the cursed soldiers, which at the initiative of President Lech Kaczyński is dedicated to the memory of those who did not put up their weapons in 1945 and continued to fight the expansion of Stalinism in our country. It is our duty to restore honor and honor to those whom so many have died or have been tortured by the communist security services and the NKVD. There are so few of them. We must bear in mind that among the fighting and persecuted soldiers were defending the independence of women whose participation remains unsurpassable. That's the case with your Captain. Maria Mirecka-Loryś, the last living commander of the armed formation of the independence underground. That is why I am honored to be able to give my position on behalf of Members of Modernity on the occasion of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Maria Mirecka-Loryś, the steadfast hero of the independent Polish state. Members, the resolution in honor of Mrs Maria Mirecka-Loris has no precedent in this way to honour the achievements of outstanding figures in their lifetime. It is a very valuable and important return in the sejm activities, because we should always remember the heroes and thank them personally for working for free Poland. And it must be remembered that in the case of Mrs. Maria this work continues. When the war broke out, Mrs. Maria Mirecka-Loryś was a student at the University of Lviv. Since the beginning of the occupation, she has been involved in conspiracy activities, one year later she headed the National Military Organization of Women in the Niedan Voivodeship and then became the commander of the Rzeszowski District of the women's armed unit and head of the women's section in the management board of the Rzeszów National Party. In 1945 she was appointed chief of the National Military Union of Women. After the end of World War II, she was arrested and imprisoned until September 1, 1945. Then she was fired. She decided to leave Poland to join General Władysław Anders' second corps in Italy and eventually settle in the United States in 1956. Behind the ocean she did not cease her activity for Poland, but, on the contrary, became an active Polish activist. Her activity is the best proof that patriotism does not recognize borders, and love for her country does not weaken, even when she is so far away from the country. Ladies and gentlemen, great figures are still with us. We should learn from those who have not hesitated for a moment to sacrifice what is most precious in their lives in order to save their homeland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Such a price had to be paid also by Mrs Maria, leaving Poland. I would therefore like to pay tribute to all the great patriots whose socialist authorities tried to forget and exclude from the pantheon the great Poles. I must mention that among them are certainly the brothers Mrs.Maria - Kazimierz, Leon and Adam Mireccy, well-deserved independence activists. Adam Mirecki paid the highest price for his business in 1952. Maria Mirecka-Loryś, once a soldier cursed, today a Polish hero, authority and patriotism. We feel obliged, like Mrs.Maria Mirecka-Loryś, to uphold the independence and freedom of our country, especially since there is still a wonderful teacher of Polish patriotism among us. High Seym! On behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to express our favourable position on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Maria Mirecka-Loryś - the steadfast hero of the independent Polish state. It's proof that we remember, appreciate and thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u139	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Urszula Pasławska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u140	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Maria Mirecka-Loryś's birth. The Polish People's Party supports the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Maria Mirecka-Loryś's birth. Maria Mirecka is a well-deserved national underground activist from 1939 to 1945. During her studies at the Faculty of Law at the University of Jan Kazimierz in Lviv she joined the Academic Union of Youth of All Poland. After the outbreak of the war, she became involved in a conspiracy. In the spring of 1940, she became the commandant of the National Military Organization of Women in the district of Niedan. At the same time, she was head of the women's section on the board of the Rzeszów district and courier of the headquarters. In the spring of 1945 she became chief of the National Military Union of Women. In 1943 she participated in the conspiracy renewal of the vows at Jasna Góra, which Polish academics made during the pilgrimage in May 1936. In the 36-person group of young people Maria Mirecka-Loryś represented Lviv, and Karol Wojtyła - Kraków - present there. In January 1952 she and her family went to the United States, first to Toledo, Ohio, in 1954 to Chicago. There she engaged in work in Polish organizations. It worked, among others. in the National Party, she was a member of the Management Board of the Main Polish Union in America and the National Management Board of the Congress of American Polonia. For 32 years she was an editor of the Polish Voice - an organ of the Polish Union in America. Since the '70s. The 20th century is committed to helping Poles on the old Ends. In December 1999, she became Vice-President of the General Council of the National Party. He works with the Polish radio in Chicago all the time, for which he records weekly videos from the series "Open Microphone." For many years she has helped Poles in the East, and this work continues despite an old, beautiful age. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u141	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the memory of Jam Saheba Digvijay Sinhji (prints No 235 and 255). I ask Mr Bogusław Sonik to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u142	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. On 3 February 2016, we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the death of Jama Saheb Shri Digvijaysinhji Ranjitsinhji Jadeja, the maharaj of the Duchy of Nawanagar, a man who, of good will and selflessly helped over a thousand Polish children who managed to evacuate from the Soviet Union after 24 December 1941. The Polish children who were sent to India were taken from the Siberian territory of the Soviet Union by General Władysław Anders to Iran. From there they were relocated to different countries of the world. About 5,000. The orphans came to India. Some of the young Poles were taken care of by the Good Maharaja, as they used to call it. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, reminding the figure of Jama Saheba Shri Digvijaysinhji Ranjitsinhji Jadeja, the maharadi of the Duchy of Nawanagar, on the 50th anniversary of his death, honors and pays tribute to him for his great merits and great selflessness, which he demonstrated, saving from hunger and suffering more than a thousand Polish children. The Committee on Culture has unanimously adopted this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u143	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anita Czerwinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the resolution commemorating the Good Maharaja - Jama Saheba Digvijay Sinhji. This great friend of Poles gave shelter to Polish orphans evacuated from inhuman land. He built settlements, provided the maintenance, education, cultural, physical and spiritual development of thousands of Polish children. Harshad Kumariji, the daughter of His Majesty Jama Saheba of Nawanagar, mentioned the circumstances of deciding to take care of Polish children: During a lunch break during one of the meetings of the Imperial War Council in London he heard about the conditions under which Polish children are staying - that there is no place for them to be, that no country wants to accept them. Then he offered to take responsibility for them. It was said that the British government was upset - that offer was not good for them. So he said he didn't ask anyone for permission, but he invited the children to Nawanagar as his guests. Finally, after a long exchange of correspondence, which I later learned from Colonel Clark, he was told: "You can accept them, but without your permission to take care of them. And he said, They shall be my personal guests. And indeed, all the expenses for children came from his personal funds, but not from the Treasury. That's how the daughter of Good Maharaja ended her relationship. Jam Saheb Digvijay Sinhji saved his life and restored the dignity of many of the youngest Polish wanderers. He deserves our greatest respect, gratitude and eternal memory. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u145	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Bogusław Sonik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u146	In a conversation with General Władysław Sikorski in 1942. Morning. Maharaja Jam Saheb Digvijay Sinhji, taken over by the fate of small wanderers, said: Deeply touched and overwhelmed by the sufferings of the Polish nation, and especially by those whose childhood ends in the tragic conditions of the most terrible war, I wanted in some way to help improve their fate. I offered them hospitality in lands far away from the storm of war. Maybe there, in beautiful mountains along the seashore, children will be able to recover, maybe they will be able to forget all that they have survived, and gain strength for future work as citizens of a free country. Following the example of the Good Maharaja, other Maharajas followed, and the total war storm survived in India about 5,000. Polish children. At the end of the war in Polish Children Camp there were about 200 youngest residents, whose return to Poland was soon requested by communists. In order to protect them from this, the children were adopted mass by Maharja, British liaison officer Jeffrey Clark and Fr. Francis Pluta. Good Maharaja did not hide his positive attitude towards Poland either. He said, "I will always sympathize with the future of your country." I am sure that Poland will be free and you will return to your happy homes. On the occasion of commemorating the Good Maharaja, I would like to remind you that such actions against Polish children already had historical precedents. When Soviet troops approached Warsaw in 1920, the daughter of the Polish exile Anna Bielkiewicz went to Japan to seek help for Polish children. At that time in Soviet Russia there were about 6 million improvised, homeless, feral children. Cheques picked them up and headed to the camps. Poland, as soon as it was reborn, decided to save Polish children. More than 3.5,000 have been found in one region of Zabajkal. Anna Bielkiewicz went to Japan. There she persuaded Empress Sanako to accept these children. The Japanese gave medical care, transportation, and paid for everything. This saved 763 children who were enthusiastically welcomed by the Japanese in Osaka. After a few weeks, the small sibiracs were sent to Poland by sea routes. This heroic daughter of the exile, Mrs Bielkiewicz, went on to look for Polish children. She obtained permission from the Soviet mission in Beijing to transport further children, this time by land. These are special people, special cases. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again, I stress that the Civic Platform will vote in favour of honoring the Good Maharaja. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u147	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Romekowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 and at the same time to present as an applicant a resolution to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the death of Jam Saheb Digvijay Sinhji, a great man, a man of great heart, a good friend of Poland and Poles. When General Władysław Anders and General Sikorski asked the question, what in return for this help, which he was the first aristocrat of India, the Indian offered for the children of wanderers, those children who left the house of captivity, the inhuman land, Soviet Russia and the army of Anders, he said that his dream was to name a street after him after the German occupation in free Warsaw after the war. In Warsaw there is a square - the square of Good Maharaja. At our initiative, we want the High House to honor the memory of a great man, a man who has not only personally taken in more than 1,000. Polish children, gave a roof over their heads, fed, provided medical care, allowed to learn, but also provided entertainment, the development of these young people who in this war-break often lost their loved ones, contact with Poland, with Polishness, could continue it just in India, in the hospitable land of Nawanagar, where Good Maharaja was a prince. It is also important to stress, as the previous speaker mentioned, Mr Sonik, that behind the Good Maharaga followed other aristocratic and Indian citizens, who also began to receive Polish children, those who were homeless, there was no place for them in this misfortune of World War II. To conclude, I ask the High House to adopt a resolution commemorating the 50th anniversary of the death of Good Maharaja. I, on behalf of the Kukiz club15, assure you that we will support this draft resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u149	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Kukiz15 formation very much for the draft resolution. This is all the more surprising and important to me that your attitude towards refugees is quite restrictive. At this point, it is worth saying a few sentences about Jamie Saheb Digvijaysinhji, called the Good Maharaja. It is one of the unjustly forgotten heroes of the 20th century history of Poland, especially since its values should nowadays be strongly reminded of society, as well as politicians, especially those sitting on the right side of the hall. The media reports of acts of aggression against foreigners, the case of Syrians in Zgorzelec or offensive words against a Muslim woman using a public swimming pool, fueled by scandalous and hurtful statements such as Jarosław Kaczyński about refugees who bring with them diseases and parasites, show how important it is to get acquainted with Poles with the character and the work of Good Maharaja. Without looking for excuses in cultural or religious differences that are so often quoted today, he has sheltered nearly 5,000 people. Polish children orphaned by war activities in 1939 and 1945. He helped them with an unconditional, politically devoid calculation. He made a gesture that comes with great difficulty towards the Syrian refugees of the present Polish government. In 2011, President Bronisław Komorowski posthumously awarded Good Maharaja with the Commander's Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland. Not by chance since 1999 his name has been named by the Warsaw School of Social Education Complex under the direction of Krystyna Starczewska, where in almost every class there are foreigners, most often children of refugees. So-called. Bednar's emphasis is on freedom education, but above all it teaches tolerance and emphasizes the subjectivity of each individual. Public events and statements on the refugee crisis indicate that these are still deficit values, which is why we should all the more agree to the request to celebrate the Good Maharaga on the 50th anniversary of his death on 3 February 2016. On behalf of the Modern One, of course, I support this resolution as much as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u151	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, Mrs Urszula Pasławska made her statement in writing. I do not know if the rapporteur still wants to speak. Mr Sonik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u152	I would just like to express my satisfaction and satisfaction that the Polish Sejm is also a place of memory, of those who in difficult times carried help to Polish exiles. This is certainly some human and humanistic message and example to follow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u153	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u154	The Polish People's Party supports the commemoration of Jam Saheba Digvijay Sinhji. Maharaja Jam Saheba Digvijay Sinhji was an heir to the Dukeship of Nawanagar in western India. Till the '20s. The 19th century was not connected with Poland. He spent his youth training in Indian and British schools. While living with his uncle in Switzerland, he met Ignacy Paderewski, who was his neighbor. Discussions about Poland, which took place there, made such an impression on the young prince that he was actively interested in her fate for the rest of his life. After the announcement of amnesty by the Soviet authorities in 1941, all of the hundreds of thousands of our compatriots (mainly mothers with children and orphans) exported to the East after entering the Polish Red Army in 1939 remained without any permanent shelter. During the war, several countries, among others, helped them. Mexico and New Zealand. But the first to help is India. The war lasted about 5,000 there. Polish children. Nearly $1,000. lived in an estate in Balachadi built by Jam Saheb. In addition to his personal financial contribution and his own work, Maharaja also encouraged the House of Indian Princes to accept a voluntary commitment to keep 500 Polish children until the end of World War II. In Delhi, a Committee was set up to help Polish children, which consisted of voluntary victims of private individuals and individual amounts declared by dozens of maharajs who committed themselves to maintaining a certain number of children until the end of the war. It is also worth paying special attention to how closely he was associated with the inhabitants of the settlements. He participated in all events organized in the centers. He was interested in Polish culture and traditions. In the relations of then children who had the opportunity to live in the estate, however, the most emphasized is the generosity of Jam Saheba, openness to Polish refugees, sincere interest in their personal problems and joys, hospitality, mildness, spontaneity, great involvement in the whole life of the settlement. In his speeches he emphasized that he would always be faithful and loyal to Poland. He was convinced that Poland would be free, that everyone would return to their homes and a country free from oppression. The war storm in this and other settlements survived in India about 5,000. Polish children.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u155	We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. I'm declaring a five-minute break. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 12 hours 15 min 21]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report by the European Union's Committee on European Union Affairs on draft resolutions on: - immigration policy of the Polish state within the European Union, - immigration policy of Poland (prints no. 18, 230 and 250). I ask Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u156	I present the report of the committee on draft resolutions on the immigration policy of the Polish state in the European Union, i.e. prints no. 18 and 230. The Commission has decided to consider these two draft resolutions together. I would like to remind you that these are a draft resolution submitted by the Kukiz club15 and a draft resolution submitted by the Law and Justice Club 230, which is a leading project and a project annexed to the report of the Commission for European Affairs. The European Union's Committee on Affairs held a discussion on the draft resolution of the Sejm, in fact a joint discussion on both projects. This discussion resulted in the rejection of one amendment tabled by the Kukiz club15, in which its applicants wanted the draft resolution to include an additional call on the government to take a political offensive to amend the decision and the content of the decision of 22 September 2015. The Commission did not accept this amendment, considering that this decision, in a legal sense, is in force and any political offensive here, as demonstrated by the lack of such an offensive by other Visegrad Group countries, would not be justified, while the committee supported all the other conclusions of the draft submitted by the Law and Justice Club, and these four conclusions will be indicated in a signal. Firstly, the committee supported the thesis of a clear negative assessment of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Poland, which supported the decision of the Council of the European Union of 22 September to relocate 160 000. refugees within the European Union. It was a government position contrary to the other countries of the Visegrad Group. Secondly, the draft resolution calls for strict application of the criteria of national refugee policy, i.e. criteria that we select each individual individual person who is to be present in Poland. In the first place, it should be a priority to receive children, religious minorities and families of many children. We believe that immigration and refugee policy should remain in the hands of the Polish state and should be applied restrictively. Thirdly, it is a fundamental issue to express opposition to the Polish Sejm to the establishment in the future of any permanent mechanism for the allocation of refugees in Poland, and the Sejm in the resolution, such opposition is expressed in the draft resolution. At point four, the last, the Sejm calls for humanitarian aid in armed conflict countries and neighbouring countries. Two more points to complement this report, so as to put the discussion on the committee. During the discussion, the most common question was why we should adopt this resolution. We stand in a position, I also say here as the person representing the draft resolution's applicants, that in important matters taking place before our eyes, in the sphere of international policy, when we are dealing with an immigration and refugee crisis with which the European Union is unable to cope, Poland should be active and this activity should, of course, show the government of the Republic of Poland, which is conducting international policy, but the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, as an organ, should also take up its position in these important matters and express a strong, firm and unambiguous voice, so that there is no doubt that the government of the Republic of Poland has the support of the parliamentary majority in conducting relevant foreign policies. That is why it is appropriate to adopt an appropriate draft resolution on this subject. On the other hand, the second point which also appeared in the discussion to which it is worth addressing is the question of questioning the first entry in the draft resolution - about the fact that on 22 September our government broke out of the Visegrad Group countries. This is an important issue, worth commenting on, that this issue was raised in the committee by Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, saying that this first point of the draft resolution is lying, does not give the truth that there was no consent of Poland, the decision was made in consensus and all the Visegrad Group countries also agreed on it. Well, I'll give you two quotes. One quote from TVN24 from that day. I quote: the European Union has decided to split the refugees in a vote. The vast majority of countries voted in favour of this solution. Among them was Poland. The Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania voted against this solution. Finland abstained. This means that Poland broke out of the Visegrad Group's block of countries and supported the position of Brussels. End of quote. The second quote illustrates the climate of this decision. Polish The Times, also dated 22 September. I quote: the Polish government has so far spoken against the top-down amounts of immigrants to be adopted by each member state. The other three countries of the Visegrad Group held a similar position. During the vote on Tuesday, the head of the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Teresa Piotrowska, voted unexpectedly in favour of the European Union's proposal. End of quote. This shows that perhaps you were the Prime Minister not quite remembering the recent decisions made by her government. This, too, is not the best evidence, and all the more so that we should assess these decisions in the resolution of the Sejm negatively. If you have questions for the provisions of this draft resolution, I will be happy to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u157	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dominik Tarczyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice I have the honour to present my position on the resolution on immigration policy of Poland. This resolution is a resolution necessary, this resolution is a resolution necessary because of what is happening in Europe and what is already beginning in Poland. This is a resolution that tells us what politics should look like. It stresses, and here I would like to quote the sentence of the resolution, against any attempt to establish EU permanent mechanisms for the allocation of refugees or immigrants. And that's very important. Because if we agree that the European Union should decide how many immigrants are to be in Poland, in which areas, if, two weeks before the elections, the government of the Civic Platform has announced a tender for refugee centres, without consulting in any way with local governments or with the public, and now the Prime Minister does not remember his decision, it is very dangerous. It is our duty to ensure the safety of Poles, it is our duty not to allow the situation that is taking place now in Germany, which is taking place in Sweden. We've all witnessed how many rapes and crimes have occurred. But this is just one element of immigration policy. Because, of course, it's not that we don't want to help people who are in need. It is not that we are excluded from European solidarity. I would like to remind you that in the case of all the major actions during the really powerful disasters in Nepal, in Chile the first teams who helped and carried humanitarian aid, were Polish crews. Polish firefighters were the first to arrive, although we are on the other side of the world. So Poland is ready to help, Poland does not break out of solidarity, but we should help where this aid is needed, not by the imposed allocation amounts from the European Union. It's our duty to keep things safe. Therefore, please in the name of security, responsibility and prevention of what may happen in Poland, so that the High Chamber can support the draft, this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u159	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Michał Stasiński, the Modern Club. There's no envoy. In that case, I would ask Mrs Andzelika Możjanovska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish People's Party and to refer to the resolution, two joint resolutions. It was last year that we could not be together in working out the Polish response to threats of our times. Political disputes, the campaign did not allow us to act in full agreement. This is a mistake, because in matters as important as the immigration crisis one must act together and represent one Polish point of view on the international stage. The migration crisis has created a serious challenge for European solidarity and the European Union's system of functioning as an organisation. The Schengen area has been paralyzed, border controls have returned, and this is the foundation of the common European acquis. In 2015, more than one million immigrants arrived in the European Union itself, which has given rise to an urgent need to develop solutions and mechanisms that would allow the crisis to be overcome and its negative effects removed. It has become necessary to define a long-term strategy to prevent similar situations in the future. These circumstances have led to the polarisation of the positions of the Member States of the European Union in a turbulent debate on the policy that Europe should apply to the migration crisis. There has been no agreement on both actions towards those who have already arrived in Europe and on a forward-looking plan to resolve the crisis. Stresses and racial, religious, and ethnic incidents are increasing. The European Union has taken steps to resolve the crisis which has not proved to be sufficient. However, it is important to remember that it is not the Union, it is not Poland that is responsible for the current crisis. It is worrying that the planning of measures to address the migration crisis at its source, i.e. in countries facing war or other internal problems, seems to have been postponed so far. Problems should be solved at source. The European Union has considered various aid mechanisms for refugees, but a large group of so-called refugees. refugees fleeing the war turned out to be economic immigrants who took advantage of the hospitality of European countries, especially Germany. The permanent relocation mechanism was wrong, and Poland was among the countries opposed to the introduction of a permanent relocation system. In connection with the protests, the European Commission has committed itself to developing a return programme for those who are not eligible for asylum and to working more closely with Turkey to retain as many migrants as possible in its territory. The lack of a uniform policy has led countries that are sceptical about reception of refugees to act on their own. The Hungarian authorities have decided to build a fence at the border with Serbia and Croatia to protect the border from the influx of migrants in Hungary, Austria and Germany. During the year we have come a great way in Europe - we invite you and welcome you, we want you and get out. Therefore, I appeal on behalf of the Polish People's Party that we should be wise after harm. Last year, probably not only because of the ongoing political campaigns, we were unable to discuss and agree our national response to these challenges. Last year there was not a single meeting full of political representation of political leaders in these matters. Our response, our proposals and actions cannot be merely proposals from the President, Parliament and Government, the majority or minorities. Following the sealing of the Balkan migration route, the threat and threat of a new migration route across Ukraine to Wednesday Europe becomes real. The growing destabilization of the situation in the region, the lack of progress in normalization of the situation in Syria, uncertainty and destabilisation in the north of Africa, the lack of progress in resolving the situation in the east of Ukraine - this should finally force us to agree and act Communityly. That is why we are calling for the failure to report underdeveloped solutions, seemingly simple and generally acceptable, but which can bind hands in the effective operation of the President, the Government or the Foreign Minister. Opinions and positions of the Chambers of Parliament should be discussed and agreed with other national authorities. I maintain my position on full commitment to humanitarian aid and support for women and children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u161	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Trzaskowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u162	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! This problem is one of the most serious problems facing the European Union. This is a problem that the current rule of law and justice will have to confront. In fact, I do not fully understand the purpose of these resolutions, because these resolutions, even the Law and Justice resolution, will actually only make the work of your own government more difficult. I understand that it is mainly for political reasons that you want to start this discussion and have this resolution. It is a pity that you do not want to talk calmly with the opposition because it seems to me that on some aspects we could develop a common position, cool these emotions a little bit and help the European Union to solve the most difficult problem that the Union is facing. We are all talking about the need to solve problems in third countries and the need to try to address them there. We're all in agreement about that. But let's be honest: it just isn't enough. If the European Union wants to solve this problem, it will not be solved through assistance in third countries, but other very far-reaching measures must be taken. Now, here's the question. If we are talking about the fact that we do not want permanent mechanisms, and no one wants them, if we do not want to talk about further relocations and that many European Union countries do not want to talk at the moment, then we need to make tough decisions on very large financial support for Turkey, going into hundreds of millions of zlotys, securing borders, as well as strengthening the EU border service. And here I don't see much enthusiasm on the side of Law and Justice either. So how do we solve this problem? We tried to solve it holistically. We said clearly: first we need to strengthen the borders of the European Union. Without that, we can't solve the problem. Secondly, refugees must be clearly separated from economic migrants. If someone comes from a relatively safe country, they should be sent back to the country of origin. Plus, there's got to be verification centers. We therefore agreed to a one-off, non-permanent relocation of 7,000 as part of the programme. refugees, because such a number would fall on Poland. This is a number that we could easily accept, nothing would happen in Poland. We'd be helping people who really need this help. And there is no reason for Poles to fear that it would happen on the basis of this decision anything drastic. We fought to ensure that there was no permanent mechanism, because we knew that if there was a permanent mechanism, Poland and other Member States would lose control of how many possible refugees would reach us. So that there's no constant mechanisms, that's what's important to us. There were no permanent mechanisms, there were no records of any permanent nature, there were no such solutions in the decision we agreed to. I would stress that this was a one-off decision. Without this decision, there would be no plan to deal with this problem. There would be no beginning to strengthen borders. There would be no construction of verification centres. We'd just hide our head in the sand. That is why this decision has been taken. With regard to the permanent mechanism - here is full agreement - the Civic Platform and PSL government never wanted to agree to this and we have fought against it above all, therefore these ideas seem less and less popular at the moment. Nothing's been imposed on us. Let's be clear. The decision was taken in the European Union as a result of a qualified majority vote. The committee didn't impose it on us or anyone else. This decision has been taken by the Member States. The Visegrad Group was well aware of our position. It was known that there was no blocking minority even with Poland, and we chose rational behaviour, i.e. trying to solve the problem completely and trying to negotiate solutions that would be good. We could've let it go, and then we'd have these refugees right now. Because we're the ones who took care of those mechanisms that talked about verification, about security. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Don't laugh, sir. It wasn't there. There's no decision to relocate right now because it's hard to write down that there has to be a confirmed identity. If there is no confirmed identity, these people will not go to Poland. There are also hard records that these people have to agree to come to Poland. Those records wouldn't be there. I understand that your philosophy is to shout out loud and then crash into a wall and not negotiate anything. This is how the Slovaks chose for political reasons and Hungarians who would still accept these refugees. It would be better to focus on decisions that will ensure safety, because that is the most important thing. And he can scare himself, organize referendums, scare Poles by the fact that there are no known numbers of people coming here. People with unchecked identities aren't coming here. Even if we execute the 7,000th plan, if, of course, the conditions are met, nothing terrible will happen. We are simply obliged to help people who escape death and persecution. There should be nothing controversial about that. As far as the centres are concerned, yes, every government is planning for the future, so the centres were reserved in case something happened in Ukraine and also as part of the preparation for the relocation programme. Now we need to think about how to deal with this problem in a holistic way so that Poland can bring its constructive voice in solving this problem, because there is no other solution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And there is no need to scare Poles and use it only for political war, because you will have a problem with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u163	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Jaskola.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! When I listen to your comments, I am impressed by hypocrisy and deception, with all due respect. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! What's the difference? The fact that some agreed to the relocation system and, to be honest, they were politically subject to strong countries in the European Union, and others agreed to the first step on relocation and even under the influence of social protests at the moment do not give up on this first step, while they are giving up on further, more, perhaps, because it is not certain. Ladies and gentlemen! The Kukiz Club15 presents a completely different vision. 75% Polish society sees your policy towards immigrants in a completely different way. When I hear Mr Trzaskowski talking about some identification centers, I will, of course, smile. I mean, the trade in left documents and passports is booming, and you don't stand a chance. There is a normal war on the Macedonian border - people led by organized groups are pushing the Macedonian border. That's how I approached Minister Waszczykowski. I did not hear any comments from you at the time to support Macedonia and the Macedonian-Greek border, but you know perfectly well what Greek-Macedonian relations are like. But let me ask you a question about who said that. Quote: It is really important to ask whether the government has the right under foreign pressure, external pressure and without the express will of the nation to make decisions which with a high degree of probability can have a negative impact on our lives, everyday life, public space, our real sphere of freedom, and, finally, what has been raised here, on our security. I want to be clear: PiS believes that the government does not have the right to make such a decision. A decision like that other than what? Except for the referendum, because here is the will of the nation. Who said that? President Jarosław Kaczyński in this House in September 2015. In fact, I could not perform here at all, do a show with a tablet and present to you a speech by Jarosław Kaczyński, who in September 2015 spoke very clearly about this: not relocation, because it undermines Polish sovereignty. We must speak on one of the most important aspects - you are not the one deciding on this matter in this House. I hope this will be clear: it is for citizens to decide in a referendum whether they will accept or not any tranche of relocated immigrants or so-called. refugees. There are many problems here, among others. There are problems with the issue of political responsibility. Therefore, my colleague will also present the position of our club. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that we are making an amendment to this project, two projects in principle, because you have, as I see it, been forced to recall the situation before the election campaign. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u165	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Bakun.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A colleague of Tomasz Jaskoła has already presented part of the position of our club. I wanted to thank the drafters for calling things by name - immigration policy rather than refugee policy. You called these people by their first name. Most of these people are immigrants, unfortunately, not refugees. We are not at the Kukiz Club15 for not helping real refugees and people in need of help, but we do not see the point of helping economic migrants, since 3 million of our citizens are immigrants to the West. You also know that in the Committee on European Affairs, we already tabled a very similar draft resolution in November, which did not meet your interest at the time. To Mr Trzaskowski - I wanted to say that I was in Germany last week, I was in France, I talked to these people, I was among others. at Tempelhof airport, where at the moment there are about 30,000. immigrants. The Germans themselves who are there will admit that they lost 130,000. persons. Why don't you tell us where these people are? [[Applause]] and how It's the verification point of Tempelhof that makes sure these people don't get lost. 130,000 lost. persons [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the German Government He doesn't know where they are. These people were supplied with documents, were supposed to report to the camps of destiny, and they never got there. Just a minute, literally 30 seconds. I just wanted to say that Kukiz15 has been in this position since the beginning. We've started a page. It's day-to-day. pl, to which I encourage your Members from the PiS to visit, to take declarations and collect signatures for issuing a referendum, because, as you say, you listen to the citizens. These signatures have already been signed by over 100,000. People.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u167	Mr President, 30 seconds have passed, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u168	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u169	He asked for the floor of Mr Trzaskowski as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I only wanted one thing in correction mode because I was accused of lying. The whole time we talk about the example of Germany, France and those passports that die, etc. The problem is that these people who are now going to France or Germany, mostly, have not been verified anywhere in the vast majority of them. So it can happen that they will be very different people. There can be people there without any papers, without a confirmed identity - that's just how it can be. On the other hand, in the case of the relocation program, all these people who are going to Poland - this was the decision that the Law and Justice are going to make now - will come, it will happen on a completely different basis. If these centers - we can of course joke and joke about verification centers - they will not work, then there will be no relocation. That's why with relocation right now, it's like 106 grand. Only 500 people have been relocated. Only when these centers act when the verification is confirmed - and you can verify whether the documents are authentic or not, interview these people, check where they are from exactly - and this verification process is double, first in these verification centres, then through our services, so that you can assume that these people who come to us will be tested as far as possible... So let's not compare these people to citizens who are now in Germany or France, where no one has confirmed... [[But they'll be relocated.]] ...where no one confirmed... No, they're not gonna be relocated. Read the decision. Don't laugh. People will only be relocated from Italy and Greece, not Germany and France. Read the decision before you start talking about it. No, only these people will be... The relocation process concerns people who are either in Italy or Greece, with precisely the figures given, after passing through the verification centres. Therefore, this program does not work at the moment, because the conditions laid down by the Polish government have not been fulfilled. Nor do these people report to them. Don't nod your head, educate yourself and read your decision before you start scaring the Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Good. Come over here and listen to the people.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u171	Thank you. Once again, this time Mr Tomasz Jaskola. One minute, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u172	Ten seconds, Marshal. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! You are so good at verifying that it took you 26 years to verify the true identity of Lech Wałęsa, or Bolka. [[Applause]] [[But you flashed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u173	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Michał Stasiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me not comment on Mr Jaskoła's last statement, because it is a statement... [[Thank you. It's disgraceful.]] ...dignity, below any level that Members of this House should have. [[Applause]] The situation that we have at the moment, as regards your resolution, is different from that when you wrote this resolution. The European Union-Turkey Summit has shown that the situation has now become more dynamic. The next summit, the next meeting we are waiting for, I think it will solve a very specific number of problems. But we have one thing to say. We strongly support Mrs Beata Szydło's international position that the PiS government will honour the findings adopted in the European Council on 22 September 2015. We remind you that the fundamental principle of continuity of commitments is the foundation of international law. There is no possibility of selective choice by the changing government of the law to which it will apply or does not apply. It should also be emphasized, I will repeat the words of my previous speakers, that these obligations do not mean an unlimited and uncontrolled influx of refugees into Poland, and the mechanisms established guarantee the security of our country and its citizens. On the other hand, your request in the first subparagraph to break the findings and act contrary to the interests of the Visegrad Group is strange and completely incomprehensible. Poland's active participation in the negotiations has just guaranteed us a real impact on the final effect, which the other Visegrad Group countries consciously deprived themselves of. More, the actions of some members of the Visegrad Group, particularly Hungary, in the light of the last European Union-Turkey summit show that they are de facto deeply anti-EU and anti-European. The proposed solutions, which aim at creating divisions within the Union, setting fences, walls, lack of solidarity within the Union, are a road to nowhere. It should also be recalled that the Visegrad Group, as Minister Szymański said on 15 February 2016, declared: the Visegrad Group also wants the EU's external border protection solutions to be European, not individual or regional - here fully You can agree with the Visegrad Group. As Turkey's negotiations - the European Union - have shown, the solution to this crisis must be international and intra-EU. Only the strong and active presence of Poland during these negotiations guarantees a real impact on the agreed arrangements. As for the permanent allocation mechanism, let's say again. It amazes the stubborn and constant return to the claim that this mechanism exists. This mechanism doesn't exist. Here's one brief remark. It seems a little weird to stress the success that the government supposedly achieved by Prime Minister Beata Szydło at the last European Union-Turkey summit and the alleged amendment to the absence of this permanent mechanism. There was no permanent mechanism, and this amendment had nothing to do with it. What we can unfortunately observe at the moment in Poland, and this is mainly a remark to one of the groups present in this Chamber, which is not a political party, is simply a very cynical use of European problems, creating an atmosphere of fear and danger, stimulating xenophobic and often racist moods for building political strength of this party or other party or group. It is an extremely debilitating action which is decisively against the interests of Poland, both in internal policy and in the policy of the European Union. Let us also note that discrediting other people, discrediting people who have another religion, speaking another language, having another, from just the right color of the skin, I guess that this only right color is white, finally using a language of hatred, and often calling for violence is nothing but a repetition of the views of the party with which we deeply disagree and with which we are ready to fight, that is, the sides of terrorism built up a distorted and extreme version of Islam. The Modern Club will vote against the proposed resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u175	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. High Izbo, I'm announcing a five-minute break. Thank you kindly. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 55 hours 16 min 01]] I'm reopening the session. The Foreign Affairs Committee has submitted a report on the draft resolutions of Members: - expressing solidarity with Nadia Sawchenko and other illegally imprisoned Ukrainian citizens in Russia who resisted the armed aggression of the Russian Federation in the territory of a sovereign Ukrainian state, - about the release of Nadia Sawchenko. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform and the Members' Club Modern hold posters with a picture of Nadia Sawchenko and inscription: Solidarni z Nadia Sawchenko]] The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear the opposition, and I do not hear it, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on draft resolutions: - expressing solidarity with Nadia Sawchenko and other illegally imprisoned Ukrainian citizens in Russia who resisted the armed aggression of the Russian Federation in the territory of a sovereign Ukrainian state, - about the release of Nadia Sawchenko. [[Marshal: prints No 308, 309 and 311)]] Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Małgorzata Gosievska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Nadia Sawchenko is a symbol of the struggle for a free and sovereign Ukraine. Two draft resolutions were submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm: Print Resolution 308 and Print Resolution 309. Both of these projects were sent to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading today by the Marshals of the Sejm. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, after first reading and considering these draft laws, shall submit a draft resolution to the High House, which I shall allow myself to read. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform and the Members' Club Modern hold posters with a picture of Nadia Sawchenko and inscription: Solidarni z Nadia Sawchenko]] Resolution of the Polish Parliament of 9 March 2016 on the release of Nadia Sawchenko. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses its deep concern about the fate and state of health of the deputy to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Nadia Sawchenko, leading the famine in the custody of the Russian Federation. Nadia Sawchenko, Ukrainian pilot and commando, as a volunteer, participated in an anti-terrorist operation in the east of Ukraine. She was kidnapped two years ago by Russian-supported military formations and forced to be deported by Russian forces to the Russian Federation, where she was accused on false charges. Nadia Sawchenko's trial before the Russian court is a clear example of fundamental human rights violations. Nadia Sawchenko as a delegate of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe holds international immunity, which, in accordance with Article. 40 The Statute of the Council of Europe guarantees its personal immunity and protects it from the arrest and execution of legal procedures, including judicial proceedings. The Russian Federation ratified the Council of Europe Statute in 1996 and has since been obliged to respect the guarantees resulting from the provisions of that Statute and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, together with the international community, strongly demands the immediate release by Russia of an illegally imprisoned Ukrainian citizen - Nadia Sawchenko. The war in eastern Ukraine has already consumed several thousand lives. Another victim of this war will not contribute to peace. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland also calls for the unconditional and immediate release of all illegally detained citizens of Ukraine and exported to Russia. They resisted the annexation of Crimea and the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. They were convicted of this on the basis of unauthorized charges and imprisonment. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland stresses that, in addition to the fundamental international obligations to which Russia obliges membership of the United Nations, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe, the Russian Federation has also committed itself, as a signatory of the so-called. Minsk agreements, to release and exchange all illegally held hostages. Members of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland express their deep solidarity with deputy Nadia Sawchenko. [[Long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u177	Thank you, Member. I understand that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the release of Nadia Sawchenko by acclamation. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 279-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! During the second reading, 3 amendments were tabled to the draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes. At today's meeting, the Committee on Agriculture considered the amendments tabled and all these amendments are negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u179	There you go. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft law on printing No 279. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In amendments 1 to 3, applicants propose that the granting of aid to each agricultural parcel should be granted to an entity which has made a declaration that it has a legal title for that parcel. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Wait, wait, wait. May I? Yes, you can. Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 161 Members voted against - 259, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The question is raised by Mr Artur Dunin, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we discussed in the sitting room as well as in the committee room during committee work. I will ask the question again: Why do you not respect the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, which affected the hands of the Marshal on 16 February? And the conclusion of this opinion is as follows: the Polish draft law amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and certain other laws is incompatible with EU law. What else? Mr. Marshal, the letter to your hands today after the committee meeting, which ended at noon. 14.40, you received an application for an opinion from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on a desk asking the Civic Platform Club to submit an opinion to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which should assess whether this draft amendment is compatible with EU law. That's right, Art. 47 Rules of Procedure say that the committee can direct this project, but it does not have to - yes, I know, Mr. Marshal, I know - but at the moment when the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office with a clear conclusion is affected, it seems that the committee should ask for this opinion. And therefore the question to your marshal: Could you then answer to us all here, if it makes sense to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for an opinion on this bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u181	There you go. I am going to ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Mr Dolata, just a moment, and I will answer Mr Dunin as follows: I sent the draft law to the Legislative Commission in the first place before putting it on the agenda. The Commission accepted that the project was admissible, and I therefore referred the project to the agricultural committee, which also... So I thought it was exhausting my ability. I'm based on the opinions of two committees. With a question... [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr Dunin asks this question for the second time. He asked about it at the agricultural committee meeting. He received appropriate explanations, but in order to hear these explanations for the second time, I cannot answer Mr Dunin's question, either the applicant's representative or the Minister for Agriculture may answer, so I will ask whether it is true that the Court of Justice of the European Union in its judgment of 2010 stated that Community legislation does not prohibit Member States from introducing a legal title confirming the applicant's right to use the areas covered by the payment request under national legislation. I ask you to answer that question. I think she will explain all the doubts that Mr Dunin's concerns are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u183	But, sir, is this a question you are addressing to the representative of the government or to the rapporteur? [[To the Member of the applicant.]] [[To the rapporteur.]] To the rapporteur, right? Good. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Before I give Mr Piotr Polak the floor as corrected, Mr Artur Dunin. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much, sir, but here, if you'll excuse me, I'll refer to your statement... [[Talk to the mike because you can't hear.]] ...to answer, because the Legislative Commission is dominated by Members of the Law and Justice... [[Something like that.]] ...by your colleagues. It was clear that this committee was going to vote what you wanted... [[That's democracy.]] ...not based on a factual analysis of the Sejm Analysis Office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u185	I have to check even, Mr... [[But you have to take your word for it.]] ...but I do not look at the committee in this regard, whether there are more women, messengers or Members. In fact, every club represents, proposes its representatives. Mr Piotr Polak, rapporteur of the committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am answering Mr Dolata's question at this point. [[And Dunina?]] Yes, it is true that this is how the Court of Justice reacted. With regard to the conclusions of the Sejm Analysis Office quoted by Mr Artur Dunin, this is at the beginning of this paragraph, the end of which was quoted by the Member State: European Union law allows a Member State to introduce the need for an applicant farmer to provide additional information not provided directly in European Union law, and such information is information about the legal title for the use of this land. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u187	There you go. That's all the voices. The Minister wanted to speak, too? Minister Zbigniew Babalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The subject has been known for many, many years. The so-called problem. The agro-pirate, which was transformed into a agro-businessman, was known to the Committee on Agriculture for the 6th term and for the 7th term. As Members, we have reported this problem, we have asked to be dealt with. It was the Members of the Law and Justice who said that this must be stopped. It cannot be that the land which is in the ownership of the State Treasury is the object of improper use. The invasions that took place in the Warmia-Mazury region at night, and one case even during the Holy Night holidays, only to do one agrotechnical procedure, go to the agency, present a witness and collect illegal money, we need to cut it off. It is the protection of the land which is in the resources of the agricultural property agency of the state. Mr Dunin! Perhaps what you are saying can also be read in the opinion of BAS, but I would like to tell you that for us at this moment in the protection of Polish land, the state land at this moment, it is our law, the national law, which should be the overriding law applicable in the Republic of Poland. That's it, thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u189	Mr Artur Dunin also corrected, right? I'd just like to ask you to keep your correction mode, which is to correct your not-so-understood statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u190	All right, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You must have misunderstood me. The amendment was presented because today you are imposing additional burdens on farmers, making them look for documents, etc., where this agency has all these documents. That's first of all. Secondly, we implement, not only ensure that the Treasury does not lose, but that this law is still in line with EU law. Those amendments you rejected, that's what they were going for. The point was that every farmer on the statement would show whether he had the right to this land, and that's all. Minister, from here on out, I am sorry that most of the Sejm impose a greater burden on farmers because you treat everyone like thieves, and you don't. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u191	Minister Babalski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u192	Mr President, I will not mention the name so as not to give you any reason to make another statement with this accusation that someone is a thief. I think you're overreacting. [[But don't lecture, just answer.]] I would like to remind you and you that in 2014. The Supreme Board of Control... [[Oh, no, all-knowing...]] ...her boss, your representative, recommended by the Civic Platform, signed a protocol which ordered in 2014 the regulation of this crime that occurred on the ground, I repeat, on the land of the state. That's it, sir. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u193	We've cleared it up. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 279, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 304 Members voted against - 4 and 124 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 20 hours 16 min 24]] I'm reopening the session. We would like to return to the discussion of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the European Union's Committee on European Union Affairs on draft resolutions on: - immigration policy of the Polish state within the European Union, - immigration policy of Poland. We've finished our speeches on behalf of the clubs. Let's get to the questions. I would ask you to ask Mr Mark Grunkle, the Civic Platform. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I would ask the uninterested to leave the room.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I actually have a question at this point more about the government representative than about the applicants. Namely, I wanted to ask what the consequences of adopting this type of resolution would be. In a word, will Prime Minister Beata Szydło, after adopting such a resolution, withdraw from the September provisions on relocation of refugees? Not the immigrants mentioned here, just the refugees. And if he withdraws, then what will be the Polish proposals, especially in the context of the European Union-Turkey Summit? And what measures does the government intend to take in the name of responsibility, solidarity, so as not to be part of the problem, and precisely the group that solves the problems of refugees? I also wanted to ask whether the national criteria, especially those concerning religious minorities mentioned in the draft resolution, are in line with the Geneva Convention signed by Poland on the legal status of refugees. I would also like to ask what funds we will allocate to the additional EUR 3 billion that Turkey is to receive, in addition to those modest ones announced for humanitarian aid to the Syrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u195	Thank you. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to know if there's going to be a refugee center in Tarnów, because from what the media tells me, from what I hear on the air, it can happen. And we have spent the last week at the referendum signing collection, Mr Trzaskowski, for a referendum, Mr Stasiński. You used a very hurtful phrase here, telling us that this is a racist approach. The referendum aims to ensure that citizens say whether we want to welcome immigrants, refugees into our country. It's not a call, it's a speech of hatred, it's just so that citizens can speak so they can decide. I'd like to tell you that maybe you should go out on the street for once, meet with people, voters, go up to them and ask them, talk to them -- talk about who the immigrant is, who the refugee is. A real discussion on the street can only lead to this. And I'm asking you this. Mr Trzaskowski, day-to-day. pl - please download the list, approach people, talk and ask what citizens think. Because it is not the High House to decide who we take into our home, it is the citizens and all Poles. And let them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At each summit, it responds to a very dynamic situation and responds to it in a subsequent way, i.e. as a result of the threat, ways of solving the problem are found. At the last summit, which was devoted to the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, there was a significant increase in the resources that will be used to help deal with the whole refugee situation, up to EUR 6 billion by 2018. Hence the question: for 2016 the Polish Government allocated EUR 4.5 million, is it expected to increase this amount already in 2016 due to such a far-reaching declaration by the countries of the European Union? Although it will grow by 2018, there may be a risk or search for these funds in various areas of the European Union budget. Are we going to effectively protect ourselves from the fact that they do not reach, for example. for measures relating to the EU's 2014-2020 perspective, i.e. will we be effective in ensuring that this absorption is such that it does not jeopardise the redirection of these European funds? But also what's happening right now. As a result of this dynamic situation, new directions of metastasis are emerging. We hear that there may be a hit on the Polish border from Ukraine. Will our government therefore also secure the means for this? All these questions are related to a procedated resolution [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the extent that Poland will implement certain measures. Does the Sejm accept that? If he accepts, he must have knowledge: how, where and where. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u199	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u200	Mr. Marshal, before I begin my short speech, can you pay attention because it distracts me?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u201	Yeah, I already asked the government. I'm asking the ministers to continue their talks outside the room, okay? [[We're not interrupting your work.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u202	I'll wait patiently until you two have a talk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u203	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are facing a phenomenon that Europe has never experienced. Every day there are refugees and refugees on the Old Continent. We must remember that there are, of course, a lot of economic immigrants among immigrants, young, strong men who, perhaps with our help, could be more useful in their own country and those in need of help. However, among those forced to migrate there are those who especially need our help. Whoever has children knows that in the face of the danger of life and safety of children, everyone in his right mind will take the highest risk to protect his offspring, even at the price of a murderous march through Europe. But just accepting doesn't solve the problem. We have to bring these people into our reality, give them a job, send them to schools, give them a decent life. Am I disturbing you, Mr applicant, because you are very pleased? I'd rather you hear it. [[Voice from the room: I hear everything.]] Moreover, we can offer our help to Turkey, because that's where the Syrians escape first. Unfortunately, we still do not have a reception mechanism for refugees, which means that we are the subject and not the subject of the Union's policy on this matter. We will not solve this problem of the European Union, namely ours, with silence or opposition. Therefore, I ask you to answer the following questions. Which Ministry and services can prepare the refugee verification programme and what factors will be used to carry out the verification? What will happen to refugees who, despite relocation, decide to continue their journey to countries such as Germany or Sweden? What assimilation program does the Polish government assume to implement? In the process of assimilation to refugees, were basic social facilities guaranteed: accommodation, learning Polish language, helping to find a job? Finally: What amount will be allocated to aid refugees in the state budget? And one more thing, maybe against those who [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're talking about it, and they weren't there. We were in Podkarpacie recently, we were at the borders, we were talking to the provincial authorities, with the PiS voivode who said there was no problem. Kukiz's colleagues want to put up a wall.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u205	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u206	I'd advise you to think about it because we have...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u207	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u208	...very difficult experience with the wall. There's no problem. The problem is 30 emigrants. [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u209	Mr President, you are welcome to leave the platform. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two comments to our resolution. In the proposed draft of this short resolution, words of a different meaning are quite carefree. The project concerns, according to the applicants, the immigration policy of Poland, and further refers to refugee policy. Is mixing these concepts conscious? As previously suggested by a member of the Kukiz group, probably conscious. It is very interesting to note in the proposal that the Sejm should call on the government to apply particularly precisely the assumptions adopted, suggesting that the government is not acting in accordance with the will of the Sejm majority. I would ask applicants to specify this issue. Finally, the key issue, as already mentioned by my previous speaker. I'd like to finish this topic. Last week we were in Podkarpacie, we saw the Vice-Veteran. We have talked mainly about refugees, whether the guards are prepared, whether the services are prepared, whether the services directly subordinate to the Prime Minister are prepared to carry out the tasks arising from the duties currently imposed on them. Therefore, I have a question for applicants who request the adoption of this draft resolution, whether they have consulted on the degree of preparation of the Border Guard and whether perhaps the written opinion you have requested is different from the assurances that we have received orally, that this problem does not exist, that the services are prepared, that the guards are prepared in every respect for this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u211	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras from the Civic Platform has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u212	I also take it as a round of applause for me, thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to quote a passage from the proposed resolution: The Polish Sejm negatively evaluates the decision of the Council of the European Union of 22 September on relocation of 120 thousand. refugees and vote in the Council of the European Union by the then government of the Republic of Poland against the position of the other states of the Visegrad Group and Romania. Abstracting from the opinion of some of the Visegrad Group countries, not only as regards immigrants, but generally as regards the integrity of the European Union, I would like to say that the proposal for such a provision in the draft resolution of the Sejm is, in my opinion, shameful, given the role and importance of the European Union in guaranteeing the security of Poland. But Warsaw, contrary to what you would like, is a member of the European Union. Warsaw is home to one of the European institutions - Frontex. I would like to ask: Why is there no mention of the role of this institution in the resolution on immigration that the Polish Sejm is taking up? Why is there no mention of an initiative on a common European border service and the creation of a rapid response corps to protect European borders? Why isn't there anything about Schengen? Isn't this area for applicants and the threat of its existence exactly the kind of policy that you are proposing, a risk to Poland? Are you able to guarantee us that you will bear all the consequences of the possible restriction, the suspension of the Schengen area? Are you aware of the political consequences for Poland of the liquidation or suspension of the Schengen area? Is the country outside of such cheap populism? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you really have any idea of the role that Poland should play in this immigration crisis in the common European Union? Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u213	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say that these resolutions are the essence and unfortunately such a very good summary of the actions of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Polish Foreign Policy. These resolutions are proof that Polish foreign policy is based only on foot tucking, not presenting a vision. Poland's foreign policy today is based on swinging the sash, speaking without answering the important questions and important challenges facing Europe and the European Union today. In view of this bad policy with some hope, however, I would like to ask the applicants what their idea is to solve the refugee problem in the European Union, if they do not agree to strengthen the service that would protect the borders of the European Union, if they do not agree to the relocation of refugees, what is their idea at all to solve this problem, because today it is a problem for the whole European Union, and I will remind you that fortunately Poland, although in this case It is a big challenge, it is a member of the European Union. Therefore, my question is: What is your idea of solving this problem? Waving the saber, I'll give you a hint, there's no answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u215	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u216	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I have a few questions, but the first two will be about one subject. Well, the Members of the applicants and the authors of this resolution originally prepared on the part of... Or perhaps it would be the question to the Member of the applicant: Do you know whether you recognise this legal provision, to be precise, if one or more Member States find themselves in an emergency situation characterised by a sudden influx of third-country nationals, the Council, on a proposal from the Commission, may adopt provisional measures in favour of the Member State or Member States concerned. The Council shall act after consulting the European Parliament? Well, I would like to answer that question. It's a mouth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal Second question: Does the applicant remember who negotiated and accepted the Treaty of Lisbon? In this connection, the third question: Why talk about the decision imposed on Poland, the dictatorship of the European Commission or other large countries of the European Union, since this procedure was adopted in the manner to which Poland, changing and accepting the new principles of asylum, refugee policy, agreed? And of this possibility, of course, the Commission has, at the request of the countries which have become the influx of this increased wave of refugees - Greece and Italy in particular, and has decided after the opinion of the European Parliament. Finally, another question concerning the text of the resolution itself: Why, what is the point of putting in the first paragraph that questions the decisions taken by the government and parliament of the previous term of office? I would just like to remind you that a special debate on this issue took place in this House on 11 September or 16 September. The Sejm was informed by the government of the position he was going to take, it was [[♪ The bell ♪]] by previous term accepted. What is the point of questioning earlier decisions by later Parliaments? In this way, we question the seriousness of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u217	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the authors of this resolution whether they know what is the most powerful state in the world, the greatest economic power, military power, political power. It is a country that accepts people of different religions, of different ethnic backgrounds, and is able to make, it has such a system that they can work together and create this enormous power. The United States boasts of our strength in diversity. And do you know what the most dynamically developing city in Europe is? This is London, where 1/3 of the population was not born in Britain. It is precisely in this diversity that there is strength and we can and should prepare ourselves for how to welcome immigrants, how to ensure their integration so that they do not create ghettos, how to make them enrich Poland so that they can create prosperity here. Germany has developed among others. because they once received Gastarbeiters, many millions of them, including Muslims, and they created German power. This is what he told us here at the conference on refugees, the Deputy Minister of the German Government, who is currently dealing with refugees. Instead of taking an example from this, instead of learning from other people's mistakes and how best to prepare Poland also for a wave of immigration, which is not a one-off but something permanent, and how best to use this potential of people who can come to us, we create disgraceful resolutions, separate ourselves from it, separate ourselves from European solidarity against Polish tradition, contrary to moral principles, contrary to our long-term interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u219	Thank you. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, the United States is an open state and is building a wall at the border with Mexico, and to Polish citizens they license visa policy. This is an opening, Mr Święcicki. [[It's your ally who wants to build.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The weakness of the foreign policy of the former Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz became a reason for preparing the draft resolution of the Sejm, print no 230. I stress the weakness of Ewa Kopacz's foreign policy... [[There's nothing more shameful than your resolution.]] ...became the cause that we need to fix what you've ruined, you've underestimated. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Schengen Agreement in its present state resembles a crook, a sieve, as you prefer from the opposition, choose what suits you best. The adoption of the draft resolution in print No 230 will be a strong tool for the government of Beata Szydło, because the current immigration policy pursued by the European Union has nothing to do with the article. 79 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I have three questions for the rapporteur. First: Was the failure of the Schengen Agreement taken into account when preparing the draft resolution? That's the first question. Two: Has the project studied what we have been seeing in Germany, France and other countries in the western part of Europe for a long time? Third: Is it true that former Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz agreed to accept 160 000 during the talks and negotiations without any preconditions. immigrants? Thank you very much. [[What kind of bullshit do you think you're talking about? Where did you get this?]] [[Voice from the hall: A little culture.]] [[Voice from the room: But don't lie.]] [[Don't lie to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u221	Thank you. [[Crap, a little culture. You fucking asshole.]] Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to the rapporteur: Why draft resolution that doesn't change anything, i.e. a draft resolution, the reason of which is only one case, that we have passed a different resolution, in our club worked out? And this resolution boils down to one simple formulation: a mandate which the Polish Parliament is to give the government to carry out a political offensive in the European Union and to amend the decision of September 2015, yes, this unfortunate decision to relocate immigrants, refugees in our country, in other countries of the European Union, against which there was such resistance in the Visegrad Group. Why such a resolution? Because, of course, it is not true what the Platform and Modern Members say here, and what the Law and Justice are trying to stand on. It is not true that multiculturalism is causing the United States or Western Europe to develop, because this multiculturalism, of course, is now leading to a huge crisis in Western countries and Donald Trump's successes are not accidental, it is precisely because the United States ends up as a civilization state in such a cultural arrangement because there is a flood of multiculturalism. That is why we call on the Law and Justice, and for this we have tabled an amendment to add to this fundamentally valid resolution of yours, which is, however, I would say, cut out of this fundamental point, which is to include the government's call not to implement the fatal decision, as you stress, of September last year and that the government [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Republic of Poland carried out a political offensive to really get out of this crisis, which can only be the protection of Europe's borders against the invasion of immigrants. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u223	Thank you very much. The formal proposal was made by Mrs Joanna Mucha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Formal conclusion. I would like to ask your marshal to call to order Mr Mosiński, who was just coming down from the Seymary, insulting a Member and a Messenger, a Member of Pomask and Mr Nitras, addressing them as a douchebag. Mr Mosiński has just escaped because he probably didn't want to answer for his words, but I would very much ask that Mr Marshal pay attention to such situations and pay attention to the absolutely non-plausible way of conducting discussions between us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u225	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr. Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I can only say that it is a futile task to reprimand Mr Mosiński, because this is not the first performance by Mr Mosiński, so we can get used to it. I wonder what situation Poland is in, because as I listen sometimes to the speeches of representatives of the PiS and Kukiz Club15, I have the impression that we are now surrounded by a million refugees, on each border of 250 thousand, who are just waiting to enter, impersonate Poland and I will not tell what to do with Polish society. I think calling in numbers like 160,000. refugees who were supposed to go to Poland, when we all know that at the moment stood for 7 thousand, is some complete absurdity, because we are trying to scare Polish society that 7 thousand will come to us. people, and everyone is trying to lead to a situation, however, when some verification of these people will be, in order to actually avoid the fact that people who have something to do with terrorism will be sent to Poland. Therefore, this is a logical action. On the other hand, I cannot understand one thing - why the people who prepared this resolution did not consider the consequences of the adoption of 80,000 for Poland in 2000. refugees from Chechnya, whether it really was such a tragedy for Poland, whether in Poland the number of followers of Islam increased, or in Poland women began to cover their faces. There's basics, there's research methods to make sure that things like this didn't happen. I would also like to point out that to accept 80,000. refugees, you didn't have to do a referendum. It is simply the kindness and willingness to help those in need that is the natural instinct of the Polish society, and I see no reason why we would have [[♪ The bell ♪]] Consider the adoption of 7,000. refugees through a referendum. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u227	Thank you. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna ask you a question for a change. We celebrate, we debate two draft resolutions. I have a question for the rapporteur because at first reading you spoke about some kind of flaws in the project of the Kukiz club15. I have a question: What faults are these, and what did you mean then? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u229	Thank you. Mr Marcin Horała, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the introduction to my question, I would like to thank the applicants, especially for the first paragraph of this draft resolution, in which the position taken is clear and underlined in line with the Polish reason for the position which was missing in September this year, when the previous government made this fatal decision, not only breaking the solidarity of the Central European countries, but simply contrary to our Polish reason. How do you justify that? Very simple. This is one of the Members of the Civic Platform - unfortunately he has already left - he rightly said that we should learn from the mistakes of other countries. The countries of Western Europe have made huge mistakes in immigration policy, unintelligently letting foreign cultural immigrants into their territory in large numbers, and there are these problems that we are all aware of - burning cars in the suburbs of Paris, to put it graphically. He spoke about the excellent development of London as a multicultural city. It is also important to remember that in London, a British soldier has become a machete without his head, and not by the native British. This is the kind of problems we do not need in Poland, which we should not take on. The decision of the previous government has put us at a disadvantage with certain facts that have been done, and now we need to look for a good way out of this bad situation. It seems to me that, as proposed in the resolution, one can say, outline, key to immigration policy... Here I would like to ask for an answer and confirmation: Can I sum up that it consists of three elements, i.e. serious behaviour in the international arena, i.e. not to call into question the erroneous, but the Polish government's commitments so directly, while interpreting them towards the Polish cause of the state and such implementation, so that the acceptance of this small group of refugees, firstly, would not be any precedent for any permanent mechanism of pushing further groups into us, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and secondly, it was carried out in a manner consistent with our immigration policy and putting the safety of Poland and Poles first? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u231	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modernzna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The refugee problem will certainly not be dealt with through this resolution that you have proposed, which I think is scandalous. It is worth remembering that today this is a global problem and with this global problem here in the Polish Sejm, we will not solve it and we will not solve it. I would like to say that it is not important where refugees come from, but it is important that they have nowhere to go. We must all answer this question today - those who have good will in communicating with other people who have lost their home overnight who protect their lives, their children's lives, and the lives of those closest to them. And there's one more thing that's important. Well, in 2050, we're gonna be okay on our globe. 1 billion refugees. There's about 20 million of them right now. How is this resolution supposed to lead us today to have a clear, open and true look deep into our eyes, thinking that we will solve this problem? Answer me that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u233	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem with refugees lies primarily in two aspects. The first aspect is related to demographic imbalances. Cultural differences are also important, but demographic imbalances, i.e. negative demographics in the countries of Europe, especially in us, but also in the countries of Western and Central Europe, as well as excessive demography, excessive population growth in the countries of the Middle East, in the countries of Asia, Africa, are causing natural movement of the population. Just as the atmospheric air flows from a place where the pressure is higher, to a place where the pressure is lower, the same here is the movement of the population to places where there are people missing, from places where there is an excess of people. And the second aspect, apart from demographic, is the social aspect. The flow occurs from places where there is a small social, to places where there is a large social. If we combine two phenomena: the demographic aspect and the social aspect, then we draw ourselves a map of the flow of the so-called. refugees. And it has nothing to do with whether it has little to do with cultural change, with multiculti policy. There is nothing to bid on here about where multiculti policy passed the exam, where it failed the exam, because you can give an example for all possible combinations of these elements. In my opinion - I am now going to the question - we simply need to pay attention to social policy and demographic policy. Doesn't the government think that the best solution would be to promote its own demographic policies and reduce the unnecessary social situation that tempts migrants, which we don't necessarily want to do, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you want them to be here? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u235	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jakub Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to answer those few questions that were addressed to the government. Most of these questions were, of course, addressed to applicants, so that only some of them concern the powers of the government. The first question was whether the Prime Minister would withdraw as a result of a resolution from previous relocation activities and what the measures in Poland would be. The answer is: we do not yet know the content of this resolution, so that it is difficult to prejudice anything here. As regards Mr Kaczmark's question about the centre in Tarnów, the answer is: there are no such plans. With regard to financial issues, because a few questions related to the results of the last Monday European Union-Turkey Summit and these declarations on the increase of the amount allocated to date or not allocated, only the promised amount of EUR 3 billion to EUR 6 billion, there have not yet been any decisions on this matter. The issue is to be clarified in the coming days. It can be presumed that, above all, the European Commission will present here solutions for acceptance by the Member States. On the other hand, it is necessary to fully share the concern that this allocation of funds should not be at the expense of cohesion policy, i.e. it does not mean, inter alia, to our country. the reduction of European funding for other purposes. In this case, the government will certainly show activity. It's a matter of securing the eastern border. Here, too, there were two questions about it. In our opinion, in our view, this limit is properly protected. I must tell you that, indeed, the opinions that are expressed as being one of the best or best protected European borders are true. The level of saturation of equipment and all procedural and organisational solutions in their entirety entitles me to such a statement. Of course, there is no guarantee that there will be no accumulation of phenomena here, which may require extraordinary action. I also wanted to tell you that the plan is being prepared in this respect and the government will be ready to face up to it. One such action, which will be undertaken, is the restoration of the Carpathian Border Guard Division, which was liquidated by the previous government. We consider this decision to be highly inappropriate and taken in the face of an increasing migratory crisis. So that this will be done. I do now. As regards the issue of quotas for relocation and assimilation programmes, at this point in the legislative process, there is a regulation of the Council of Ministers on the adoption of the first batch of relocated persons for this year. It has not yet been accepted. Therefore, the effective relocation process has not been initiated. Here we are talking about the amount of PLN 10 million. Let me remind you that this amount is equal, almost equal to the amount of European funding that we can obtain as a result of this relocation. The very important question of Mr Furga is the question of verification of refugees and which services will be involved. This is indeed a problem that all the Member States of the European Union see because the situation, as you know, in hotspots is far from the desired one. I mean, it doesn't make it possible at this point to verify the identity of people, which was a condition for this relocation. In view of the above, the Prime Minister's order on the security of relocation has been issued and a team has been set up with representatives of both the ministries involved in ensuring security in the country as well as the services. This team will discuss and resolve this on all issues relating to the proper conduct of this process. I would still like to address the question of how many people are to come - here there were different numbers - under this relocation and resettlement programme. So it's about the consequences of last year's decisions. So, ladies and gentlemen, so far this amount is 7,000. 6100 people in relocation, i.e. Greece and Italy, and 900 people in resettlement. This applies to third countries, i.e. where refugees first descend from conflict territories. Of course, Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey are at stake. Here's the number 900. These are decisions that already apply to us at this point, with a deadline of validity for 2 years from the time of this decision. But also - and I would like to emphasise very strongly - the Blanco decisions taken last year assume the adoption of more than 4 000 more. refugees and here the European Commission has a decisive vote which can allocate the remaining amount to it between the Member States. These obligations, as I say, are in Blanco, but these are obligations of equal legal power as those I mentioned earlier, and they are over 4,000. [[Where's 160?]] So summa summarum is over 11,000. persons. And these are the decisions that... [[Isn't it 160?]] Sorry, 160 weren't my words, sir, so that... [[That's not true. Could you confirm if this is true?]] Dear Member, I am responding to these figures of the government that we have. [[But that was a question. Or 160,000? Is the government...]] No, 160,000. Of course... [[That's not true?]] ...that's not the amount that applies to us. [[Thank you.]] That's what I'm saying. Thank you. These seem to be all the questions I have here, so thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u237	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u238	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I tried to write down questions, although they could be divided into two main categories. That is, the first part of the Members asked why we wanted to welcome immigrants in the resolution, and the second part asked why we did not want and we opposed the admission of immigrants. I have the impression that reality is a little more complicated, and this is also included in the resolution. The resolution concerns immigration policy, not refugee policy. This is not indicated in the title of the resolution for a simple reason - refugee policy is at the moment part of the country's immigration policy as a wider whole. Today, these issues are clearly intertwined. It is also a weakness and weakness in the conduct of refugee policy at all, that the European Union, not only Poland, is very difficult to distinguish between the reception of war refugees, who are of course accepted on completely different rights than economic immigrants. The categories of these two groups and their distinction are a great problem for the European Union. Today, refugee policy is part of immigration policy. The question was, why this resolution, since there is no problem, as confirmed by the visit of some of the Members in Podkarpacie. Today, it must be made clear, in Poland we are not dealing with the problem of immigrants or refugees, but responsible politicians look to the future, they can anticipate certain phenomena, they can also anticipate the consequences of certain decisions and respond to them in good time. And that is the proof of this resolution. We believe that the September 22 decision can only bring us trouble, and if further decisions were made on this matter, it would almost certainly cause us trouble. Therefore, in this resolution we also explicitly refer to these future negative events. The question was why there was no comment in the resolution, no reference to the issue of the functioning of Frontex in Warsaw, why there was no reference to the issue of the weakness or strength of the Schengen area, why there was no reference to the Schengen issue at all. Ladies and gentlemen, Members have the right to make amendments to the content of the resolution. Members of the Kukiz Club have exercised this right15. If you think there is something missing in this resolution, please make amendments. [[Sense. The point is missing.]] We've prepared it the way we can. Let Mr Nitras not be so eloquent, but let him make an amendment if he has any comments. [[My amendment would have to be about throwing out the whole thing. I'd be happy to answer you from the podium.]] Screaming from the Chamber - I think the Member is some term of office - is not an amendment. Therefore, if there is a desire to make comments, I ask for an amendment, and then we will be happy to refer to it as well. As an applicant, I'll refer to it as well. There was a question by Mr Trzaskowski. He's not in the O.R. What's the idea... That in this resolution you can't see the idea of the refugee problem. Ladies and gentlemen, international policy runs the government of the Republic of Poland, not the Sejm. Therefore, it is the government which sets out directions, ideas in international policy, and the Sejm in this resolution at the most indicates a framework within which this international policy should move, a framework which, according to the Sejm, this policy should not exceed. This is the task we carry out in the resolution of the Sejm. Mr Protasiewicz asked why we are talking about the dictatorship, the amounts imposed, there is nothing like that, it is an agreement. That's the question. not to us, but to the Kukiz club15, which actually included in its draft resolution the wording on the amounts imposed by the European Commission. It's not a precise formulation, and I'm not gonna defend it. We in our draft resolution about the dictatorship or the imposed amounts are not talking about. In writing, when preparing the resolution, did we consider the weaknesses of the Schengen Agreement, or did we take into account the events of a criminal nature in which immigrants also participated in France or Germany? Of course. There's no way to abstract from what's going on. That is exactly what it is, I think, the wisdom of the High House to take account of the dynamics of certain events, in this case the dynamics of events related to the challenge of sudden influx of refugees and immigrants into Europe. I do not want to explain Mr Mosiński in any way, but I felt that he was asking for a decision of the Council of the European Union concerning 160,000. refugees in general, in relation to the whole of Europe. In this sense, the Polish Government agreed to this decision, but it is clear that the Polish Government will implement it in the amount of less than 7 thousand. the persons to be admitted to Poland. 160,000. It's a relocation across Europe. Mr Schreiber's question was about the shortcomings of the Kukiz project15. The problem of this project was just some vague wording. This was the amount imposed by the European Commission, which is not true, because it is to our regret that the decision of the Council of the European Union, which most Member States have taken, including unfortunately Poland, is the decision of the Council of the European Union. There was such an expression that we should refuse to implement it, but without a legal comment on what legal basis we would not have implemented this decision. I am a european by education, I have specialized in the creation and enforcement of EU law and I attach some importance to the fact that, by presenting certain expectations, we can also point out the paths that we can reach to meet this expectation, the legal path. Mr Horal has done me some good, because perhaps even in a more skillful way than I did before in his speech, and certainly more briefly, he took the intentions of the applicants. That is exactly what this is all about: firstly, to make it clear that today's decision would be different, because we are negative for the decision of the government of 22 September, but it has come to pass, it is part of the decision of the Council of the European Union and it will be done in this sense; secondly, to express a clear objection to the mechanism of any allocation for the future; finally, thirdly, to point out that the criteria of refugee policy in the hands of the Polish State, that is the thing for us very important and it will be used in a special way just to implement the Polish right state. I would add to that the fourth element, which should also not be forgotten - humanitarian aid in conflict countries and neighbouring countries. And now maybe a general commentary on all these questions, because a lot of emotional rhetoric has emerged. I'm a little surprised by this, because it seemed to me that I didn't feel as if I were going to scare anybody with the refugee problem, as if this problem was to be used for political purposes. The word "honest" appeared, that is a strong word, in relation to the first point, of the first element of the resolution. It seems to me that the government has the right and the Sejm also has the right to a negative assessment of the actions of the previous Sejm or the government. It's an expression of such an assessment. We want to make it clear that international policy is changing its direction. On the other hand, I do not know whether you are questioning - probably not - the fact that any allocation mechanism for the future is not acceptable by Poland. That, I believe, is your support. Humanitarian aid, too, I believe, you're supporting. It is not disputed that national refugee policy criteria should be applied. So I understand that you have fundamental doubts about this first point. Here we do not agree: you have pursued such a policy, we are pursuing another one. Nothing scared here, nothing would like to say so, using some emotion, and I would very much like to ask you to refer specifically to these terms. I hope that all the questions that were asked, at least I tried to answer them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u239	Mr Sławomir Nitras as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u240	Thank you, Marshal. Mr President, no unnecessary emotions. I think you misunderstood what I said. I did not say that you did not mention Schengen, so that I would add it, only to make it clear to you and to other people who support this resolution that building such a position that Poland stands in such a position that it is interested in only one isolated problem, but forgets all European issues, does not participate in the European debate about an important problem for Europe... We also sometimes have problems that may seem marginal from the perspective of Lisbon or from the perspective of London, but we know that they are important not only for Poland, but also for the European Union as a whole, even in terms of energy security. Putting things like this, when you forget about the whole context, causes you to become, first, a marginal country, second, a country not taken seriously by our partners. The implications of this policy are already there today, because you are talking about migration and the real... I agree with you that the European Union's response is incomplete, there is no clear policy. The question is whether the Polish government, whether we as the Sejm feel ourselves in a community of troubles or only in a community of benefits. Are we contributing to this policy, or are we not contributing? For now, the result of this isolationist policy, which Poland cannot afford, is that the Schengen area mentioned by me is shattering in posts. And it is Poland, the Polish economy, Polish citizens, the Polish state, that will bear the consequences. Therefore, the amendment to this text does not add much, because this text, here you are right... For three terms I sat, for a third term I sat in the Sejm, for five years I sat in the European Parliament and, as you say, the House has the right to judge the previous government, I have the right to evaluate this project, this one, I used a strong word, a shameful project. I don't recall a document, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which would show our partners that we have them, for apology, in the nose, and which shows that European problems are not Polish problems, because it is simply not true and it is unwise. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u241	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, amendments were tabled to the draft resolution tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the European Union Commission in order to consider the amendments tabled. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 19 hrs. 17 min 28]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, drawn up in Beijing on 29 June 2015 (prints No 246 and 269). I ask Mr Luke Schreiber to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased on behalf of the Joint Commission: Foreign Affairs and Public Finances to present a report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, drawn up in Beijing on 29 June 2015. The Agreement signed 57 countries by 31 December 2015 and 18 countries ratified. After first reading and after considering this project on 24 February, the committees request that the draft law be adopted without amendment at the joint meeting of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u243	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting my position on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice against the bill. I will start by saying that the idea of the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank is linked to the development of the Chinese initiative to revitalise trade routes on the China-Europe line. This new silk trail is a clear reference to China's great season. This is a historical and cultural appeal, which must indicate that China intends to establish for this period. Poland was then on the outskirts of the ancient world. Today we can play a key role in this or one of the strategic roles. In fact, this idea, the whole idea, is based on a stimulus to infrastructure investments in Asia and the Pacific. The Asian Development Bank estimates that as much as $8 trillion will be invested in infrastructure in Asia by 2020. In fact, one of the key things for us is the freight train and the three mains to connect Eurasia. So we're talking about a big civilization project. But this project is already going on today. Between 2011 and 2014, three Chinese cities, Chengdu, Chongqing and Suzhou, have already started working on the connection and fixed rail lines to Europe. This is also crucial for Central and Eastern Europe. For Poland there are really three basic objectives, three basic dimensions of the establishment of the bank. The first has economic, second - political and third - socio-economic consequences. The economic impact can be briefly said: Poland subscribes to a capital of $830 million, a real deposit of 166 400 thousand. USD, which is 20% , payable in five equal instalments, the remainder shall constitute a security. The responsibility of the Member States shall be based on the amount of their shares. The second factor is a political factor. The project includes 57 countries among the founding countries. There are all the major countries of the European Union: Germany, France, Spain, Italy and the United Kingdom. Russia also joined the founding countries. Poland's position as a leader in Central and Eastern Europe in relations with the Chinese side has been maintained. We are the only country in Central and Eastern Europe, which is among the founding Member States. The doubts to be raised concern the position of the United States, which is negative. In fact, the beginnings of this should be looked for in the upheaval of the Bretton Woods system and the fall of the Lehman Brothers, in the crisis in the United States at the turn of 2008 and 2009. China's initiative is undoubtedly regarded as offensive, considered to challenge the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, but the West was invited, and America's allies, including Australia, South Korea, Israel and the United Kingdom, also joined the AIIB. Finally, the most important issue from the point of view of Poland - socio-economic consequences. We have a record trade deficit with China today. By 2020, sales of goods from Poland to China are expected to increase by an average of 11%. This accession to the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank can undoubtedly only accelerate this process. Poland's accession to AIIB was also included in the plan of Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki and was underlined in the Capital for Development. For Poland it is a great opportunity, both infrastructure opportunities and opportunities to increase exports, to expand Polish companies, to become a bridge between the East and the West, and thus to increase the role in transit, to find its niche, and finally to increase the political role. The corridors will be running two, [[♪ The bell ♪]] one western, through Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus, the other northern, with the exception of Kazakhstan - both go through Poland to the countries of Western Europe. It can therefore be said that the sea route prefers Balkan countries, here Greece is a strategic country, and the land route is Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u245	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u246	In conclusion, I would like to say that still, of course, the AIIB remains a great question mark...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u247	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u248	Even the Chinese know that. This is supposed to be the main impulse - another one - development for China, and we all know that too. But I would like to highlight two things. It's not definitely an initiative...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u249	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u250	I'm almost done. This is not an initiative: with China against Americans, how often can we read, but we can finally use our geographical location, which previously so often in history has been for us... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u251	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to present our position on the Act on the ratification of the Agreement on the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, drawn up in Beijing on 29 June 2015, which is in print No 246. Ladies and gentlemen! I may not repeat all the information that Mr Schreiber has just presented. Here there are no differences between us in the assessment of this initiative or in the assessment of the importance of this initiative for Poland, so it seems to me that this is not necessary. On the other hand, I would like to stress that this law and the work on ratification of this law are the continuation of the actions that the Civic Platform government has undertaken. The letter of intent was signed for the previous team and it is good that these good initiatives are continued, and I am very pleased with that. Cooperation between Poland and China is developing well. In 2012, we signed a strategic partnership with the People's Republic of China. A meeting of an intergovernmental committee chaired by the Foreign Minister also took place last year. These initiatives, these economic ties, these joint conferences or joint economic ventures are increasing. And that is what we need, and of course, the use of our place here, as you have just said, is extremely important on the map of Europe. Of course, it is not possible, speaking of this law and of this ratification, to abstract itself from the fact that the international situation is changing quite dynamically, that the growth momentum of China and South-East Asia is falling. This is why we can, unfortunately, bring less hope to this initiative than ever before. In any case, because of the shape of this initiative, because of the level of our financial commitment, it is an initiative worth getting involved in. In a world of very turbulent change, every initiative of this kind is valuable, every initiative of this kind is good, because cooperation is better than competition, and integration is better than disintegration processes, so that we are taking part in this initiative is of course as valuable as possible. The initiative is interesting, worth the interest, worth the participation. It generates capital that Asia needs very much. Asia has obviously not had such an instrument so far. Of course, this bank is mainly focused on developing South-East Asia, but also all the countries participating in this initiative can benefit from it, which shows precisely that the world does not have to be one great rivalry, but it can only be a cooperation on which everyone benefits from this cooperation. There are, of course, a few questions that are extremely important. First of all, the question is, at what stage is the work of the Polish government on establishing rules concerning the participation of Poland in the Board of Directors. Without participation in the Board of Directors, we will have no influence on the strategy of this bank, no influence on the choice of investments, no influence on the policy pursued. So our task today is to make the most of this opportunity that this initiative is creating. Ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Platform will of course vote in favour of ratification and in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u253	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the ratification of Poland's membership in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank is concerned, there are no miracles to be expected, because we are not prepared for this yet. Perhaps the situation will be such that Poland will want to become, paradoxically, second Belarus, because it is in Belarus, 25 km from Minsk, as you know, that there is an industrial and logistics zone in the area of 80 km2, a Chinese industrial and logistics zone, which is based on a model of Chinese-Singapore cooperation, so-called. Suzhou. The Great Stone Park is already adjacent to the Minsk airport and the M1 motorway which connects Moscow with Berlin. And there is a fundamental element of the European new silk trail. The Chinese don't build factories there, they don't build warehouses there, they don't build airports. The Belarusian highways have already been built. The new Silk Road is a transmission of Chinese investments and Chinese expansion to Europe. The Chinese dream of building a stable transmission belt of their goods and their investments to Europe. They're dreaming about it. And if they can't build it through the sea, they'll try to build it across the land. We have a chance, among others. Because of this bank, it has to be the end of this Chinese expansion, because it has to end somewhere in Europe, it has to be such an end, unloading, such a unloading port, such a unloading hub. And we have a chance to become such a hub because of geopolitical and geographical location, but we have to be prepared. It is not enough to sign up for a Polish-Chinese bank and it is not enough to have hope that the Chinese will build everything here. You should have your vision, your strategy for the development of this money, you should have a concept of using it, and unfortunately we do not have such a concept of using this bank. Ladies and gentlemen, our cooperation with China has so far been associated with a company called COVEC, which built motorways in Poland and was cut into the trunk by the competition in completely explained circumstances. That's how co-operation with China is associated. Ladies and gentlemen, Bretton Woods, agreement, this dollar-centric world is slowly ending. The dollar is slowly no longer a world currency, and the US economy is slowly no longer a dominant economy. At the moment, we do not know whether the Chinese economy will sink into a crisis or deal with it, but we must admit that the second world economy, the Chinese economy, is growing. She has a specific goal, as I said earlier: to find a beachfront and a bridge to Europe. This is due to geopoliticalism. And now, ladies and gentlemen, our initiative should be that we should be this end for the Chinese, we should be prepared. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you know this, but the rail link with China, thanks to which goods and services already run between Łódź and Chengdu, is ready, and this is the shortest land link between China and Europe, the only working land link. Only that the Chinese have already built a terminal on the Chengdu side and on the Łódź side, on the Polish side of this terminal there is still no terminal. And while all kinds of goods are imported from China, shopping malls are established, for the time being, mostly in terms of the domination of Polish goods, there is food, sweets and alcohols. So that it is not enough to have this hub, you also need to have an offer. But, ladies and gentlemen, there's also a good sign. The good sign is that if we can take advantage of this opportunity that is undoubtedly ahead of us, we will get rid of this world of Sachsa-Lipton, because it is gentlemen of the International Monetary Fund, which is an alternative. The Asian bank is now becoming an alternative to the International Monetary Fund. They imposed a plan called Balcerowicz's plan. Balcerowicz actually only gave this plan a face. It was the IMF gentlemen who carried out the plan to recolonise the Polish economy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we can turn this into a Chinese story about business and development, we're all for it. Just, ladies and gentlemen, so it doesn't end the way it did when the Dutch came to New York 300 years ago and offered the natives beautiful beads. We wouldn't want it to be like this with an Asian bank. The Kukiz Club15 will support the initiative to cooperate with the Asian infrastructure and development bank. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As my previous speakers have said, the Act agrees to ratify the agreement on the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. The main objective of this new financial institution is to promote the sustainable development of Asia by supporting the development of infrastructure and other production sectors in underdeveloped Asian regions and equally neglected areas outside the continent. The idea of setting up a bank is also linked to the development of the Chinese initiative to revitalise trade routes on China-Europe. Poland's participation in this project is to be a chance to increase the expansion of international Polish entrepreneurs to the East. Our country's membership in this investment is intended to facilitate access to Asian tenders and thus become contractors, subcontractors or suppliers within the framework of projects carried out with the participation of this bank. Cooperation with the bank can also be an important source of information on Asian markets and business partners present in this area in the context of China-Europe route expansion project. Poland can also play an important role as the first country of the European Union on the route of the reactivated silk route. However, in order to move from theory to practice, much has to work. Knowledge of the bank itself and its projects must be disseminated among Polish entrepreneurs as much as possible, while the government and ministry must take on a quite important, important role of coordinator of activities. It would be good for us to take this initiative to ensure that we also have as broad a representation as possible among the staff of the institutions, not only as guaranteed by the ratified agreement of positions, but also more commercial positions. In this way, Poland will be able to regularly supervise the proper functioning of the bank and ensure the proper return of the invested capital. However, it should be stressed that the establishment of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank is not innovative or new. There are financial institutions on the market which play a very similar role also in this area. Among these are the Asian Development Bank, which brings together 67 countries, of which 2/3 are from Asia and the Pacific. His actions are mainly focused on the work in this area. The opponents of the project say that the Chinese government simply wants to improve its position on the international stage and increase the possibility of financial impact on the continent. The sceptics are concerned that the new financial institution will not meet the legal standards, labour standards, transparency of procedures or tenders to be accompanied by the activities of such an international financial institution. The Chinese authorities explain that the current assistance of international financial institutions is insufficient, hence the need to set up a new initiative. The Modern Club recognizes that despite various risks, it is worth taking part in it. A few words about funding. The bank's capital is going to be $100 billion. The share of individual countries was calculated on the basis of the volume of GDP and purchasing power parity. Poland is expected to contribute approximately $380 million in capital. 20% of the capital is to be paid in cash. The remaining part of the shares is to be paid on demand as collateral for the solvency of the bank as an institution and an issuer of securities. It is also worth adding two words to this, because according to the statement given in the explanatory memorandum, the amount of the first payment was included in the 2016 Budget Act. However, it should be noted, as BAS also points out, that the payment item related to the shares of the State Treasury in international financial institutions was planned at a level higher than in 2015 by just PLN 72.5 million. Therefore, the question is: Is this amount secured in its entirety? In addition, the amount of the commitment of PLN 2.6 billion payable on demand raises concerns. It will be included in the budget of the non-balance-sheet State, which in fact makes it necessary to continuously monitor the risks associated with the possible need for payment. To sum up all these pros and cons, the Modern Club, as I said, will support this initiative, but as if we wanted to highlight the risks that we think the Ministry should take into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u257	Thank you. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. High Seym! We live in a globalised world, you could say, whether we want it or not. Because you have to agree with the repeated opinion quite often that it is also good, and the bad side of our lives, our statehood. We ourselves have sought admission to many international institutions - such as NATO, the European Union or the International Monetary Fund mentioned here - to see many benefits for this country, for our citizens. We have sought membership, and we are aware of certain limitations and responsibilities assigned to these organisations. Participation in the creation of an investment bank may or may not be so important, but it also required many negotiations and was preceded by a broad analysis of political and economic circumstances. It took a few years. It is worth mentioning this, because it was initiated by the government of PO-PSL with the Minister of Economy of Janusz Piechociński. Analyses and consultations with entrepreneurs who are potentially interested in the expansion of Asian markets and those who are already present in these markets have shown that this initiative is recognised and supported by these communities. Poland's participation in the bank is indeed conditional, as has already been mentioned here in the speeches, in many dimensions, including political ones, which need to be mentioned, because this decision has a certain dimension of the growing activity of Poland on the Asian continent, with increasing relations with China. As of 2012 Poland has established a strategic partnership with the People's Republic of China. Also in the economic dimension, participation in the bank is seen by Poland as an element supporting the international and investment expansion of Polish companies in foreign markets, which is undoubtedly an important factor of economic growth. In recent times, we have seen a great deal of interest among businesses in these non-European and especially Asian markets. Poland's participation in the bank is also part of the foreign economic policy objectives of our country, both in the medium and long term. It is worth, High Sejm, also to emphasize the current usefulness of the investment bank. It is important that Polish entrepreneurs can obtain funding from potential Polish investors as part of projects undertaken jointly with the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. I think that this can significantly reduce some risk of investment in that area of the world. High Seym! As regards the equity side, it has already been mentioned several times, indeed our share of the bank's capital is relatively small. The founding amount was set at $100 billion, our share is 0.847%. In such a dimension, we will probably be able to interact there, and we should seek far greater opportunities for action or impact. In any case, summing up my statement and the position of the club, taking into account the positives of this institution, I would like to state that Poland's membership in it can become a really important tool supporting the implementation of Polish political and economic interests abroad. We therefore welcome the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u259	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up again, you're welcome. After the first question, I'll close the list. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the fact that Poland is among the 57 potential founding countries of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, is a strategy being prepared to help Polish companies enter the investment market in Asia? Are there preparations for facilitation and support for companies that will allow them to cooperate internationally, which will contribute to the development of the economy in our country and strengthen Poland's position in the eastern markets? Is it also planned to prepare comprehensive information for Polish companies about the possibilities of taking action in the framework of investments financed by the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u262	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is no doubt that Poland's participation in this project can make it easier for Polish entrepreneurs to have access to the work they could carry out outside our country, and it is also clear that participation in this project is part of building an economic climate conducive to improving competitiveness both by increasing efficiency and innovation and by supporting foreign presence. Of course, the bank itself and its participation are not a guarantee of economic success and the benefits that potential companies can enjoy. However, they must achieve this on their own, thanks to a good offer - thanks to reliable work and a good offer. The explanatory memorandum of this law indicates that the support of entrepreneurs in the search for opportunities and partners to carry out projects financed by the bank will be implemented. This also applies to technical assistance related to the preparation of tender documents. I therefore ask two questions. The first concerns which agency or government agency will play a key role in this undertaking. And second question: On what basis will the companies to which this aid will be granted be selected? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u263	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On the occasion of this ratification, I wanted to ask you about specific numbers. As a state we have to pay $166 million as a cash share, while year by year the budget line: the share of the State Treasury in international financial institutions increased by about PLN 72 million, and I wanted to ask if this share is secured somewhere, from which it will be, from which position it will be transferred. And the second question concerns the future - a possible, hopefully not - is that at the request of the bank our budget will be obliged to pay PLN 2.6 billion in the event of a disaster. This solvency security will be booked off-balance sheet, but I wanted to ask if there was any analysis if there was such a situation that this amount had to be paid out, how it would be carried out. Is there an analysis of what funds? Do you have any knowledge of this? Is there a plan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u265	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you, because there used to be offices of a sales attorney, and I know that there was a liquidation period, and some of them were probably shut down, and I don't know what the situation is right now. Will these offices or their counterparts created in their place be used to cooperate in supporting Polish investors and in contacts between banking structures and Polish investors in the area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u267	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer your questions. The first questions were about strategy and information mechanisms, so what's now in this... Maybe I'll say another way. Of course, the use of the opportunity to support Polish companies as part of the operation of AIIB depends on demand, on the one hand on companies, on the other, on the efficiency of providing information and support from Polish institutions in such a way that actually Polish companies take advantage of this opportunity. The first step in this direction is cooperation between the Minister of Development, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance, and this cooperation is. The result of this cooperation is indeed that, after ratification, proposals will be drawn up to make it easier for entrepreneurs to know all the conditions and opportunities involved in the operation of AIIB. Within the Ministry of Finance it is also such that such works are carried out, and it can be said that the Polish party also tried to obtain such an opportunity that the subsidiary of AIIB was in Warsaw, which would actually increase the chances that this information and investment opportunities would be better used by Polish entrepreneurs. Therefore, it is now difficult to answer exactly which government agency will deal with this in the sense that it will deal with information about business opportunities. That's not a decision. By returning to the question of budgetary resources, the funds allocated to this, of course, are reserved in the state budget for 2016. The second question is, what would happen if the guarantees had to be paid. This is a standard situation where funds would also come from a situation where a large international institution - which is very unlikely, almost impossible for AIIB to become an international institution in such a poor financial condition that it would require the mobilisation of a guarantee - would, of course, mean the payment of some funds from the state budget. As far as the question is concerned about the sales advisor's office, I'll ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u269	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Katarzyna Kacperczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u270	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Let me refer to Mrs Tomaszewska's question. Thank you so much for that question. Indeed, the offices of the trading counsel have been liquidated, but they have been replaced by trade and investment promotion departments. Such a trade and investment promotion department is also located in the structures of the Embassy of the Republic of Poland in Beijing, and this trade and investment promotion department will be used to promote both the idea itself and this information about potential projects that can be financed by the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, but also to provide support for companies in the implementation of these projects. I would also like to remind you that the embassy, in particular the trade and investment promotion department, has provided and provided such support on an ongoing basis. It is also worth noting that from 1 March the Minister of Finance is sending a customs adviser to the structures of the Beijing embassy, which will facilitate this cooperation and implementation of projects related to export cooperation and investment cooperation between Poland and China. I would also like to stress, since the question is being asked for support from embassies, in particular trade and investment promotion departments, that this support for projects that will be co-financed by the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank will not only be provided by the embassy in Beijing, because, as your Member and also you know, these projects will also be implemented in Central Asia, in countries such as Georgia, Kazakhstan, in countries where Polish entrepreneurs have special interests. All these facilities, which are on the route of this new silk route, as well as projects that will be implemented in these countries on this route between Asia and Europe, will be supported by Polish embassies, economic departments, political departments, as well as trade and investment promotion departments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u271	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and some other laws (Print No. 289). I ask Mr Michael Wójcik to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u272	Dear Marshal, Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of a group of Members, a draft amendment to the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which also provides for the amendment of other laws, namely the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, which was recently discussed here, and the Law on the System of General Courts. Last year's amendment to the Law on the System of General Courts and the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office introduced a new model of judicial application, but today it is worth to lean on this model, which is proposed, which was to be implemented in a few months' time, a model that is really dangerous for a few reasons that I am about to say, and which today should be repaired by this amendment. Well, a few days ago, I had the opportunity to read in one of the media that the law should not change so often as regards matters relating to the broader education of persons for the purposes of justice. It's the courts, the D.A.'s office. About that, it's a total agreement. On the other hand, if we are talking about something that is extremely important, something that is extremely sensitive, which is the foundation of a broadly understood justice system, because we are talking about people who issue judgments on behalf of the Republic of Poland, we are talking about people who work in an institution of the prosecutor's office, which we have talked about so much about here in recent weeks, we need to create a model that actually meets the expectations of one of the stakeholders, a very important interested party, which is a state - state. Another interested party is the citizens. And the state, and the citizens have the right to expect that people who have completed the application, these are people who have been well trained, these are top-class professionals who will work for the next years, serving our state, because very often judges, prosecutors say that they are not doing their job, but they are serving a certain service. And about that, total agreement. So we're talking about a system that is designed to prepare the entire justice system on the subject. It can be said that today it is worth asking a few questions about what will happen if this amendment is actually implemented by the end of last year. Whether she will actually respond to the expectations of different stakeholders, but also to the beneficiaries of the whole system themselves, in this case, for example, people who are taking up education in the context of the judge's application. The most vivid example of how an unfair system was created is the provisions concerning the requirement for an 18-month application to be performed by a person ending an application not necessarily in a state institution, not necessarily as a referenda, but as an extra-state institution, for example. This person must work directly for 18 months, for example, in creating or applying the law. It is not known why such regulations have been introduced. Why are they unfair? Well, because if someone chooses not to go to a judge's application, but to a prosecutor's application, then the judge can be much earlier than the person who will have to adapt to those records during those 18 months and will be e.g. for 18 months. participated directly in the creation or application of the law, e.g. in an out-of-state institution. In fact, after 18 months, he may not find a place in justice at all and may not be a judge. Such a system was created, a system extremely unfair. Today we have to ask ourselves how this whole system should be built. The revision, which consists of several provisions, is one of the shortest, but perhaps socially it is one of the most important that we have discussed in recent months. We need to ask ourselves what this system should look like, and really we need to have a big debate involving very different environments in discussing how to shape law enforcement, courts, prosecutors. That is why this amendment is aimed at delaying the introduction of these provisions, which are really dangerous from the point of view of the state, are harmful, I say again, in my opinion to you. This amendment primarily serves this purpose. That's why today, when I see what it looks like, for example, the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, jealously looking at it, because years ago it wasn't... Millions cost it. The state, citizens, taxpayers have spent large amounts of money and have the right to expect a system to be built so that, in fact, this service of the judge or the prosecutor will be given the highest qualifications, so that it is not people of chance and that there are no gaps in the entire training system allowing representatives of, for example. other competitions... Of course, they have the right, but not with loss for those people who pass the training period e.g. in the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which, if you introduce these records of last year's amendment, I really think will be marginalized in a short time, and I'll tell you more, maybe something very controversial, that a completely marginalized judge's application will be marginalized. This is the danger that threatens because of this amendment. I can already announce today that such consultations will begin. I think that next month, because I know that for sure, there will be a seminar at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office in Cracow. And I think that a lot of stakeholders, different environments, associations, students, people who are really interested in this whole system, building a good system, everyone will have the right for the next months and at the same time have an obligation to say what this system should look like. But we can't do it on such terms. Sometimes it is worth asking why we want to eliminate the general application. How has it been studied that it's inefficient that it's too expensive? I have not seen such a document, and today one can ask the question: What was the reason for these changes, which is the reason that this general application is being abolished? I mean, technically, it's not even possible. The whole system has been decentralized, the whole system has been dismantled and today, from the point of view of the state, the taxpayer, but also from the point of view of the young people who are educating, this system is dangerous. I would like to say that regulations need to be blocked and, at the same time, continued training of applicants at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, if, of course, this proposal is voted out, the regulations will apply to the general application, at least in 2016, i.e. persons will be admitted to the general application. I think this is very important information for people who are applying. We extend the existing model of two-stage training of judicial and prosecutors' applicants. It's part one, that's the 12-month general application, but it's also the specialized application. I would also like to draw attention to the two things that we are talking about in our amendment, namely the revision of the article. 12 laws on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I don't know why the regulations have been abolished, which specifically specify in which cases the headmaster of this school may be cancelled. It's completely incomprehensible, I couldn't find an argument. It seems reasonable to re-establish the regulations that once existed, until recently, before this amendment, which so effectively mention the reasons why a person may be removed from office by the Minister of Justice from the position of head of the national school. Of course this is an important provision, an extremely important provision in terms of the protection of this director, but also the consistency of the whole system, because as far as members of the board are concerned, there are indicated reasons for the appeal, in this case there is no person, i.e. during the term of office a person may be cancelled at any time, actually for any reason. The second point is to introduce the possibility for the Minister of Justice to transform every second judge's position, but not every district court in question. It's an important change, because it's not like... After all, the Minister of Justice has excellent discernment, where there are needs, so we must add the word "dated." The same applies to the possibility of converting a free judicial position which has not been filled in a given district court. Once again, I would like to point out that this is a socially very important amendment, and I would urge all clubs to lean in on these provisions that we have proposed. The point is to give yourself time to prepare a well-functioning system and not to underestimate it. From the point of view of the State, the interests of the State and all stakeholders, citizens, also those involved in these applications, this system must be absolutely transparent. And if we are to reform the justice system, this is a fundamental issue, because who decides, who conducts the preparatory proceedings or supervises the preparatory proceedings, whether he is acting as public prosecutors before public courts, is an extremely important matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u273	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and certain other laws. As we know, the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office was set up under the 2009 Act. The Minister of Justice supervises the school. According to Art. 2 (2) 1 point 3 of the Act, one of the tasks of the national school is to conduct a judicial application and a prosecutor's application. We agree with the assumption that the existing two-step application model, consisting of a general application and a subsequent 30-month judicial or prosecutorial application, will be extended temporarily. The solutions adopted last year by the Act created concerns about the effectiveness of training candidates for judges and prosecutors. The extension of the existing form of training will allow, on the one hand, for recruitment for the general application in 2016, but, on the other hand, and even more importantly, it will give time to prepare better thoughtful changes. We also support other proposals resulting from this amendment, namely, on the one hand, amendments to the Law on the System of General Courts, in particular that the President of the Appeals Court should inform the Minister of Justice as early as possible if he were to turn the judge to rest, which would allow him to rationally manage his duties in general courts. In addition, it is also important to consider a real shift in the process of creating common first positions in the judiciary. This would allow legislative work to be undertaken in order to optimally shape the model of access to the judge's office by the graduates of the judge's application. The draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and some other laws is, we believe, well-founded. By acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club will support further work on this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u275	Thank you. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has a voice. There's no envoy. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The training of future judicial staff is of fundamental importance. The quality of the education system shall be demonstrated by the suitability for the profession of judge and prosecutor by graduates of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Here are two important questions: Is centralised education at all a system favourable to justice and the prosecution? Doesn't the central system require significant modifications? It seems that the model of training of applicants at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is a desirable solution because it provides a level playing field, as it gives financial stability to applicants who were not before its introduction. We remember very well the times of non-etat applications in office units of prosecutors and courts. Young lawyers who wanted to power the Temida ranks for three years were left without means to live. They often took up work, for example. At law firms to survive with their families. It was a pathology-generating system. The current model, based on the solid foundations of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, should be continued. The Kukiz Club15 is also in the position of the necessity of maintaining the existing rules, which provide for the maintenance of the general application and only then the selection of the specialized application. The parliamentary project is moving in this direction and, as such, deserves support. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna go over the details of the proposed bill. The most important issue seems to be the employment model of applicants of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Well, last year's amendment transformed this space, transferring the obligation to employ from school to district courts and prosecutors. This was not an acceptable solution. It created new responsibilities on the side of employing court presidents and prosecutors, responsibilities that were successfully carried out by the school. Presumably, the emergence of these obligations would require the maintenance of the positions of the heads of training in the courts and prosecutors' offices, which exist, but also in view of the centralised training system of prosecutors and judges, they do not deserve to be maintained. The school employment system is therefore a simpler and more readable and beneficial system. High Izbo! It is also extremely important to maintain the mechanisms obliging graduates to remain in the service of justice. In order to do so, the State invests in legal training in order to have a well-prepared staff of lawyers in the service of the State, not lawyers in the service of the corporation. The Kukiz Club15 also supports the changes aimed at abolishing the current model of access to the profession of judge. This model led to a situation where the profession of judge was the crown of the profession of referee or assistant. The way to a judge's profession should be through an assesura, not an assistant or a referee. A graduate of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office should therefore be given the opportunity to become an asessor, not a referee or assistant. This is a return to good old-fashioned solutions. A provision allowing prosecutors to appear before regional courts in cases in which investigations have been conducted should also be considered a favourable solution. For incomprehensible reasons, such solutions have so far been reserved for solicitors and counselors. Finally, the last reflection, this is more of a call for the Minister of Justice and the headmaster of the school. It is necessary to look at education programmes. These programs are not optimal. The applicants of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office must spend more time behind prosecutors and judges' desks than in school benches. They must have more contact with the patrons. It is also necessary, especially in the case of prosecutors, to increase the emphasis on practical work related to the sightings of the site. In recent years, the most spectacular failures of the justice system have their origin in the wrongly conducted sightings of the scene. It is enough to mention the inspection of the abduction site of Krzysztof Olewnik or the trampled meadow at the death site of General Papala. There is virtually no week in which popular television programs do not refer to appalling cases where errors are visible to the naked eye during the inspection of the site. This needs to be changed already at the training stage of future prosecutors and judges. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 requests that the bill be submitted to the committee for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u277	Thank you very much. I'm ordering a two-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 28 hrs. 18 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 10 of the agenda. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u278	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position concerning the draft law from print No 289 on the amendment of the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and some other laws. This parliamentary project assumes among others. amendments to the recently amended Act on 9 April 2015 on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which divided the submission of applicants between the head of the school and the staff of the President of the District Court or the District Attorney. The applicant's employer was responsible for organising apprenticeships on the application. This legal situation caused the applicants to devote most of their time to practical training. I pay particular attention to reassigning the organisation of practices to the Director of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The amendment introduced by the Sejm of the previous term of office entrusted this task to employers of applicants, which was intended to be a good solution due to direct professional dependence. The previously adopted two-step training system should ensure that the best-prepared persons are recruited by a judge and prosecutor. However, the most important change in the whole process of training judges and prosecutors is the return to the previous shape of the application, the restoration of the general application, after which the specialist application took place. Restoring this model, contrary to what the Members of the applicant say, will not benefit our legal system at all, will only lead to overproduction of human resources, which, according to the Members of Law and Justice, is essentially to prevent. Restoring the general application can cause what already in 2012 in the article "How to teach the art of judging" wrote Prof. Dariusz Dudek, a member of the Programme Board of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. It suggested, in fact, that the selection after the general application for two profiled applications is a negative rather than a positive selection. Since the choice is among the best, and they usually choose the judge's application as a more universal one, people with worse results or 'necessity' go to prosecutors. The changes proposed by you will result in graduates of the general application who do not continue their training on the specialist application being able to apply for the posts of assistants to judges and referees - as has been the case so far. The amendment of this law introduced in 2015 has greatly simplified this process. As pointed out in the 2013 report of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights entitled "National Judicial School and Public Prosecutor's Office." What to appreciate, what to change, what to improve?: For financial reasons, prestigious reasons and because of the lack of a clear path of professional promotion (this applies primarily to assistants), this is not an attractive solution, but rather frustrating for graduates of general application. After a year of intensive training, which was supposed to open their way to the profession of judge, they can count on employment in a position where remuneration may be lower than the application scholarship and the chances of career promotion very limited. It is therefore hardly surprising to be interested in these positions and, as a result, to have a large number of vacancies in courts. As a result, the State is investing substantial resources in the training of general applicants, risking some of them leaving for the judicial system, mainly for legal corporations. The problem is therefore not only for the graduates themselves, but also for the rational management of public funds. The proposed amendments to the Law of 27 July 2001 on the system of common courts are to improve the process of filling vacant judicial positions, as justified by Members of the applicant. It is undoubtedly necessary to improve the process of filling vacant positions in common courts. However, the question should be asked whether the procedure laid down in the Act will actually lead to this, especially since, as the Members of the applicant state in the explanatory memorandum concerning the amendment of the Law of 10 July 2015 on the Law on the Law on the General Court, the first assignment of an assessor's position to the court concerned or the conversion of that position will take place only after 30 October 2017. You are also pointing out that this time is necessary for the Ministry of Justice to prepare an optimal model of access to the judge's office by the graduates of the judicial application. However, this is not enough for the applicants and they are planning another extension of the powers of Minister of Justice and Prosecutor General Zbigniew Ziobra in this project. Is the new D.A.'s Law not enough power for the Minister? It seems that yes, and in this novel it is to have additional power, this time under the authority of the Director and the Programme Council of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, so that under the new rules it can freely appoint and dismiss persons from these posts, thus having a direct impact on the functioning of the school and the training of future judges and prosecutors. In addition, in the explanatory memorandum, the group of Members of the applicant states that this amendment will lead to optimal regulation of the relationship between the Minister of Justice and the Director of the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office in relation to its public status as an institution training candidates to serve as a judge or prosecutor, which in practice can mean only one thing: full submission to the person of the Minister of Justice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is not all the changes in the scope of the bill under review, the next novel is to change the Law on the system of common courts, as regards the rules governing the seat of dismissed judicial positions, consisting in the need to notify the Minister of Justice by the President of the Court of Appeal five months before the planned release of the judge's position. The Minister's notice in advance is intended to improve the staffing of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u279	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u280	Marshal, two more seconds and I'm done.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u281	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u282	Thank you very much. ...it's supposed to improve the staffing of the judges' posts in advance, because the minister can't find out the last one, he has to have time to prepare his own candidate in the proverbial way. Trouble is, in a situation...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u283	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u284	...the retiring of the judges, the project predicts... [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u285	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, it is my pleasure to present the position of the club on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the National Court and Public Prosecutor's Office in print No 289. The project assumes complete submission of the Director of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General. According to the draft, the Minister will be able to dismiss the Director when he fails to perform his duties. In other words, when he likes it. This, in our view, is another extension of the powers of Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, and this is already so extensive in terms of justice. According to the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office must have a clear degree of independence. In other words, it must be separated from political factors. If the judiciary and the prosecutor's office are to be apolitical, this apoliticality should be ensured already at the training stage of judges and prosecutors. In our assessment, the choice of school head should be influenced by the National Judicial Council and the National Public Prosecutor's Council, e.g. Both games select two candidates, and out of these two candidates, the Minister continues to select the one he will appoint as director. As regards the maintenance of the general application, already at the stage of the work on the previous amendment, it has been stressed on several occasions that, following the entry into force of the Law of 10 May 2013 amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts, the result of which was a reduction of the requirements imposed on candidates for the post of Assistant Judge, the general application has lost its right to exist, and this is because its completion only entitles them to seek further training of judges or prosecutors. The use of public funding to finance training which does not confer any benefit on the justice system, especially when there is a lack of funding for continuing training for judges, prosecutors or assistants, is completely missing the target. The model proposed in the amendment adopted during the previous term of office of the Sejm assumed to shift the burden of training to individual districts. In the opinion of the Polish People's Party, application training must prepare thoroughly for the profession of judge or prosecutor, and the main element of such preparation should be daily work, carrying out various duties in appropriate positions in courts and organisational units of the prosecutor's office. The parliamentary project involves training applicants in Cracow and conducting practices in common courts and prosecutors' offices. The current state of law assumes that applicants of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutors' Offices would be employed in courts and district prosecutors, where they would carry out duties identical to those of assistants. This is an optimal solution, because on the one hand such applicants will be better prepared for the profession, and on the other hand the actions of the courts and prosecutors will be improved. It is not for nothing in the judge's assistants' environment that there is a saying that the assistant is the master of the process, because it is the assistants who largely unload the embolism at the stage of non-trial proceedings. Regardless of the above, it should be noted that the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office has been amended several times during its period of validity. The draft law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is another return to solutions that have failed and have been changed in a thoughtful manner, preceded by several months of consultation by the Sejm of the previous term of office. In other words, it may be worth thinking about a law restoring all the changes that took place after November 2007 when the rule of law and justice ceased to function. In view of the above reservations, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party does not see the possibility of supporting the submitted project in its proposed form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u287	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. No questions. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Only briefly on behalf of the Minister of Justice, I wanted to take a position that absolutely supported the proposed parliamentary proposal for fundamental reasons. The amendment to which some of your fellow Members have referred, from 9 April 2015, I do not hesitate to use this wording, the legislative framework. Of course, some solutions can be discussed whether they are good, whether they are bad, but for example. to bring about a situation where an assailant can become an attorney or legal counsel after 18 months... It's probably an art. 106h. She becomes the court's assistant, and then she's the court's assistant for two years. In theory, such a person may apply for a judicial position. In turn, it was forgotten that according to the article. 61 will not be able to apply for a judge's seat. Therefore, this assesura will not serve anything, because the 18 months of the profession of lawyer, legal counsel, notary, is too short a period to meet the condition of the article. 61, because there are 3 years, and in order to be an asessor and as an asessor ruling for a minimum of 2 years to apply for a judge's position, you need to have a passed judge's exam, which, of course, those practicing a profession of lawyer or legal counsel usually do not have one. Therefore, we come to an absurd situation. If I wanted to, I could give you a few more examples of the consistency of this text today and what the amendment of 9 April 2015 introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said here that public resources are respected in order to prevent waste. What, other than wasting public funds, powerful public funds, because the cost of training is not low, it cannot be low, is to bring about the situation that the rapporteur was talking about, in which the person who has passed the judge's exam suddenly has to practice for 18 months? Where? At a lawyer's office, counsellor's office? She has no obligation to go back to court. Moreover, she has no guarantee that she will return to this court because she has to apply for a judge's position in an open competition in which she will compete, for example. with ten or fifteen other candidates. What does that mean? The potential throwing hundreds of thousands or millions of zlotys into the mud, and the person, I dare say, who has completed a very difficult, very demanding judicial application at school, is ready to perform asessorship. If he is successful, he will become a judge, and he will certainly do this service properly. The Ministry of Justice needs time to prepare the appropriate changes. We cannot lead another yearbook to include a new formula and this will prevent us from properly regulating the investigation to the judicial office or to the execution of the prosecutor's office. That's the time it takes. That is why it is an extension of the process of appointing the first assessors, which the rapporteur spoke about. There was a voice in the discussion or in the club speech about the fact that it is better for the President of the District Court to organize the practice and the District Attorney. Of course not, because being a school application is training yourself. If a person has employee status, he will be required to do work for an average of 3 weeks a month. The President of the District Court or the District Attorney will be interested in supporting the work of the individual for whom he is responsible - the President or the Prosecutor - rather than entrusting him with various activities, developing the applicant, thus supplementing the training process. The educational process is that once a month, the applicant is in school, the next three weeks in the home court or the office of the prosecutor. If the headmaster of the national school loses control of what this person is doing for 3/4 of the training process, how is he expected, how can he expect this final product, the future judge, the future prosecutor, to be the person we all want to deal with? It's said that school, something like this happened here, it's not effective that the school didn't check out the training process with the general application. Then a division was made into a judge's or prosecutor's application. I have the impression, not only that it is the opposite, that it has worked out very well and that our school is considered one of the best in Europe, some say it is the best. Judge Wojciech Postulski of the school, the judge, that is, he was assigned to the school, serves as Secretary General of the EJTN, a European network for the training of judges throughout Europe. For the first time in the history of this unit, probably about 20 years of history, it is possible that after a four-year term the same person will take the position of secretary-general because he has a good chance. There will probably be elections in June. Therefore, this is the measure of the success of the school and of the model that is and has worked out, and which we want to extend, because we do not say, we would, if the High House would allow it, not say that it is perfect, but we say that everything indicates that it is better than that which follows from the novel of 9 April 2015. Indeed, there is a school principal, Professor Manowska, in the hall and organizes a big conference on 21 April, a big debate on the future model of education. Everyone interested will say what a model of prosecution should be to the judge's office or to the prosecutor's office. But we need time again. We don't need to get into something that already looks very bad at first glance. Better something that works well, extends, and at that time think and work calmly on something that might be better. There have also been voices that the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, will increase his power through this bill. Where, ladies and gentlemen? Where? If the conditions for the cancellation of the head of the school by the Minister are laid down in this law, and according to the novel of 9 April 2015, she, inter alia. It was that these conditions were eliminated, it was the Minister of Justice, if this law enters into force, self-limiting, because there will finally be some conditions, perhaps more or less judgmental, but these are the same conditions that were before the amendment of 9 April, and now he can cancel at any time, for any reason, because there are no grounds, but there is the possibility of cancellation. So the minister doesn't increase his power, he limits it. His authority over the school is limited. And I think that's a good indication of the candidates' intentions. It also shows that the director was chosen in the competition proceedings, although this law, which entered into force, did not require a competition. It was announced by his predecessor, the minister could have canceled it, he didn't do it. There was a contest procedure, a director was elected, works, the school is functioning better. And one last thing. Frying up a candidate for a judge for a couple of months. Oh, come on, there's another gross mistake that's been made on the occasion of that last amendment. Because, yes, the judge's nomination procedure takes several months to a year, depending on whether they appeal or not, as will be done efficiently, at least six months. If the Minister of Justice knows that in six months' time a post will be released because he gets information from the President of the Court of Appeal, in some court, because the judge is going to retire, a future event and certain, he may eventually die earlier, but if nothing happens, he will go to rest, he may initiate the procedure. There may be an announcement in the Polish Monitor. The period during which the judge's appointment will not be settled, which is theoretically we have a judge, in practice he is not, is shortening. And so it has been for years, but again there are legislative deficiencies, not knowing why this possibility has been removed, and now the President of the Appeals Court should formally inform the Minister of Justice, say: in July the judge's post is released, the President of the Appeals Court knows that the judge's post is being released in July, should wait until July to inform the Minister. Why? So we can have a jury job for five months without anybody working there to make the backlogs grow? These are situations of this kind, not suggesting that the Minister of Justice has any influence on the personal decision or X or Y becoming a judge. This is the exclusive competence of the National Judicial Council and just look at u.s.p. And the KRS bill to see it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u289	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u290	The problem is that, in a situation where judges go to rest, the project provides for the conversion of their posts into asessors' posts, which, as we read, is intended to effectively manage their posts by the Minister of Justice. In conclusion, we are looking at another attempt to create a Minister of Justice with effective tools to create his own staff policy, but this time the urges go up to the common courts. The plan is to allow him to have an influence on the recruitment of reactivated assesor posts, so that the president can only appoint those on the line of the Minister. On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern proposal to refer this bill to the relevant committees to begin corrective work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u291	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and certain other laws, contained in print No 289, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for today, on 9 March. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list and make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Please make your first statement by Marek Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. How about protocol, in writing? [[It's short, Mr. Marshal.]] Yeah, that's what everybody says.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u292	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In my parliamentary statement, I would like to report on this year's two-time celebrations of the National Day of Remembrance of Soldiers Cursed in my hometown, Andrychow. The first one took place on Sunday, February 28th, and on the initiative of the All-Polish Youth and an organization called Andrychowski Patriots began the Holy Mass at hours. 18 at St. Maciej, in which the inhabitants of the city and the surroundings participated. After the Holy Mass, the participants, gathered in the number of about 350 people, took part in the march of memory, which from under the church marched through the streets of the city center. The culmination of the celebration was the laying of flowers and the shrine under an Andrychian mural made three years ago and dedicated to young people's initiative. There were occasional speeches, bringing closer the silhouettes of soldiers from Andrychów's land, who after 1944 engaged in a heroic fight for the self-presenting and independent Polish state. The singing of all four verses of the Polish anthem ended the ceremony. An important accent of the celebration was also the submission of flowers by local leaders and right-wing activists on 1 March under the plaque commemorating the soldiers cursed on the so-called. Andrychowsky Golgotha. It has been a great privilege for me to be able to attend these grand celebrations, especially in the part organized at the initiative of young people. And I think it is good that the new generation of Poles, even in small towns, appreciates and feels the need to honor those who died for the freedom of our homeland. The atmosphere and climate of the new quality presented by young people could not be overlooked. I hope and would like to see the new quality of patriotism visible among young people, in addition to putting the good of their own country and country in the hierarchy of values, always with the recognition of other social values and, above all, respect for other peoples and cultures and respect for their sovereign rights. In addition to the strong national trend, patriotism will certainly take into account its Christian roots and elements which have brought to our tradition a widely understood European civilization - in a culture in which the unity of humanistic values and the diversity of national experiences generally functions. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the reflection occurred to me when I attended these celebrations, and I decided to share it with you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u293	Thank you very much. Now please, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With reference to the draft law amending the Animal Protection Act and some other laws of 19 February 2016 by members of the club Modern Foundation for Farmer's Support Poland The Earth, with which I cooperate, conveys its position on the industrial breeding of fur animals in Poland. We strongly oppose the statutory total ban on the industrial breeding of fur animals in the territory of the Republic of Poland, which is included in the above-mentioned project. The introduction of such a ban would not in any way contribute to guaranteeing the protection of animals, but would to a large extent translate into the depletion of Polish producers and rural residents and the actual destruction of the entire branch of domestic agricultural production. In the country there are about 750 farms of carnivorous fur animals located on soils, which are not allowed to grow crops. Farming of fur animals creates jobs directly for 10,000. people of whom the vast majority are rural residents. Indirectly, the industry employs around 50,000 in various forms. persons. The value of Polish farms and their equipment is estimated at almost PLN 5 billion. Poland ranks second in Europe and third in the world in terms of mink leather production. The value of exports of this raw material amounts to about PLN 1.5 billion, and Polish companies generate budget revenue of more than 1%. Almost 100% our raw material goes to renowned auction houses in Helsinki, Copenhagen, Seattle and Toronto. In addition, the industry generates indirect budgetary revenue from income tax on employees and employers themselves, as well as VAT. The fur industry does not receive any budget subsidies from local, national or EU resources. Farms of fur animals create jobs in structural unemployment areas, often in former state farms. In this sector, employment is also found by people whose low qualifications would not allow them to earn regular jobs in another industry. For years the production of fur animals has been faced with attacks by activists and organisations that accuse them of low environmental care and alleged animal abuse. In fact, the breeding of fur animals is subject to the supervision of the Veterinary Inspection, the Environmental Inspection, the Construction Inspection and the State Labour Inspection. In 2014 the Council The Supreme Audit Chamber has shown significant improvement in the functioning of Polish farms. They do not pollute water or land. Polish companies have a significant contribution to environmental protection. They manage 500,000 a year. by-products of animal origin, thereby contributing to the ecological and economic disposal of those products. The feces of fur animals successfully replace industrial fertilisers, becoming a natural organic fertilizer, which is environmentally friendly. The restriction or total ban on the industrial rearing of fur animals will not result in a reduction in the demand and production of natural leather and fur. The Member States of the European Union, which have decided to introduce such restrictions, did not occupy such a market position as Poland. The production of fur animals was a marginal part of agriculture there, which also did not constitute as strong a branch of the economy as in the case of Poland. In addition, other countries, such as Spain, Russia, China, are developing their own production, including with the participation of state resources. Only the Netherlands, which banned breeding in the country, was a significant producer of fur skins. However, this country has highly developed other sectors of agriculture and industry and the ban does not have a significant impact on the country's economy. Unfortunately, we cannot say this about Poland, where neither agriculture nor industry are as developed as in the rich Benelux country. The Foundation for Farmer Support Poland Earth, with which I am cooperating, hopes that any possible legislative initiative on this subject will be preceded by a fair debate in which fair, factual arguments will appear. In the opinion of the foundation, it would be highly undesirable to restrict or prohibit the industrial breeding of fur animals in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u295	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mrs Anita Czerwińska. How about the minutes, Member?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Tomorrow is the 90th anniversary of colonel's birth. Czesław Justyna Cywiński's pseudonym. Skylark, Richard. He was born on 10 March 1926 in Vilnius. He began his conspiracy as a junior high school student, joining the Free Poles' Union, where he served as an intelligence officer. In the autumn of 1942, he began his activities in the Home Army in the district B garrison in Vilnius, taking part in the acquisition and accumulation of weapons and ammunition. At the beginning of 1944 it was incorporated into 1. The Vilnius AK Brigade. In the guerrilla ward he participated in many diversionary actions, he participated in Operation Ostra Gate in the fights for Vilnius. On 18 July 1944, along with the 1st Brigade, he was surrounded and disarmed by NKVD troops. From the camp of the NKVD in Medniki he was transported to Kaluga and Soviet camps, because he and his colleagues refused to take an oath and join the Red Army. Czesław Cywiński for over 25 years presided over the environment of former soldiers 1. The Vilnius AK Brigade, Juranda, which was incorporated into the World Union of Home Army Soldiers in 1989. He initiated and co-organized the reconstruction of the underground part of the Pawiak prison, as well as the concept of its expansion. In 2002, together with the Institute of National Remembrance, he co-initiated the appointment of the Historical Club. General Stefan Rowecki, Grota in Warsaw, who was appointed president. By 2007 he co-organized more than 60 historical sessions in Warsaw. In July 2005, Czesław Cywiński was elected President of the General Board of the World Association of National Army Soldiers. In the same year, the President of the Council of Ministers appointed him as a member of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Walk and Martyrdom. Czesław Cywiński co-organized sessions with the Institute of National Remembrance on Polish-Lithuanian relations in 1939 and 1945 in Warsaw and Vilnius, as well as international historical and scientific sessions in Poland - Ukraine: difficult questions about genocide in Volyn and south-eastern areas of Poland. In 2006 he initiated the release of pocket-size popular publications in the series of the National Army Library: the Commanders of the Home Army, the National Army's Shares and God, Honor, Homeland. With the involvement of Czesław Cywiński, many places of memory and activities of the National Army were established. He initiated and sought promotions and decorations for many members of the World Union of National Army Soldiers. He has contributed to the development of social protection and financial assistance to the Home Army combatants. He was honored with many decorations. He died on April 10, 2010 in a plane crash in Smolensk at the age of 84. On 15 April 2010, he was posthumously appointed colonel. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u297	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jacek Wilk, Kukiz Club15, will now make a statement. There's no envoy. Therefore, Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u298	Dear Marshal, Dear Messengers! Gentlemen! Polki! There's always something hot going on in politics. Day after day, we face media noise, real and puffed-up words of heavy caliber falling on both sides of troubled groups. At the same time, when in the morning at radio stations or television studios there is a line of attack on adversaries, indicating the purposes and means of discreditation, you: a woman, a mother, a wife try to master the disdain in an awakening home. With the master's ability, you successfully negotiate in childish disputes, minimize the irritation of your spouse, and at the same time, you will be able to show yourself to the world. It is a woman's equilibrity in moving between disputes, divergent interests, as well as the ability to share aspirations and opportunities that have a salvific impact on what is happening in the sphere of both home, family and wider: work, neighbourhood, social life in general. Simplifying the narrative: it is about feminine realism, pragmatism, to put it simply, real walking on the ground. It allows you to solve these problems, to deal with all kinds of problems, which the intensity of which pales precisely because you are what you are. So the dynamics of our everyday life - family, children's, but also, there is nothing to hide, male, father's - oscillates largely around your dynamics, the dynamics of the most important woman in our environment: mother, wife, partner, boss or colleague. If we look through the folklore of our activity, we'll see that we're dancing the way they're gonna play. The conductor of this home orchestra is usually you, woman. And of course it is known that both clear, beautiful, beautiful sounding sounds and sometimes false tones and impureness can come out from under your baton. It's a big responsibility. It's a tough part. However, whether it falls on a woman, because it is, whether she makes an informed choice, does not appreciate it. Therefore, whenever there is an opportunity, it is worth it - or perhaps it is just right - to express our gratitude and appreciation to women. Each of us knows very well how long, infinitely long is the litany of reasons why this gratitude is obvious, so I will not try to fill it out, do it, gentlemen, for my own use. However, I encourage you to experiment, namely, when you create a list of imagined or distributed reasons why we love women, appreciate them, appreciate them, then let's try to change roles with them in your imagination. I wonder who of us, men, in the face of often excessive abstinence, coldness, sometimes completely absent evidence of appreciation or gratitude would like to do what is their daily share - washing, cooking, cleaning, shopping, working, raising children, caring for a peasant, caring for a home, garden, sewing, sewing, washing windows, healing, calming, figuring out what to put in the garage, helping with homework, keeping good contacts with family and in-laws, remembering names, birthdays, anniversaries. Enough. I'm sick of it. How about you women? These flowers are for you. Without you, the world would be much sadder. Happy birthday. [[Applause]] [[Mr Kurzepa gives flowers to the employees of the Sejm Chancellery]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u299	Thank you very much. Now Mr Waldemar Andzel of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! March 1st this year For the sixth time, we celebrated the National Day of Remembrance, the Soldiers of the Cursed, who after World War II fought against Soviet aggression and the native communist regime. The memory of the past is very important to society as a whole, so at the turn of February and March in the district of Będzin there were a series of commemorative celebrations of heroes and great Poles who deserved especially for our homeland. On Sunday 28 February in the church of St. St. Barbara in Będzin-Koszelew took place a celebration, a Holy Mass in the intention of the cursed soldiers. After the service, the participants laid wreaths under the obelisk commemorating the heroes of the National Army, the National Armed Forces, Freedom and Independence fighting against the communist regime for free and independent Poland. On 1 March at the Shrine of the Polish Eastern Golgota in Będzin-Syberce there was also a Mass in the intention of the cursed soldiers, followed by a concert performed by the Military Orchestra of Bytom, which played in tribute to the steadfast soldiers. The melodies of patriotic songs were extremely heartwarming. On the same day, there was also a celebration of the Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers at Danuta Sidzikówny's square in the pine district of Pogoń, where I laid flowers under a monument dedicated to women fighting in the ranks of the Home Army. On March 3rd, at the Children's Theatre, they go deep. Jan Dorman in Będzin, on the other hand, took place a performance entitled: Rotmaster Witold Pilecki prepared by the theatre group operating in the City Centre of Culture in Wojkowice. In the performance, young people showed very well how the Homeland Security Office dealt with national heroes such as Witold Pilecki. Katowice also honored the memory of the solid soldiers. In the church of the Immaculate Conception there was a concert of patriotic songs performed by the Singing Team of the City of Katowice Camerata Silesia, and then a Holy Mass in the intention of soldiers of the underground independence. At the end of the service there was a call of memory and an honorary salvo. I would like to thank Mr Andrzej Drogoni, the former Director of the Institute of National Remembrance in Katowice, and all the employees of the IPN for preparing such a wonderful and elevated ceremony. All these celebrations took place thanks to the district authorities of the district of Będzinski and the involvement and assistance of the residents of my district. Like he said, sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, the National Day of Remembrance, is to be a tribute to the soldiers of the second conspiracy for the testimony of bravery and steadfast patriotic attitude and attachment to the tradition of independence, for the blood shed in defence of the homeland. That's why it's important to say about soldiers cursed and to mention them, so that all Poles remember those who fought and suffered the greatest sacrifice for free Poland in which we now live. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u301	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u302	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It took a long time for the Sejm to adopt a law on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance on 1 March, the Soldiers of the Cursed, waiting for the patriotic organizations, the Kombatant communities, friends and families of those who fell in battle, were murdered in communist prisons or simply left on eternal guard. The legislative initiative on the adoption of a new national holiday was launched in 2010. President Lech Kaczyński. The date of March 1 is not random. On that day of 1951, the Communists shot at the back of the head in a Mokotów prison murdered the leaders of the 4th Executive Board of the Association of Freedom and Independence, including Col. Cieplińskiego and from the village of Verynia in the district of Kolbuszowski in Podkarpacie por. Józef Batory. On this occasion, the National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers was celebrated again in this village. The celebrations began with Holy Mass. chaired by Fr. Dean Kazimierz Osaka with the participation of Fr. parish priest Jarosław Depczyński held in the parish church in Verini in the intention of Józef Batory, murdered WiN soldiers and his homeland. The occasional homily was given by Fr. Dr. Sławomir Zych. At the end of the mass, the flagship posters were gathered and went to the village cultural center, where a further part of the celebration took place. From this point I would like to thank the surviving brother Major very warmly and cordially. Joseph Bator Francis Bator, a retired teacher who spares his strength and knowledge to inform the youngest generation about the heroes of that time. This day prompts us to reflect on patriotism. Any initiative taken to recall the tragic fate of those soldiers is valuable. Standing in front of the High House in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, I would like to pay tribute to all those who heroically enlisted in the history of our nation and contributed to defending the independent Polish state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-sejm-13-1.u303	I'm gonna schedule a recess by tomorrow, 10 March this year, by 10 a.m. 11. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 15]]
