ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u1	Resume session. I am calling for the secretaries of today's proceedings Agata Borowiec, Kinga Gajewska, Adam Andruszkiewicz and Krystian Jarubas. The first part of the session will be Mr Kinga Gajewska and Mr Krystian Jarubas. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Kinga Gajewska. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 9, - Economy and Development - h.m. 9, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 9.15, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.30 a.m., - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 10.45, - Legal notice - hour. 11, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 11.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12.30, - Public Finance together with the Infrastructure Commission - h.m. 14, - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, at 3 p.m. 15, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 15, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 15, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 15, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 16, - Public Finance - hour. 17. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Safety of the Children's and Adults' Protective Vaccination Program - hours 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Children - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: National Program for Revitalization, Development and Use of the Economic Potential of Polish Rivers - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Economics and social entrepreneurship - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organization of World Youth Days Kraków 2016 - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 16, - Kujawsko-Pomorskie Parliamentary Team - h.m. 6:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u3	There you go. High Seym... We return to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Education, Science and Youth Committee on the draft parliamentary law on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 380. The question was asked by Elizabeth Rafalska, Law and Justice. You want to appear as Minister. Or as an envoy? [[As an envoy.]] As an envoy. Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska. There you go. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] The road to the Gorzów Academy was long, difficult and had its turning points. The Academy is established in Gorzów, a voivodship city, so far the only capital of the voivodship, which did not have its own higher public university. If you compare the number of Gorzów students to other cities such as Szczecin, Zielona Góra, you can see that there were several more students in these cities. If I look at Rzeszów, Opole, Kielce - it's much more. It can be said that the city was excluded in this respect. [[Game in the O.R.]] Prime Minister! High Izbo! For Gorzow, for the academic community, for the economic, local, regional and regional communities, this is an opportunity for which we warmly thank the government Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the High House, who will decide in a moment. But at the same time it is a commitment for the environments, for all the environments I have been talking about, to take advantage of this development opportunity for the future academy. Because the formula of this speech is a question, I ask the question to all those who supported the uprising of the Gorzów Academy, to friends of the Academy: Will your declarations turn into action today, into real support? Thank you very much to all those who participate in the uprising of the academy. Hello, Rector Professor Elizabeth Raczyńska, [[Applause]] Welcome to President Gorzow Jack Wójcicki, your voivode Władysław Dajczak. I thank all those who supported this initiative, and I ask the High House to support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u5	Being forced to interpret your speech as a question... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ...I declare that an applicant may appear on behalf of all friends of this proposed decision. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 380, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 405 Members voted against - 7, with 9 abstentions. I state that the Sejm passed a law on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Minister!]] We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the governmental bill amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Poland. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 377. There are questions. The question is asked by Robert Winnicki from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This government project actually assumes tightening the criteria under which foreigners are accepted in Poland. And it is very good that this is happening, only - as we pointed out yesterday in the debate on this issue - that is not the essence of the problem. I here, from this speaker, will be like the Caton of Carthage: remind and expect a declaration. [[Something like that, really.]] Don't take immigrants. Just don't accept immigrants instead of playing technical and procedural issues. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u7	I understand, of course, that the Member asked the question: 'Will you accept an appeal under the title...?'. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mr Mieszkowski from the club It's also modern with a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say that the Polish Parliament should lean deeply on the fate of immigrants, over the fate of refugees. This isn't a joke. You cannot treat people who have lost their existential security in the same way as you do. It is unacceptable in the Polish Parliament to think that such information should come out of here. That's one thing. And it doesn't matter where the refugees come from, it's just that they have nowhere else to go. I ask: How are we supposed to think about this basic problem of our continent today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u9	Right. This is a very broad question. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mr Marian Zembala, the Civic Platform Club, is still asking. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Fellow Members! I would like to ask a question to remind all of you... Thank you for taking care of everything. Is Mr Winnicki, young, well-bred, well-maintained, with upbringing worse, but I do not rank... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Isn't the Decalogue, ladies and gentlemen, and what Pope Francis teaches us, as he reminds us, valid? I'm asking that each of us, in our conscience, get rid of each other, acting on a cross-party basis, acting over particular issues... I am convinced that the wisdom of the rulers will solve this. Mr President, I rarely understand you. I don't usually understand you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u11	Mr Winnicki, as corrected? [[Yes, sir.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Christian mercy is not false humanitarianism... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...this is not above all taking care of the whole world, instead of caring for your own people, for your own community. The order of love in Christendom assumes that first... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: This is not Christianity.]] ...we care about those closest to us, about family, about society, about our own people. [[He's right.]] The responsibility of politicians, especially politicians sitting in this room, is to take care of... [[The Lord God is very far away.]] ...about this nation, about this community. And letting immigrants in here, whose next generation will be bombing, as it is in the West... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: No, really.]] ...is foolishness and is against Christian mercy, responsibility, against everything that our civilization teaches us. [[That's not true.]] False humanity is not Christian mercy. Remember that once and for all. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Don't wave your hand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u13	The question is asked by Janusz Sanocki, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the Decalogue, I do not recall the commandment to accept immigrants, but I have a question for Mr Mieszkowski about how many immigrants he will accept into his own home. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u15	No, no, no... Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting, but I am informing Mr Sanocki first of all that the question can possibly be raised by the rapporteur or the representative of the government. Yes, sir. I do not recall Mr Mieszkowski being one of them. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 377 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Poland. I would add that during the discussion there was a discussion on understanding the concept of Christianity. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We return to the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on specific rules for the implementation of certain tasks in the field of computerization of the activities of tax administrations, customs services and tax control. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Isn't there any questions? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 395 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 161 Members voted against - 244, with 24 abstentions. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We refer to item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft act on ratification of the Agreement on Social Security between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Quebec, signed in Quebec on 3 June 2015. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no 337. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no 337 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. I state that the Sejm unanimously passed the Act on ratification of the Agreement on social security between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Quebec, signed in Quebec on 3 June 2015. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the revision of the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 402. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 402, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 428 and 1 Member voted against and 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 mins 20 hours 9 min 25]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question is asked by Zofia Czernow and Małgorzata Pępek, the Civic Platform Club, on the elimination of flood damage in 2016. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom because it's gonna be difficult to ask questions, so I'm asking you to stop talking, and move on to the cockroaches. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the municipalities and districts of Dolny Śląska, I ask you to answer the question: When will the local authorities receive information about the amount of financial resources for the resolution of flood damage this year? The concern arises from the fact that so far only a part of the municipalities and powiats have received promessies, and it is only for certain tasks. A large part of the municipalities did not receive any promenades, even though they were eligible for funding flood damage, e.g. the municipality of Wojciechów. Municipalities and districts have serious concerns, which end in 2016 with the deadline for the resolution of flood damage with state funding. A significant proportion of such investments have not yet been covered by promeses, e.g. the powiat Lwówecki or the municipality of Świerzawa. What's next with the funding of these tasks? The construction season has already begun. Please answer the questions: When will there be decisions determining the level of funding for the resolution of flood damage in 2016 for all municipalities and districts eligible for this? When will investments be co-financed, the deadline for implementation of which, according to the Ministry Regulation, ends in 2016? Mrs Margaret Navel will fill in the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u17	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Śląskie Voivodeship will receive PLN 18 million for boardwalks for local governments for the removal of flood damage. That's a lot less than in previous years. In comparison, some voivodships will get much more, even once more. The reduction in this pool is based on indicators which on the one hand assume the amount of proms already allocated and on the other hand, the amount of damage, but only in the last 3 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Such an algorithm does not guarantee the resolution of the need for flood effects from earlier years. And here I have a question for the Minister: Will the methods of calculating the amount of promes be analysed and amended by the Ministry to match them to the needs in this area? This is very important and extremely important. If we do not approach this in any other way, we will never remove the effects of the floods from previous years.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u19	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would first like to say that I hear unnecessary anxiety here in these questions, and I hope that the answer will calm the Members. In 2016 adopted by the Polish Sejm on 25 February 2016 in the special reserve under the name: Against the effects of natural disasters, financial resources of PLN 1 billion were included. It should be noted here that the previous government, the PO-PSL coalition, proposed in the draft budget law for 2016 the amount of this reserve of PLN 800 million. So our amendment made it 200 million more. This budget law adopted by the High House for 2016 containing higher than previously planned, as I said, measures for action related to disaster response enabled the granting of significant, although of course too small in relation to needs, but significant assistance to local government units, including Lower Silesia or Silesia. This year's funding is mainly devoted to flood protection projects of the rivers Oder and Vistula, reconstruction of municipal infrastructure of local authorities, tasks related to countering the effects of landslides movements and removing them, protection of Less gorges and reconstruction of flood infrastructure. These are the types of expenditure that are financed from this reserve. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as the President of the Republic of Poland signed the 2016 Budget Act on 3 March 2016, the planned expenditure and the planned actions were determined. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration also approved on the same day on 3 March the plan for the allocation of the special reserve: Anti-action and elimination of the effects of natural disasters, of which he is the authorising officer. Given the increased resources of the special-purpose reserve and the lines of expenditure already planned, the voivodships were required to urgently analyse the main needs for the elimination of damage to local infrastructure and to present proposals for specific tasks to be carried out this year. Within the limits allocated, individual voivodships, acting in agreement with local governments, proposed lists of priority tasks to be carried out this year together with the expected subsidies from the state budget. In view of the above actions taken since the beginning of April local governments in individual voivodships, including the local governments of the voivodships referred to by the Members, receive information about the financial assistance granted for the current year to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. In 2016, the special reserve of the State budget for the prevention and disposal of natural disasters, as planned, for local government units to carry out the tasks reported as the most urgent to carry out the renovation or reconstruction of the municipal infrastructure destroyed as a result of natural disasters, amounted to PLN 150 million. The procedure for granting budgetary aid to self-government units has not changed since last year, that is, honourable Members, the same algorithm that was used in previous years under the PO-PSL regime. [[Then why do we have less?]] Reported by... Of course, it can be discussed about its change, but for this year it has been applied in the unchanged formula. The objects reported by the voivodships were damaged or destroyed in previous years by natural disasters occurring throughout the country. In accordance with approved on 16 March this year. by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the distribution of funds to local government units from the area of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship was allocated - because here at the beginning there was a question about Dolny Śląsk - the amount of PLN 31 million. With regard to the amount and the Silesian voivodeship that you referred to, I must check whether it really is. Of course, I have all the attachments, I have details if necessary. In calculating the amount above, account was taken of the losses incurred in the voivodships in the years 2010 to 2015 and the sum of the subsidies already received in previous years. Here's one sentence of comment. If any of the voivodships had more funding in previous years, it could happen that they now receive less funding, and that is also understandable, within this algorithm and those criteria that I invoke. Dolnośląskie Voivodeship - here may I focus on Dolny Śląsk because the question previously addressed mainly concerned this voivodeship - Mr Paweł Hreniak asked the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration to grant funding for 46 local government units, 12 powiats and 34 local districts from the voivodship for a total of 49 tasks for a total amount of PLN 31 million. Following an analysis of the documents submitted and a finding of compliance of the notification with the requirements described in the current guidelines of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration on the principles and modalities of granting special-purpose grants to local government units from the State budget for the financing of their own tasks related to the renovation and reconstruction of construction works destroyed or damaged as a result of natural disaster events, including the prevention of the effects of such events in the future - that is the long name of these guidelines - the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration 4 April this year. signed 46 promes for the requested by the Voivode of Lower Silesian units to carry out the tasks indicated in the requested request. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Also... If I may, Your Marshal, I would have finished, because I haven't had a lot of content left, and I think this is very important information for the ladies who are asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u21	There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: In addition, four local government units from the Lower Silesian Voivodeship received an amount of over PLN 5 million for reconstruction of flood and municipal infrastructure related to the stabilisation of landslides. Copies of the promes were sent by e-mail to the beneficiaries, and the originals will soon be handed over to representatives of local governments by the Lower Silesian Voivodeship and probably other voivodships. But the decisions are made, the promenades are signed, this case is over. In conclusion, it should be noted that the decisions determining the level of funding for the resolution of flood damage in 2016 were taken and that the local authorities received information on the amount of financial resources for the resolution of flood damage in this year. This process has continued in recent days, so perhaps at the moment when you have received such a question, someone may not know anything yet, but now, on the day when we are discussing it, all decisions are made, the messages are signed. Shortly, as far as Silesia is concerned, it is actually PLN 18 million, of which for flood infrastructure - PLN 7 million, for landslips, within this amount - PLN 2807 thousand. zł. All detailed lists of investment tasks from both voivodships I am able to present to the ladies in a moment, either in speeches, if your marshal permits, or in writing, which may simplify the whole matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Do you still want to add a question? [[Please.]] Please, Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u22	Minister! But I'm having second thoughts. If the procedure doesn't change, why did the Silesian get less? These needs are much greater and we cannot suggest ourselves with an algorithm because these investments need to be made, because if we do not, we will still have to do so. The special reserve for the prevention and eradication of natural disasters this year is PLN 1 billion, and you confirmed it, but the local authorities indicate that probably more than half of this amount has already been reserved. How do you plan on removing flood damage from the years behind? I'm asking you to answer me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u23	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u24	I just wanted to fill in the blanks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u25	Oh, I'm sorry. But time is very little.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u26	I know. The point is that, according to the regulation, the deadline for the implementation of flood tasks ends this year. What's gonna happen to these assignments? Not everything has been removed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u27	Thank you very much. You answer Minister Jarosław Zieliński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Messengers, I'll remind you again. There was 800 million PLN in the draft budget that your government prepared for us. We've increased it by 200 million. This is still not enough, but it is 1 billion PLN, in which we need to divide into the most urgent investments. We took into account the voivodship reports according to the hierarchy drawn up by them in agreement with local governments according to the same algorithm It's the same thing in the past years. That's what I'm saying again, because it's important information. Of course, investment tasks that will not be completed this year must continue. We have more years ahead of us and, I hope, a budget that will allow us to finance these unfinished investment tasks in the coming years. We won't do anything in one year. This is the first step under our rule. There's a continuation of what was before. There's actually a lot of need. However, if there is a better idea for a more optimal algorithm next year, we are open to such a discussion. Of course, I'm asking you to make a proposal. There was no PLN 1 billion within this amount, which is, I repeat, increased, but too small in relation to needs, also due to the time that was already running... I understand it in this way that the new government had little time to prepare the whole concept again. We had to, so to speak, address certain issues as part of the continuation, but of course, after the re-recognition by the voivods and by the ministry of this hierarchy of needs, because it was done. The Voivodeships, I remind you, following the presentation of the algorithm principles, have re-published these priority lists and they have been taken into account. The Ministry did not make these changes. Of course, it was not enough for everything, but it was the voivodships within the limits that they had learned before that they placed in agreement with the local authorities at the top of the lists of investments they submitted, which were to be co-financed in the first place. Detailed lists of investment tasks from both voivodships will be presented to the Members so that you can have a full review. Maybe I will only correct here, because before I said 18 million PLN for the Silesian Voivodeship, but also for the landslide - 2807 thousand. zł plus 7 million zł still from flood-proof infrastructure, which is more together. This is not only the amount of PLN 18 million, this is about PLN 18 million plus these amounts. It's for corrigendum. Ladies and gentlemen, that's all I can say at this stage. It seems to me that this year we will achieve significant results within the framework of this co-financing and these funds, or PLN 1 billion, and that we will already quietly plan investment activities with budget support in cooperation with local authorities for 2017 and later. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question about a decreasing number of doctors, including rheumatologists, and public clinics, especially in areas remote from large centres, is the example of: Mr Kopcińska, Mr Bartus and Mr Szlachetka, Members of the Gorlicki delegation, are asked by Mr Kopcińska, Mr Bartus and Mr Jarosław Szlachetka, the Law and Justice Club. It is addressed to the Minister of Health. The first question you ask is Joanna Kopcińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u30	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, A lot has been said recently about rheumatic diseases that affect not only older people but also young people and children. Inflammatory rheumatic diseases include those in which the joints are destroyed as a result of chronic inflammatory processes in these structures. Treatment of these diseases is aimed at preventing and controlling joint damage, preventing loss of joint function, eliminating or reducing pain, seeking to achieve complete remission of the disease and, as a result, stopping disability and improving the quality of life of the patient. It is worrying that the number of public rheumatology clinics is decreasing. In 2010, according to the information we reached, there were about 928 clinics in all voivodships, today there are about 695, and that means that over 230 clinics disappeared over 5 years. Therefore, we ask the Minister whether he sees a risk associated with a small number of rheumatologists and public rheumatology institutions disappearing. Does this situation not translate negatively into early diagnosis of patients and thus, the implementation of treatment in the so-called. a therapeutic window that can have better effects for the patient?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u31	Rheumaological diseases also affect the youngest group of patients, i.e. children. Therefore, I would like to ask you whether, in your opinion, the current number of children's rheumatologists is sufficient and whether it ensures the safety of the treatment of already ill and treating children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u32	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Piotr Warczyński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u33	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, Touching the problem of rheumatology, rheumatologists and rheumatology clinics, you have touched a very important problem of the number of doctors in Poland. As far as rheumatologists are concerned, we know that there are not enough of them at the moment. The consequence of a small number of rheumatologists is, of course, a reduction in the number of rheumatology clinics, because in these clinics specialists must take them. This problem concerns not only rheumatology, but also at least a dozen other specialties. The Minister of Health has been... The predecessors of the current Minister of Health have also implemented certain measures to prevent the reduction of the number of doctors. However, as we look at the process of education, starting with medical studies that last six years, one year of internship, or seven years, and a minimum of five years of specialization, the results are only visible after 12 years. That is why this problem will continue to function for several years. However, it is not so that at the moment the number of specialists in Poland is decreasing or the number of doctors in Poland is decreasing. We have a steady, slow, but steady increase in the number of doctors. When it comes to rheumatologists, it's similar. And now, in order to look comprehensively at the problems that you have signaled, you need to look at it from the very beginning, which is to start by analysing whether there is a real shortage of doctors and where these doctors are missing. I wanted to refer here to what is currently happening in the Ministry of Health, i.e. the development of maps of health needs, which show us two things, first of all two things, that is the state in which we really have in each voivodeship, in each county the structure of health protection, including medical personnel, and at the same time determining health needs, tell us in which direction we should make changes in these regions. The maps are now in an external consultation, they have been developed, so that by the end of April, final versions will be available in June, and I think we will then start a rather important discussion on what is changing in the regions. On the other hand, these maps provide information on how many doctors lack specialties in a given region. This will be very, very important information. But it's not like there's anything going on right now about the number of doctors, because I'm sure you've heard that right now, this year's medical college will be accepted by 20%. more students and that practically all medical university graduates currently have access to residents, i.e. they have the possibility to specialise in residential mode financed by the state budget. Of course, it is not that everyone has the specialty they want, and it also involves the fact that the Minister of Health, however, is trying to encourage specific specialisations in precisely those priority areas where specialists are most lacking. In conclusion, the number of doctors in Poland is not as small as is claimed in the media or as stated e.g. in this information, which came to us from the World Health Organization, in which it is claimed that in Poland there are 2,2 doctors out of 100,000. residents. If we count correctly and consider that there are 160,000 doctors in Poland at the moment and we have fewer than 38 million inhabitants, this factor is 4.3, and this is exactly the European average. So that at the moment the problem is not yet the number of doctors, and I hope it will not, because as I said, this number is growing all the time, while the problem is the age structure of doctors. That is why we need to take very intensive measures, which will reduce this age structure. But it's gonna be 20%. more students this year and in subsequent years, already this number will certainly be maintained, and perhaps [[♪ The bell ♪]] increased, because let us remember that new medical universities are also being created, and public, another one in Opole, and private ones, which will also educate more doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u34	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Barbara Bartus. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u35	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the end, you touched what I wanted to ask. Because I don't want to ask about rheumatologists exactly, because I know that geriatrics are really missing, but I'm talking about the age of doctors. Doctors will be less and less, and this affects especially such area as mine, at the end of Poland, far from large centres. I also had your resident's visit, which raises the fact that doctors are still going abroad, that they're going to study because they've established 75% the average national wage is very little for them, because they also have to pay for raising their qualifications, for specialisation, for traineeships that are in places far from their place of residence. And it's the problem that mostly concerns centers where doctors don't want to come. We've got great doctors, we've got Gorlice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A beautifully renovated hospital, but there may not be any doctors there in a minute. 'Cause even a resident doctor who decides to come to Gorlica, as a specialist, isn't gonna make any money either. I have an example of my friend the doctor who said I could say it. He runs the branch and has PLN 4480 gross salary, so it's not encouraging, and he also needs to raise his qualifications, he wants to raise it, but he does it all at his own expense. So here salaries are very important, and salaries are particularly low in places like mine. Is the Ministry preparing any changes in this area if...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u37	...it's about residents and specialist doctors, and are they going to be specially included in small centers like I say, like mine?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u38	Thank you very much, Member. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is actually another problem, although statistics say a little bit different, but I know that in small hospitals, especially in county hospitals, it is quite different. Because in large hospitals, in large urban centres, medical salaries are, at least from my point of view, good. Of course, this is never satisfactory, we are not the richest country in the European Union, so these salaries are not different. You were talking about the doctor's migration. I just got off the phone with representatives of the Supreme Medical Chamber. It's hard to investigate, because we still don't know exactly how many doctors are leaving, but according to the estimates of the General Medical Chamber at the moment, more doctors are coming back than they are leaving. So this process seems to have been inhibited, among others. because it seems that medical salaries are already at such a level, not everywhere of course, but in such large centres, that it requires careful decision to leave the country and start working in another country and in another environment. Medical salaries, as we know, depend on the employer and how much the employer earns, although of course this is a bad word in the health care system, which is - in short - the amount of the contract. And the amount of the contract depends on how much money we have in the system. Here's another discussion. Do we have enough money in the system? I'll say I don't think there should be more. But it is a matter of discussion whether we should put more into health care as citizens and as a state. Another problem, which is residence salaries. Of course, it's exactly the same here. This depends on our budget, but I would like to stress that most European Union countries do not pay doctors salaries for specialisation. Poland is one of the countries, but not mostly, one of the few countries that finance residential specialisations from the state budget. It's rare to talk about it, but it's a very, very big expense for a country that next year, as I remember correctly, will reach [[♪ The bell ♪]] PLN 1 billion. So it's really not a small amount of money, and I think as our budget gets bigger, it's also going to be bigger for resident doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the third question. The question is asked by MEPs Krzysztof Gadowski and Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, the Civic Platform Club, on the resolution programme for Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa SA - to the Minister of Energy. The first question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The restructuring process of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa already lasts several months. On 1 December 2015, the Management Board of the company as if it had agreed with the banks on the issue of preparing the restructuring scenario of the company. We know well that the main topic of whether such a pillar is the sale of assets of companies, namely Wałbrzyskie Zakłady Koxownicze Victoria, Koksownia Przyjaźń, Spółka Energetycznej Jastrzębie and Zakład Ciepłnicza w Jastrzębie-Zdrój. There are other properties to be sold this month. Minister, literally in the last few days there has been an open letter to parliamentarians from Silesia, a three-page letter in which trade unions demand that parliamentarians pay attention to this recovery programme so that the government changes its criteria here. The miners say that they have a concession in Krupinski by 2030, with coal reserves of 180 million tons. The company's technical and economic plan does not have any funds to cut this deposit for further work. Similarly happens on the movement of Hawks mine Borinia-Zofiówka-Jastrzębie. Therefore, Minister, I wanted to ask you: What is the final catalogue of entities of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa prepared for sale under this resolution program? Do we know the investors yet? What's the final capital arrangement for investors in this entity? What are the fates of KWK Krupinski? Is it true that there are rather strong discussions with an investor based on German capital? Perhaps, Minister, a social audit team should be involved in some way, which is conducting an audit today at Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, to respond. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the letter and the facts contained there? What about the Hawks movement? Here, too, there are no concrete answers to specific questions posed by miners. One last question. Are there any exemptions foreseen under this resolution programme that is prepared? If so, when and at what time? Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u42	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy by Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for bringing up the topic about Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. You, I think, know very well, especially the parliamentarians of the Śląskie voivodship, what is the situation related to prices, not only in the hard coal, energy, but also in the coke industry. At the beginning of the year, the situation in coke coal deteriorated dramatically, making the assumptions that were developed last year have to be corrected. I wanted to stress very strongly that when it comes to changes concerning, among others. capital strengthening through individual entities and assets which the Hawk Company has, which I am about to say, this has not changed. There is only intensive work and acceleration concerning the analysis of the individual assets of each mine. Work has been accelerated on the efficiency of using investment plans in individual mines and allocating individual roles to mines on the market. I would like to stress very strongly that the agreement that was concluded last year with the financial institutions... We know that this happened before the previous president's departure, giving financial institutions the opportunity to take the put option, which makes it very strong for financial institutions, individual banks. I won't speak from this place, but one bank has been very active since last year and has now strengthened its activity. I just want to emphasize very strongly that when we talk, among other things. about Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, it is good that we ask questions, but I would ask if you are in contact with people working there, with the social side, so that the social side does not raise unnecessary, hysterical questions, because this serves institutions that do not necessarily want the restructuring process to be carried out to take over the funds to be involved in investments in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. I am talking about this because we had a meeting with Minister Tchórzewski at Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa a month ago and it was clearly stated there, and I want it to sound strongly, there is no change of opinion, there is no intention for Krupiński to be taken over, bought by any entity with foreign, German capital. I do not know why this topic is permanently coming back, when Minister Tchórzewski and I personally, and President Rogala, and Mr Pawlin, responsible for production issues, we strongly emphasized that this topic is somehow still being invoked, and I must say that it was a meeting with all the trade unions, so every social side was represented at this meeting and this is merely the maintenance of this position from a month ago. I would like us not to go back to this, if anyone is calling this up, it is certainly not the position of the government and it is certainly not included in the restructuring plans of Jastrzębska Węglowa. On the other hand, in terms of the involvement of operators, tenders have been launched in recent weeks for the so-called. non-productive assets, i.e. holiday centers, hotels, etc., so that we can cash something that does not affect production in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, and indeed these measures can be very useful, although not enough, on investment plans. Currently, as you know, there is a social audit, among others. in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. Its task is to analyze investment plans and correct them, because we must, ladies and gentlemen, clearly, among others. in a hawk company, increase efficiency per employee. I would like to stress very strongly that not only in the case of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, when it comes to labour issues, it is not only a question of maintaining a Jastrzębska company, but also of securing employment matters. There's no layoffs in the plan. Of course, there are voluntary offers to leave, as is the case in the Coal Company or in Katowice Coal Holding on the occasion of the transfer of non-productive assets or one that does not directly affect the plans of individual mines. If the administration staff, although here we would look more at people who are not related to the bottom jobs, because we have a shortage of certain professions and certain employees... We would like these people from voluntary briefings to benefit from what the law gives us last year. This process is being carried out, but it is not a process of redundancies, and I want to emphasise this very strongly, and the social side has also been informed about this. On the other hand, with regard to the assets that come in or are being considered, you have raised the question, in fact they are JSW Koks SA, then the coking plant Victoria SA, the Energy Company Jastrzabie SA and PEC SA. I would like to say to you that, as far as the coke plant is concerned, we are planning for the Jastrzębska company to have a controlling stake, i.e. a minority package to be the assets that we would like to use for each entity to enter 49%. capital assets, so that these funds are then allocated to investments, while as far as PEC is concerned, we are actually considering the possibility of 100% the shares were taken over by district heating companies. And I would like to stress very strongly that entities that are involved in the entire restructuring process are entities related to the State Treasury, such as Polish Development Investments, Silesia Finance Society, Industrial Development Agency or, as has already been publicly stated, PGNiG Termika, which conducts the valuation process and at the same time involvement [[♪ The bell ♪]] funds in the popular Sej, i.e. in the Jastrzęb district heating company. One thing that has actually happened in recent times... If your marshal will allow it, one more minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u44	Or maybe we will finish the answer in the second part, because there is another question from Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, and you will then be able to answer everything at the same time. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Good.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As you rightly pointed out, the Jastrzębska Węglowa case is not only a case of Silesia, but also Wałbrzyskie Zakłady Koxownicze Victoria. Wałbrzyskie Zakłady Koksownicze since 2011 is part of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. They employ about 500 people and are a very important element of the Wałbrzych labour market. I would like to remind you that at the same time three mines were destroyed in Wałbrzych, and this is a city that was very painfully affected by the restructuring process. I would like to ask you how the issue of asset disinvestment will affect the future of Wałbrzych's activities, because, as I emphasized, this is a very important element of the Wałbrzych labour market and we simply cannot imagine that it could be in some bad way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] affect what's going on in this town.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u46	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer - to finish earlier and to answer this question as well. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u47	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, I share this concern about the Wałbrzych region, because it has indeed been severely affected by the restructuring process. Hence, in our plans Victoria is treated as an asset that is not to be deprived of control in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. As I mentioned earlier, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa is to have a majority stake, while I think that the new shareholder, which is to appear, will strengthen its position through its history and its place in the market, because the Industrial Development Agency is being considered. So if there is a shareholder who is to be the Industrial Development Agency next to Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, it will certainly strengthen Victoria's position on the market. I'm sure it won't affect her business position. On the other hand, which I also wanted to emphasise strongly, the situation on the coke market fell apart in a special way in January. This actually caused us to re-sit with the Management Board of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa to analyze the situation of sales and increase the sales markets for coal. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is a special thing, and I would also like to say that a really great effort has been made in the hawk company. Here, too, I always thank the social side for the September decision last year, when the social side on behalf of the workers expressed its willingness to suspend the so-called. Fourteens that are entered as a wage element as well as interference with barboring rights. This made this great effort to build the construction of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, because Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa would already be sold out. This made this recovery plan, which was prepared at the end of last year, and a lot of pressure on financial institutions... Because here it is, ladies and gentlemen, a special, special difficulty. On the one hand, we have a stock exchange company, and so even the provision of communications to social workers is subject to this threat that employees who also have shares have previously received information about certain plans to which they are entitled as employees, so we can be sued that other shareholders on the market have not received such information. It's kind of one thing. The second point is that there are talks with financial institutions that, for the previous board of directors, have been given enormous powers to de facto interfere if the business plan does not cling to detail. That is why we have been actively working since the beginning of the year on the review of investment. One thing I have to say to the current management board of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, ladies and gentlemen, is that in an extremely short time - this is also important and requires emphasis - of course, in contact with the social side it was effective. [[♪ The bell ♪]] increase extraction with a reduced number of people involved. So that we in the hawk company, in this huge crisis, are greatly increasing the efficiency of 1 t extraction. However, in the markets that we are analysing today, we will certainly have a difficult situation by 2016 and 2017, which is why it is important that we invest very precisely the funds that we will have from these projects, which I mentioned, i.e. by JSW Koks, by Victoria, through this whole system of district heating companies, so that we get more than 1 billion of the funds that we want from the involvement of the entities that I mentioned, into the capital of these companies fully involved in investment. And secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it really is such a big accent connected with employees, so as not to reduce staff, because we have such a situation, not only in the hawk company, that mining competitions...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u48	Minister, please proceed to the end. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: ...they're starting to be in deficit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Krzysztof Sitarski and Sylwester Chrusz from the Kukiz club15 on the planned liberalisation of trade between the European Union and the US in the TTIP agreement and possible opportunities and threats for selected sectors of the Polish economy, i.e. mining and energy and agri-food. This is a question to the President of the Council of Ministers, and will be answered under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Radosław Domagalski-Łabędzki. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For a long time there have been negotiations on a free trade agreement, TTIP. The transatlantic trade and investment partnership itself is also an opportunity and a threat to our country. The agreement negotiated between the United States and the European Union for a long time... Maybe at this point I will give examples based on specific countries. The United States has a developed total economy. In principle, the State could be self-sufficient, with a very well-developed expansion strategy for external markets. It is practically one partner and one political being. The European Union has a diversified economy, with a competitive economy but not complementary one. Practically 28 Member States, 28 socio-political interests. The ideas related to acceptance for TTIP are deregulation, investment boom and cooperation based on so-called. intellectual property rights. In addition, the US has its own energy resources and has radically lower energy prices. The largest food producer in the world is also the United States. Half the country's surface is agricultural land. The concentration of agricultural production and cheaper energy in the USA are also lower manufacturing costs and therefore lower prices. The question is: Does the Polish State have its representatives in the so-called. negotiating teams when it comes to TTIP terms? Another point: Are the provisions of the agreement on access to markets identical to those of the European Union and the United States? To what extent has the tariff proposal been revised and free trade between the US and the European Union been established? What Effects [[♪ The bell ♪]] tariff liberalisation in transatlantic trade is expected? And last question due to the end of time: Is there a provision for free export of gas and oil resources, since the rates in the United States are much lower than in the European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u50	Thank you very much. And I will ask for an answer from Minister Radosław Domagalski-Łabędzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u51	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Member for his interest in negotiating an agreement on a transatlantic trade and investment partnership between the European Union and the United States. The TTIP is a free trade agreement aimed at creating better conditions for the functioning of the two largest economies of the world by liberalising trade between the European Union and the United States. This liberalisation, if the agreement enters into force, will concern trade in goods, services and investment flows. Most general analyses indicate that the agreement will benefit the European Union and Poland in terms of growth in trade and GDP growth. For Poland, the projected GDP growth as a result of trade liberalisation resulting from TTIP over several years is estimated at 0,2%. , although there are also analyses which indicate that the benefits of GDP growth will be even greater, up to 0.5%. Export growth is on average around 30% - the increase in exports from Poland to the United States is about 30% - but we must remember that we are starting from a very low level, because direct exports from Poland to the United States are only 2,3% all of our exports. With regard to trade in goods, liberalisation will be implemented through the elimination of customs duties and so-called. non-tariff barriers. In accordance with the negotiating mandate, the main objective of the negotiations is to eliminate all customs duties, but for sensitive goods the mandate gives the possibility of special treatment and withdrawal from the principle of full liberalisation. During the negotiations, discussions on the liberalisation of trade in goods are conducted on the basis of tariff offers from parties where the European Union and the United States make proposals for liberalisation on their side and inform about expectations of the partners' proposals. So far, there have been two exchanges of offers. The last exchange took place in October last year. According to these offers, the reciprocal elimination of tariffs is expected to concern 97% tariff lines, including liberalisation on the date of entry into force of the Agreement, are foreseen for 87.5% products, tariff lines. For the others, transitional periods, up to a maximum of 10 years after the entry into force of the Agreement, and incomplete liberalisation shall be considered. Further negotiations will lead to a narrow list of goods. Directly referring to the question raised in relation to the mining and energy sector, it should be noted that, as regards import duties, TTIP remains, as a general rule, neutral because the current duty rates are zero for energy raw materials, including coal, gas or oil. At the same time, TTIP offers an opportunity to improve access to American shale gas. Today, regulatory barriers on the US market restrict or prevent gas exports, which are much cheaper than in Europe. And here an important note: Poland's position is to include a separate chapter devoted to energy issues. It is known that the United States prefers those partners who are covered by zones or free trade agreements. We want an appropriate record, also concerning access to energy carriers such as gas, to be expressis verbis expressed in these records, although this is the subject of negotiations that are ongoing. Overall, removing these barriers and importing gas would improve the competitiveness of energy-intensive sectors in Europe, including Poland. An example of such an energy-intensive sector in Poland is the chemical sector, where energy costs represent more than 60% of production costs for certain goods. Today, these differences in gas prices between the United States and the EU countries give a significant competitive advantage to US operators. Therefore, the European Union, at the request of Poland, treats the chemical sector as sensitive in the negotiations and this is the position presented by our team at the Commission. As far as the agri-food sector is concerned - and here the Member pointed out the characteristics of the American industry - it is true that there is a competitive advantage on the part of American producers in certain agricultural sectors, in the case of meat or cereals, there is indeed a powerful effect on a scale, which gives them a significant competitive advantage. Therefore, full liberalisation on the part of the European Union would most likely adversely affect the situation of agricultural producers, including of course in Poland. In addition, the level of customs protection in the European Union is significantly higher than in the United States, resulting in more benefits for the US side in the event of full liberalisation. Therefore, goods from the agricultural sector are considered particularly sensitive in TTIP negotiations. The outcome of the negotiations in this sector should take into account the possibility of partially excluding the most sensitive goods from the liberalisation of trade with the USA in the form of the application of tariff quotas or their total exclusion from liberalisation. Current status of tariff liberalisation negotiations [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the agricultural sector it largely fulfils these conditions. In addition, we aim to ensure that the TTIP agreement is equipped with an effective safeguard clause to protect markets in a situation of imbalance with excessive imports...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u52	Minister, why don't we finish the answer after the next question, you'll have time for the full answer. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Radosław Domagalski-Łabędzki: Good. I ask you very much, sir, for an additional question, and we will ask you in a moment to fully answer all the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There's another question about agriculture. There is a different approach to sanitary, phytosanitary or genetically modified plants, so will the United States accept EU standards in this respect, which are more restrictive than in the United States? How much is the increase in the percentage of Polish foreign trade directly with the United States estimated? Is this the way it is supposed to be? I would also ask that the influence of TTIP on trade agreements concluded by Poland with countries not members of the European Union be characterised. In addition, will the interests of Polish beef, pork and poultry producers be secured during negotiations on contracts? Do the Polish representatives in the negotiations know the difference in cost of food production in the US and European standards? However, the current information on the negotiations gives rise to [[♪ The bell ♪]] concerns about the influx of lower safety and quality food in the EU market for American food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u54	Thank you very much. Minister, please complete the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u55	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! As regards safety, please bear in mind that the TTIP generally concerns the sphere of trade, trade, while the safety sphere, food standards remain the responsibility of the Member States. And nothing changes in this respect. We'll use our security procedures. Generally, European Union countries are reluctant to GMOs and will apply their own safety standards and procedures. With regard to the impact of TTIP or the potential ratification by Poland of accession to TTIP and the effects on third countries, the expected effect of accession to TTIP is to increase the competitiveness of the Polish economy as well. So in this respect, we expect Polish companies to be more competitive with third-country litters. Just remind me the third question that... [[They were practically exhausted.]] Okay, well, thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń on the current situation in the area related to the implementation of the CEPiK 2.0 system to the Minister for Digitalisation. Mr Piotr Woźny corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u57	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We know that the CEPiK system is a model example of failure when it comes to the implementation of information technology in the state administration, so that I would very much ask the Minister to characterize at the beginning the state in which this project was taken over, what progress was there. From the information we have, we know that this project has also gained some wind in the sails, and today it looks much better, but I would also ask that the Minister be polite to characterize the state of progress we have on this system today - and on the legislative side, the issue of further legislation, but also on the technical side, in terms of work related to interfaces or the course of business processes. Is this information available to potential users who will supply and use the database? If this has not yet been made available, then when will this be made available, because we know that there were problems and the previous team underestimated the time that is needed for the proper and effective implementation of these procedures on the end-user side. I also wanted to ask: Do you cooperate at this stage with the institutions that provide solutions to these end-users? Previously, it was enough to say, unwelcome, but these end users seem to know what this case looks like and how to do it effectively. When you start powering the vocabulary information, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are the basis of the activities also of the CEPiK? And this general question: Is there a risk that this CEPiK will not start on January 1, or is there a risk that some part of the system will be postponed?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u58	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal! Membership! Thank you so much for your interest in the case. Mr President, I think you know, I think this is the subject of... I would really appreciate a separate committee on this matter, a committee meeting, because, with all due respect to the Member, it is very difficult to exhaust this subject, which you are interested in, in the form of parliamentary questions. I mean, I'll say it like that. We inherited this project in the state, I would say, such an operational-intellectual disintegration, etc., because due to the upcoming elections, due to the fact that it is there in general, as you know very well, how many actors of this process and probably problems with the construction of this system result from the fact that it is a system that must integrate the functionality of the central base, for which the Central Information Centre under the Ministry of Digitalization, with the local databases, with the IT systems: the vehicle and the driver, which are being conducted, which are operating at the level of the district Old Towns, i.e. about 400 centers, as well as institutions which are called not Probably the whole difficulty of this process is that the Central Information Technology Center is responsible for creating parts of the software, it creates a central base in this process, while part of the software is responsible for the Polish Security Printing Works, which manufactures IT systems supporting its operation and handling processes both by starosts and by voivodship road traffic centres and driver training centres. And now what have we done from the beginning? What have we done? We have been the business owners of this project since the beginning of January. What have we done in this process? We've led to something that... It seems that it is impossible that this was not the case - there was no agreement between the Ministry running the project and the Polish Securities Printing Works. We have agreed on the content of this agreement from the Minister of Digitization. It was signed and sent to the Polish Security Printing Works for signature. I have information that the whole set of parishes has passed, getting all the necessary parishes and is in the pre-signation stage by the board members. Why is this such an important agreement? Because this agreement contains a detailed 37-point timetable in which the retail issues that you are asking for are answered. So we have, we have created a functional framework, I would say, we are the two main actors of this process, i.e. the Minister of Digitization and PWPW are agreed on how to work together. That's the dimension, I'd say, the organizational dimension, which is the setting of this process. Then we have a legislative dimension, because we must remember that the law amending and deferring the entry into force of the CEPiK provides for the adoption of 39 implementing regulations. Four of them are optional, while 35 of these regulations are mandatory. 30 of them are issued by the Minister of Digitization, five of which are issued by the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. We started by agreeing with the Polish Securities Printing Works, which are the most important of these regulations. We agreed on a group of eight regulations, such as that which had to be adopted, so that there would be no interference with the fact that we did not have certain regulations agreed, e.g. programming work may be stopped or hindered. And this group of eight regulations has been... I mean, for today, of the 30 mandatory for the minister of digitalization, we already have 13 released. The remaining 17 are under intense work, which are generally at different stages, etc. Let me put it this way: we're monitoring this process, and we have this feeling that we know where it is that thing that... That's probably why I thank you so much for this question, because these kind of questions make you wonder what you haven't done yet. The practical consequence is that we will contact the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction to ask where they are with their remaining five regulations so that all this will happen at the same time. So this is the legislative dimension. Dimension of communication with system users, which I think is at all, looking at how the system of state registers and application was implemented: source of... I do not know if you know the fate, so to speak, the service bases of the civil status office and the history of how, so to speak, the service of interested persons in civil status offices has improved. We have, so to speak, the whole lesson, a whole bunch of practical tips on how to not carry out IT projects involving users on the part of local government officials. So the moment we are at the moment, integration tests are held between the Polish Security Printing Works and the Central Information Technology Centre. In the process schedule we have planned, between August and October, we provide for tests, in the test environment, to carry out piloting with the participation of both district and voivodship centres and drivers' improvement centres. So, let's say, we have this process planned to give all users a chance to check how it works, work, and exchange their comments with them. We think we should have enough time. Next week, we go with a wide delegation from the Ministry of Digital Affairs and the Central Information Centre - the old people's community every six months organizes such conferences, which are attended by people who take care of this topic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - to talk about the moment we're here. We care about communication with the social side, because we are not building this system for ourselves, we are building it for users, for citizens, so that they are ultimately comfortable. Well, I'd say I've discussed the organisational dimension, the legislative dimension, the test dimension as much as I can. I don't know how much I can...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u60	Excuse me, Minister. Will the Member have an additional question? [[Yes.]] Well, maybe an additional question, and then the Minister will finish it in the next part.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u61	Minister, I must say that I listened very carefully to what you said. I also congratulate you very well, I think, on your approach to this matter. I know what it looked like before, so I can see that the difference is significant. And it seems... Exactly, Minister: Is there a danger that from 1 January 2017 the entire project or part of it will be postponed, postponed in time? The second thing I wanted to ask is the practical dimension more, because the new CEPiK does not involve the introduction of electronic communication between the dictionaries' power providers. We know that it was during previous IT projects that caused problems. In the case of this project, this will result in citizens' trips from one office to another in order to improve this. On the other hand, the possibility of communication, the introduction of the possibility of electronic communication between users in vocabularies [[♪ The bell ♪]] it could solve these issues. Is this in any way considered? I have a few more questions, but I'm not gonna strain your marshal's patience anymore. So that I may simply address the question to you and ask you to answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u62	There's one thing I really missed. Let me put it this way: for today we believe that the implementation of this project is not at risk and that we are able to implement it by the end of the year. We will monitor this situation. Please, let me put it this way, about careful interest and about the breath of the legislative authority on the neck of the executive authority, because it disciplines and stimulates to keep time. The only element that seems to be important from the point of view of the functioning of the state as a whole, or perhaps not so important from the point of view of the interests of the vast majority of users. Well, we have meetings with the Internal Security Agency about the classified component in this project. Today we have an agreed component that is satisfactory from the service point of view, but it is not something that would be, I would say, a dream solution that would like to be applied. This is an undisclosed element which is irrelevant from the point of view of the broad social masses and users of this system. So in this part, let's call it civil, useful, it seems there are no risks to this process, but if there were any, we would certainly return to you and inform you about the reasons why this is happening. On the dictionary issue that you mention, I forgot about one very important element. That's history too. whether the question which seems to be trivial, but which I found in the unsolved ministry - just the question of dictionary. It's pretty famous from the media. It's probably hard to imagine, but at the level of the solutions currently in operation there is no single dictionary of car brands that are entered into registrations. Since 2013, any standardization of these names has been discontinued, so therefore, I do not know, the name Renault is entered in 650 different varieties into registration documents. We practically have an agreement with the Institute of Automotive Transport, which is the owner of such a dictionary database. It is a very professional institution that is living with the fact that it collects catalogs of car brands and provides this type of dictionary device. From the CepiK special-purpose fund we have allocated about PLN 2 million to the purchase of such a dictionary, which will be one of the most important elements of this system. So that there is the Auto Transport Institute and its dictionary base, which will power this system and cause that at the central base level there will be a dictionary of brands, types of cars, etc. This is one of the elements of this process. On the other hand, the question of the electronicisation of access to this system - I assume that the Member [[♪ The bell ♪]] follow the ePUAP administration battles, generally with the platform, with the PUE ZUS, and what we have been doing recently with regard to the possibility of submitting applications via the banking channel for 500+ needs. We hope that by the end of the year we will also deal with ePUAP issues and not only will we create a central application for registration of cars as of 1 January 2017, but we will also give citizens the opportunity to communicate electronically with the administration for the purposes of carrying out these transactions with the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u63	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much, Minister.]] The next question will be asked by Members Kazimierz Starzdowski and Jerzy Gosiewski, the Law and Justice Club, on the rescue of the Białowieża Forest in the context of the negligence and consequences of the wrong decisions of environmental ministers in the years 2008 to 2015. The question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Nebula. The first question will be asked by Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski. [[I'm sorry, Jerzy Antoni Gosievski.]] The other way around, yeah. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u64	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On 15 March 2016, during the visit of the Białowieża Forest, we discovered the catastrophic state of its stands and entire forest ecosystems. The scale of negligence and the consequences of the error of environmental ministers' decisions in 2008 and 2015 is enormous. During this period, the principle of universal forest protection was not applied throughout the wilderness, especially in the economic forests, because pests are wreaking havoc and the wrong decisions of environmental ministers prevented the proper performance of the tasks of the Forest Service. Forest sustainability is particularly at risk. The material losses are enormous. The saddles are ruining themselves. Contrary to the rules in force, ministers were under pressure from a number of backgrounds, including those of scientists who have drawn wrong conclusions, narrowing their interests to very narrow issues. The forest ecosystem is not only a single species that one likes more, another less, but a whole series of populations of countless species of plants and animals, from which part is still to be discovered. Environmental ministers have approved misguided plans for forest equipment for the forest. There was an unjustified ban on the felling of settled trees. So they refused to protect the wilderness. The fight against forest pests, including mostly a printer pest, was not allowed. The drying trees pose a fire hazard. Standing next to dying trees are very dangerous to the health and life of people in the wilderness. The current view of the forests of the Białowieża Forest is terrifying. The most important task at the moment is to join the rescue of the Białowieża Forest by removing from the forest all inhabited spruce and not only spruce, because other species of trees are also attacked here by these and other pests. Minister, what are you going to do to save the Bialowieza Forest? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are you going to do to save the Białowieża Forest and to explain the causes of negligence and to draw consequences against the guilty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u65	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The current state of fact, the current state of the Białowieża Forest results, unfortunately, from the wrong economic decisions from 2008 to 2015 which led to the epidemic, so to speak, many tree diseases in the Białowieża Forest covered by various forms of nature conservation, ranging from the Natura 2000 network to the UNESCO heritage. The result of these decisions, as you said, is the freezing of many millions of forest species with a mass, a volume of more than 3.7 million m3 and an estimated value of more than 700 million PLN. But here maybe the most important thing is that this has resulted in the degradation of Natura 2000 habitats, priority habitats valuable to the European Community, which will most likely result in Poland being placed before the European Court of Justice. The present state of the Białowieża Forest from the social side caused very much concern of the hosts in this area, that is, the local population who used and shaped these resources for many centuries, as evidenced by the sentiment on one of the tombstones of a more than 100-year-old woman who died in 2010. I quote: This forest I planted. In the ongoing consultations with both the European Commission and UNESCO, a full inventory of the resulting losses has been launched with regard to habitats and species important for the Community, employing dozens of specialists. Rescue treatments and methods for the objective assessment of these treatments have been proposed through continuous monitoring of the status of habitats and the presence of species important for the European Community. All data, including all opinions, are and will be posted on the website of the Ministry of Environment. They are also sent to the available media in Poland and around the world asking for participation in the discussion. The whole world should learn the objective truth about the Białowieża Forest and cultural and natural heritage of the local population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u67	And another additional question, this time I ask Mr Kazimierz Starowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The material losses in the wilderness are enormous. Environmental losses are irreversible. The guilty must be held accountable so that a similar story will not be repeated in the future. The local population suffers most as a result of the devastation of the wilderness, which their ancestors nursed with the simultaneous use of its goods. The local population should be here in particular treated as a priority because it was her ancestors who left us a forest that was and should be a glory for us Poles. As a result of the wrong decisions of environmental ministers, the local population was reduced in different ways in 2008 and 2015 because it did not count on it. Companies began to fall, the local population was poor. Minister, how does the government intend to help the local population access the forests of the Białowieża Forest? Are there any aid schemes planned for local and local authorities to offset lost income for nature conservation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u69	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u70	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! In view of what you said to dispel certain myths grown around the Białowieża Forest, as well as to present comprehensive data from research on the Białowieża Forest: such comprehensive data from the research so far is not available. The data is clipping, narrowly specialized. Therefore, on 25 March 2016, the Minister of the Environment and the General Director of State Forests signed the programme for the Białowieża Forest as a cultural and natural heritage of UNESCO and the Natura 2000 network area. This programme consists of two parts. The first part includes gathering and making available to the public full documentation, all legal acts, press articles, letters in the Ministry of Environment and the Directorate-General of State Forests concerning the Białowieża Forest. The second part is a research and monitoring programme funded by the State Forests, one of which is to designate a third of the area of forest soundtracks which will be left without any human interference. The rest should be immediately repaired, i.e. to complete restoration of natural habitats. This action will show how to protect the forest: whether it is better to leave it to itself or whether it is necessary to act by means of active nature conservation methods. The main objective of this programme, which begins in the Białowieża Forest, is to protect habitats, to reconstruct these habitats, to save those habitats and species associated with these habitats, and to prioritise the European Union. Taking active action to protect the Białowieża Forest with methods of forest management will restore the fuller human activity in these areas, will affect jobs. The adopted research programme also creates these places, will show the whole cross-section of activities, and, as I said, will have an impact on both jobs and improving the situation of the local community, as well as on the availability of basic material in these areas, i.e. firewood for areas [[♪ The bell ♪]] unurbanized, outlanded. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u71	Thank you very much. Another question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron from the Law and Justice Club on the ability of religious unions to acquire land in accordance with the Law on the Stopping Sale of Property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws protecting Polish land from mass redemption by foreigners. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, and will be answered by the Undersecretary, sorry, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Mr Zbigniew Babalski. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u72	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Sejm adopted an important and necessary law on halting the sale of agricultural property of the Treasury and amending certain laws protecting Polish land from mass buy-out by foreigners. It is a law that uses similar solutions that have been applied in other countries of the European Union. However, its regulations had to be strict and quite restrictive, as the previous rules could have been avoided, e.g. by subposing the so-called. poles, which could lead to speculative land trading. One of the amendments adopted to the Land Trading Act assumes that religious unions and churches retain the right to acquire agricultural property, which raises some doubts, as this is an exception to the principle in the Law that only an individual farmer may be a buyer of agricultural real estate. At this point the question arises: Are we not going to have to deal with an exception, which to some extent is a widespread system? In my opinion, the matter requires a closer and deeper explanation, so I ask the Minister for a clear position of the government in this controversial matter. What is the purpose and purpose of such regulations in the Act, and what may the consequences be? I think this will help to address some concerns about the solutions adopted. Since I will not ask the second question, I will just add this: Do you see the Minister's threat that there may be such relationships as might be created to exploit the possibility of land trafficking, and does the Ministry provide for some information programme for farmers in connection with the entry into force of the Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u73	Thank you very much. Minister, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, To answer your question, it should be made clear that the provisions of the Act of 31 March 2016 on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws - and I would like to stress this very clearly - do not in any way favour any Church or Church or union, including the Catholic Church. We have accepted the general principle that this applies to all churches and religious unions. This requires that the acquisition of agricultural property without the need - and here is also an important element of this response - to obtain the approval of the President of the Agricultural Property Agency applies equally to all churches and religious associations operating in accordance with the law in force in the Republic of Poland, and not only, because here is the most emotional, in relation to the Catholic Church. Again, there is no special exception here. It seems to me that it is also necessary to clarify the matter that today in Poland, in the Republic of Poland it concerns 15 churches and religious unions, whose legal status is regulated by a separate law, while more than 160 churches and religious unions operating under the 1989 Law on the Guarantees of Freedom of Conscience and Religion are subject to completely different legal regulations. The register of such churches and religious unions - as you also asked - is led by the competent minister for religious denominations and national and ethnic minorities. That competent minister shall be the Minister of the Interior and Administration. This register is widely available, you can simply see on websites which associations and churches in this number 160 are located. But this law, which I referred to, from 1989, also states that not every application for registration of a religious union from a vending machine is accepted and positively considered, and there is another religious union. This is a detailed regulation that I will not focus on at this point, but I want to show that it does not work automatically, on the principle that it is enough to submit an application and there is a registered religious union. I'm going back to our bill. Regulation referred to in Article. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 3 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h) d The laws on the shaping of the agricultural system aim in particular - and this is also the answer to the question you asked, because there were several questions, in one question there were some threads raised - allowing the transfer of agricultural property by the faithful to their churches. I want to make this very clear. In an ageing society, lonely people who have small areas of land often remain in rural areas. Most often these are - we have prepared such statistics - areas from 1 ha to 2 These people are alone, so we want to give them the opportunity to either sell out or rewrite it to any Church or relationship that is closest to them. For what? For life's care, for example. Such cases are today, they exist, most often they concern monasteries, not churches. The contract can be concluded in the form of life sentence, donation, will, and most often in such contracts there is a clause: in exchange for care. It should also be noted that, in the event of a transfer of agricultural property to an ecclesiastical legal person or a religious union - note - the Agricultural Property Agency will enjoy the right of first purchase in the case of sale and, in other cases, the right of acquisition. The Agency will have the same power as for any other operator operating on the agricultural land market. The granting of these powers to the Agency is intended to ensure that there is no excessive concentration of agricultural land. The right of first purchase and acquisition will not be granted to the agency - attention - only if the transfer of agricultural property takes place between the Churches. This clause is also included in the Act concerning loved ones. The agency doesn't have the right to interfere. If there's an attempt to go outside with such a property, then the agency will have the right to intervene. [[♪ The bell ♪]] taking over these land at market price, giving this land - because we are talking about stopping sales - in lease to individual farmers. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, the Law and Justice Club, and the question is about the possibility of changing the list of basic products in the National Railway Program and restoring line 143 Kluczbork - Wroclaw Mikołajów, especially in the section Kluczbork - Namysłów - Oleśnica. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Mr Piotr Stomma will answer. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u76	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In February this year, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Construction Mr Piotr Stomma, present here, informed - he wrote about this, among others. The railway market portal - that the national railway programme requires in-depth analysis. I would therefore like to ask whether this procedure can result in changes in the list of basic projects. I am specifically asking about the railway line 143 Kluczbork - Wroclaw Mikołajów, especially the section Kluczbork - Namysłów - Oleśnica, which was originally on the list of basic projects, and then the decision of the previous government was moved to the list of reserve projects. For my region it is a strategic line in economic and social terms, and its current state of both these development potentials is blocking. Minister, will the inhabitants of the Klukborski and Namysłowski districts on the side of the Opole Voivodeship and Oleśnicki district on the side of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship have long-awaited renovation, modernisation of this railway line, or will there be funds for its renovation and will it be guaranteed to be re-financed in the form of a return to the list of basic projects? I would like to remind you that the renovation of railway line 143 on section Wroclaw Mikołajów - Kluczbork was originally included in the first versions of territorial contracts for the Opolskie voivodship and the Lower Silesian voivodship. During numerous press conferences, the former Prime Minister and former Minister Wasiak have repeatedly declared that the renovation on this railway section will be carried out as part of the ongoing maintenance work. I would like to point out that this is far too little. This investment, as I mentioned, was on the list of basic projects. Finally, the national railway programme, adopted by the government on 15 September 2015, on the section "Kluczbork - Oleśnica - Wroclaw" (Kluczbork - Oleśnica - Wroclaw) was included in the list of reserve projects.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u77	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction is working on updating the National Railway Programme. This is an action necessary to ensure further financing of projects from an EU perspective In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) to (d) of At the same time, this is an act resulting from the need to adapt the provisions of this document to the actual state of play in terms of the state and development of the railway infrastructure, both in terms of its management and its financing. A number of months have passed since the adoption of the National Railway Programme, and we know that these assumptions have not been proven in practice, and that is why they need to be. Furthermore, I would like to stress that we are facing the situation of taking into account the priorities of the current government and, above all, I would say, its parliamentary base. There are many far-reaching proposals with a significant financial dimension. This requires a lot of attention and moderation of possibilities and in terms of material, and financial terms. Therefore, the KPK verification process is not trivial or one-factorial. It should be stressed that we are counting on the effect that, in cooperation with Parliament too, we will be able to achieve new opportunities for optimal implementation, which is optimal in terms of time, of investment from the point of view of railway projects. Of course, much will weigh the state of preparation of the investment. After this substantive analytical phase, the legislative process, including public consultation, will have to be launched. And here we will pay great attention to this action. We understand that this is the expectation. In order to approximate this need for verification of the National Railway Programme, I would like to mention the problem of the completion of the co-financing or the possibility of financing unfinished projects in the period 2007-2013, so-called. Phased projects. Here the European Commission has imposed very specific requirements on us. This agreement of the Commission is conditional, so we must pay great attention to the fulfilment of these conditions. At the moment, we also have contracts for granting grants under the first selection of the CEF. It also kind of changes the whole context in which the national railway programme functions. We have a problem with the proposals submitted in the second CEF competition, it is simply not yet known the position of the Commission, which projects will find recognition. I am talking about rail projects and not only that, but also this framework will depend on it. There is a question of the actuality of the costs resulting from feasibility studies which are either conducted and not yet completed or verified against the obvious, so to speak, indications of this. This also affects the assessment of the calculation of the financial gap in individual projects and therefore appropriate financial assembly needs to be prepared. Of course, there is a lot going on in the list of projects related to regional operational programmes. We also have a great challenge due to the need to take into account the declarations that have fallen and have been recorded in the Silesia 2.0 strategy, which were clearly not in line with the programming documents at the time when they were declared. The issue concerning Silesia is so important that we are making extraordinary efforts to ensure here that these declarations are compatible with the KPK, of course the verified one. A great challenge is [[♪ The bell ♪]] here agree all our intentions with the basic document that regulates the implementation of railway projects and not only the Implementation Document for the Transport Development Strategy, agreed with the European Commission. Here, let's say...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u79	Minister, maybe now an additional question, and then you can finish everything in the second part of the answer, okay? Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Piotr Stomma: Thank you, Marshal. I'm sorry I extended it. We'll finish in the second part of the answer. If you want to ask a second question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u80	Dear Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the structure of the railway network in the Lower Silesia and Opole region. If the Minister looks at this structure, he will clearly see that Wrocław is one of the important railway hubs, both economic and passenger, while Kluczbork is the second such important hub for both freight and passenger, from there the railway network towards Wielkopolska, towards Częstochowa, towards Upper Silesia. On the other hand, between these two important railway nodes, between Wroclaw and Kluczbork, there will be a white railway stain. In the context of this line 143, a larger range of maintenance work was established in 2015 and is only intended to secure the Wrocław - Oleśnica section, in particular to eliminate speed limits. My question is this: Were there any analysis of speed limits specifically on this section? Because in my opinion, this particular episode, Oleśnica - Wrocław, is not a section where speed limits occur to the greatest extent. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For example, in the vicinity of Bierutov there is a section where the train slows down to 5 km/h, you can successfully walk next to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u81	You're welcome, Minister, to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u82	Thank you, Marshal. My fellow Member, I have no doubt as to the relevance of these projects, which are the subject of the Member's concern, from the factual point of view. My earlier statement meant that the minister responsible for transport, of course, is a natural ally of this type of effort, while the processes which govern the resolution of these problems - at the moment it is not yet knowledge disseminated in Parliament - are governed by laws that are largely independent from the minister responsible for transport. Following administrative changes in the structure of the government, the Ministry of Development hosts most of these processes, in particular as regards EU funds or projects related to EU funding. And if we are talking about a certain time-frame for resetting the KPK, then we need to take into account the requirements of this implementation document, which cannot be updated at any time. So, as if in order to ensure the full credibility of the explanations, the information I am trying to provide, I have to talk about these conditions. The trend is paradoxical - the transport department wants to speed up the full detailed answer to such a question, while we must take into account the conditions relating to the time limits for the possible renegotiation of the implementation document with the European Union. And it is not an easy issue, it is to some extent, one can say, controversial between Poland and the European Union. Resorts also discuss this with each other. So that I can declare - I suggest, asking you to understand - that within 2 months I will present more detailed information against the background of a more mature picture of the whole situation. I think this will have more value than it can be today, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u83	Thank you so much for your answer. The next question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club, on the liquidation of the railway connection Warsaw - Przemyśl Główny by Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski on Friday and Przemyśl Główny - Warsaw on Sunday and possible difficulties for tourists in traveling towards Bieszczady and their return not only to Warsaw, but also to intermediate stations. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, and the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Mr Piotr Stomma will answer. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Due to the announced changes in the timetable of the PKP Intercity trains, I kindly ask you to answer the question whether it is true that in the new schedule, which will enter into force from June 2016, the Warsaw - Przemyśl Główny railway connection will be terminated on Friday and Przemyśl Główny - Warsaw on Sunday by among others. Skarżysko, Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski, Sandomierz. Will the possible elimination of this connection not make it more difficult for passengers to travel towards Bieszczadów and their return not only to Warsaw, but also to intermediate stations? At the same time, please provide information about other planned changes in the timetable of the PKP Intercity trains resulting in the decommissioning or limitation of railway links. I would like to point out here that the mentioned railway connection Warsaw - Main Przemyśl plays an important role in the movement of travellers towards south-eastern Poland. Their concern is that the new timetable of the PKP Intercity trains does not include this connection. They believe that this will reduce their ability to move in that direction, not only to the towns where they live, but also to make it more difficult for tourists to travel and return, for example. your bikes in the Bieszczadzki area. I'm asking for information on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u85	Minister, I'm asking you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u86	Thank you, Marshal. Members, I would like to briefly mention here the legal basis for the actions which are of interest to you. Changes to the timetable which are unforeseen at the time of its creation, once a year this timetable shall be created, may be made on the basis of Article. 5b of the Rail Transport Act at the request of the carrier, and this is the case here, or at the initiative of the infrastructure manager. Taking this as a basis, the carrier, i.e. Intercity, applied to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction as the organizer of rail passenger services between the voivodship and requested permission to resign from the running of trains - Banach, relations Warsaw Zachodnia - Przemyśl Główny - Warsaw Zachodnia during the summer holidays. The company motivates this limitation by an analysis of the data which are currently obtained from the ticket system. The results of this analysis show that these trains are mainly used by travellers with statutory student relief rights. The company takes the view that, in view of the above, the expected interest in this train during the summer period will be negligible. The company is in a difficult financial situation and the Ministry generally shares the caution in the management's approach to the issue of financial conditions. The details provided by the company consist in stating that on average, on the section Przemyśl - Radom - Przemyśl train travels between 30 and 60 travellers. This is the capacity of half a wagon, at most a wagon. This turnout did not increase during the holidays, holidays, Christmas, New Year's, and therefore the firm's authorities' conviction that during the summer holidays also here, the turnout will not increase substantially and the proposed restrictions will not cause obstacles for travellers using these trains. It should also be pointed out that in the section of Warsaw - Radom there are alternative connections between the company Koleje Mazowieckie at similar times. However, as far as the question is concerned, first of all, the provision of a connection between Warsaw and Podkarpacie for tourism purposes, I would like to stress that direct transport will continue to be provided to the Ministry of Infrastructure as well. During the summer holidays there will be trains: TLK Gombrowicz, relations Szczecin Główny - Przemyśl Główny, TLK, Flisak, Bydgoszcz Główna - Przemyśl Główny, TLK, Luna, Warszawa Zakopane - Przemysł Główny - Zagórz, TLK, Gemini, Hel - Rzeszów Główny, TLK, Staszic Main saw - Bydgoszcz Main - Rzeszów Main saw - Zagórz. This seems to be a sufficient degree, given the financial constraints, all these services are financed by the Ministry. I confirm that the needs are far greater than the basket we have at our disposal. There are conditions here that we all need to take into account. The question of other changes in the timetable. As far as the train is concerned, originally planned in the Kraków Główny - Kołobrzeg - Kraków Główny relationship and in the Łódź Kaliska - Kołobrzeg - Łódź Kaliska relationship, the connection is provided by the train Reymont. In addition, in the direct relationship of Kołobrzeg - Kraków there are alternative connections available, both night and daily, including a commercial Premium connection. As regards the general question about the June adjustment of timetable, I would like to clarify that this applies, of course, to all carriers. These changes are made due to different applications on the part of carriers, e.g. such as we have said, as well as for independent reasons, as capacity reduction as a result of modernization works, renovations and due to changes in operating parameters of railway lines. The full picture of this situation will be clear in the nearer period than at the moment we are... until June, because a large part of the changes that are being made are made on the basis of another provision of the Rail Transport Act, the provision of the article. 5f, which gives the right to correct timetables precisely for these reasons, I would say, relating to modernisations, within only one month before the need to make these changes. There's a lot going on online. At the Ministry level, there is not yet this full picture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u87	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? [[If you don't mind.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u88	Minister, of course we understand the issue of economic account, but it was a fairly new, fresh connection. Perhaps it has not yet penetrated the awareness of travelers that such a thing exists. Given that this section of the railway line from Skarżysk to Sandomierz will continue to be renovated, the entire railway line has already been spent, it might be worth considering that such long-term connections should be included in the timetable. I just wanted to ask you one thing. I understand that the suspension, the termination of this connection will be during the holiday period because then the students will not use it, and after the vacation this connection will normally be restored, right? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Piotr Stomma: Yes, that is the intention.]] Good. If the Minister assures us that this is the intention, thank you, I have no further questions. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Piotr Stomma: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u89	Then thank you very much for your answer and your previous question. The last question was joined by Maciej Małecki and Iwona Arent, the Law and Justice Club. The question is about the extent to which the current demand for natural gas and oil can be met in the event of disruptions in their supply from outside and on government policy in this area. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy, and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Mr Michał Kurtyka. Mr Maciej Małecki - I ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will ask for the availability of oil and gas resources in the event of a disruption of external supply on specific examples. It's oil first. Let us accept the situation that the Eastern deliveries will cease - for various reasons, our eastern neighbour can perfectly justify even the most reprehensible reasons for closing supplies or oil or gas. But here's the condition: oil doesn't flow from the east. At the same time some captain of a ship under e.g. The popular Panamanian flag has damaged the Naftoport arm. This is an example I used to set in the Seym. And now according to the Wrestling Act, what we have complex - oil, fuel - should be enough for 90 days of functioning of our economy. But a penny of oil is deposited in Solino Caverns and the fact that Orlen hasn't invested for many years in adapting underground storage facilities to extract oil within 90 days has made it possible for oil deposited in Solina to be available within 230 days. What is the situation in the light of the fact that two years ago we introduced a record into the Wrestling Act forcing Orlen to adapt the extraction system to 90 days? This is the first example. The second example concerns natural gas. Here the black script assumes that the gas stops flowing from the east at all three entrances: Kondratki, Highs, Drozdowicze, means the pressure at the east entrance is 0. As in this case, we will distribute the gas delivered on the Polish transmission system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] From other directions? Thank you so much, and I'm asking for your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u91	Thank you. I ask Minister Michael Kurtyka to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u92	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. Indeed, the issue of oil and gas stocks is a strategic issue, and we have a number of different actions in relation to it, in order for us, as Poland, to be sufficiently equipped for those situations which you have been gracious to describe. Firstly, with regard to oil and fuel intervention stocks, the obligation is indeed 90 days, and at this point we have enough of these stocks to cover fuel demand over a period of 104 days. In addition, individual companies maintain their own operational and commercial stocks. In such a situation, if there was a situation that the Member described, these stocks, which are operational and commercial stocks, would be mobilised at the first moment. Moreover, both traders, who in the previous calendar year brought over 100,000. T crude oil or fuels, as well as producers and operators providing storage and/or transmission services for intervention stocks, are required to develop and update the procedures applicable in the event of disruptions, inter alia. those which you have described, i.e. disruptions in the import of crude oil or fuels, disruptions in the functioning of the oil infrastructure, as well as failures in the transmission, processing or storage system. By responding precisely to questions concerning IKS Solino, I think we should remember that when it comes to agency supplies, their availability is ensured by contract. Five days after the government's signal, we have 30 days to access these supplies. However, it must be remembered that IKS Solino is not the only place where intervention supplies or agency supplies are held, but we also have overhead warehouses, where there are about 50% of them. supplies. Therefore, in such a situation, when these stocks were launched on the part of the operating and commercial companies, these stocks would be mobilised in the vessels to which we have access. It should also be borne in mind that Poland, as a member of the European Union and of the international energy agency, participates in a collective, joint intervention mechanism in the oil market where Member States support each other in a situation of disruption in the supply of raw material to the market. I think it is also worth adding that the existing oil infrastructure in Poland allows imports into Polish oil refineries from different directions. Therefore, this situation described by your Member in the event of disturbances from one direction, in this case the eastern one, is also the subject of work. In recent years, Polish refineries have identified more than 100 different oil species, and thanks to the testing of these other oil species they are prepared to replace the Urals oil type. Last time information: in April 2016 the oil terminal of PERN m3. On the other hand, with regard to the second fuel, gas, one of the main elements of the security policy in the natural gas sector is, of course, the development of storage capacity. At present, in 2015 the active capacity of underground high methane gas storage facilities was 2.8 billion m3, i.e. Okay. 18% annual consumption, 25% of annual imports to Poland and one company that maintained mandatory stocks in terms of gas, i.e. PGNiG maintained these stocks of more than 800 million m3. Moreover, with regard to security of gas supply, measures are being taken to diversify supply and build new gas connections. This is primarily a matter of Baltic Pipe, which is the physical connection between northern Poland and the Norwegian shelf and thus provide us with alternative access to gas from a different direction than the eastern one, and that is to provide this access physically. We also have the possibility of reverse deliveries on the Jamał - Europa pipeline at the Mallnow point. This investment in the event of a crisis makes it possible to reverse the gas flow and make full use of this Mallnow point, i.e. 5.4 billion m3. I think as far as this initial information is concerned, your marshal, that's it. I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u93	I ask Mrs Iwona Arent to ask for an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, the problem may not only be to meet the demand for gas and oil, but also the possibilities to distribute stocks that create our strategic reserve. Therefore, I would very much ask you to tell me what the distribution possibilities of the accumulated stocks are like. Are we not threatened by a situation where we have a supply of energy raw materials that should meet demand, for example. for approx. 30 days, but due to the so-called. The narrow throat in the system will last longer and we won't be able to, we won't be able to cover the demand 100% , but only in some part, e.g. 40% 24-hour supplies? I'm asking for information on this distribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u95	I ask you, Minister, to answer the additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u96	Thank you very much. As I mentioned, in such a situation, normal operational and commercial stocks are the first source that we would benefit from. It must be borne in mind that companies have a diversified network that covers the whole of Poland. Therefore, operating and commercial stocks are the first source to which we would reach in a situation of disruption, e.g. fuel distribution companies which maintain such stocks also because of the logistical constraints they are subject to. As far as gas is concerned, it is similar. Here is PGNiG, which distributes gas through its daughter's company throughout Poland. Trade stocks are therefore collected close to consumers, and in such a situation this would be the first way to provide consumers with access. As these operational and commercial stocks would be exhausted, we would be triggering agency and intervention stocks to such an extent. So this is a matter of a certain type of process, not a single event: after 30 days, the full use of the stocks we have, or the trouble, as you mentioned, using them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information will be considered on the effects of the amendment of the law on the education system related to changes in the education system in Poland, including the age of the school obligation, which was introduced by the Modern Posel Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. I would also remind you that the time allowed for consideration of the point: Current information may not be longer than 90 minutes. For the time being, ladies and gentlemen, 36 people have signed up to ask questions. Therefore, we will not be able to fit all of us with two minutes of speeches, so I ask you to ask questions efficiently, because I will simply have to not allow this questioning tip to be heard at all or to reduce the time to ask questions very radically. I would like to ask the representative of the applicants, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, to state the reasons for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! I would like to refer to our request for information on current issues, information on education reform, as well as the Ministry's plans for changes in education. The law adopted on 29 December on the amendment of the Law on the Education System and some other laws was a revolution that largely changed the age of school duty for children. The shift of this age from 6 to 7 years has led to changes that will affect us for a long time. It was kind of like jumping on the water head without checking the depth of this water. Let me remind you that there have been quite a number of references throughout our discussion to the fact that there is no simulation, there is no information on the real opportunities of local governments to provide care for 3-year-old children. There is, in fact, a lack of information on the impact this change will have on teachers. That is why we would like to ask a number of questions. The first question: What is the situation now that we have children enrolled in kindergartens and schools, the situation of three-year-olds throughout the country? Let us remind you that, of course, in many large cities there will be no problem with 3-year-old children, albeit not everywhere. For example, in Łódź, my home town, there will be a problem with 3-year-old children, not all will find places in kindergartens, but there are areas in Poland, for example. in Silesia, where really this situation is, one can say, even tragic. So what is the Ministry doing to give these kids a place in kindergarten? What does it look like all over Poland? I'll tell you right away that the Ministry's assurance is that there's 50,000. free places in kindergartens in the country, absolutely do not satisfy me, because the child who does not have a place in kindergarten in Łódź, it is difficult to move to Olsztyn. The next issue is the question of teachers. I am now after a meeting, after a big meeting with teachers from Łódź. They're all very concerned about their fate. In particular, teachers of initial education, who give up class III this year, live in a very high degree of uncertainty. Contrary to what the Ministry had provided, they did not receive any proposals regarding the transition to kindergarten, especially since in fact the main blockade for the launch of additional preschool groups is not a lack of teachers, but a lack of space, i.e. a lack of physical possibility to open additional preschool branches. Another thing that bothers us is the issue of school programs and textbooks. Let us remind you that this year, education in classes I will start mainly seven-year-olds and some six-year-olds, while 6-year-olds will be back in kindergartens. And at this point, it would be worthwhile for 6-year-olds to learn in these kindergartens from the curriculum for 6-year-olds rather than 5-year-olds. And now the question is whether 6-year-old children's programmes have already been developed in pre-school wards, as well as whether they will be provided with appropriate textbooks. Another thing is the issue of municipalities where there are no children at all. Does the Ministry have any data on how school branches will be set up in municipalities where there will be no children to set up at least one school unit? What will parents do if they have to send their child to school in a neighboring municipality even for the entire period of primary school education? Because I'll remind you that unless class I is created at the moment, it won't be classes II, III, IV, etc. The next issue is the financial issue of local governments. I mean not this year, because this year, as we know, the subsidy is based on last year's data, and they will be quite high, but of course you can have anxiety, which will happen in future years. Another thing is the Ministry's plans for educational change. The teachers are quite clear. They have these feelings: chaos, mess, sense of danger. In fact, especially primary school teachers do not know exactly what they are going to do. The amendment proposed in many texts and also in interviews with Minister Zalewska on four wheels, i.e. the 4+4+4+4 arrangement, actually means that many early-school teachers, actually not early-school teachers, are fired, but are taught at primary school, as well as the reform of local governments at all. We don't have any information about how it's supposed to look right now. Teachers are rightly concerned. Also, the consultation process... I took the liberty of visiting one of those consultations yesterday. I was at a security consultation in Łódź yesterday. In no way can they indicate the direction in which these changes are to go, because there are no materials on the basis of which these consultations would take place. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All these things are troubling to us. We expect an opinion and information from the Ministry on all these matters. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u99	Thank you very much, Member. And I would like an answer from the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very happy that we want to discuss the education system, that we are worried about children, because we have something to worry about. Hence the debates that have already been held several dozens. Our impressions are completely different. Indeed, you feel uncomfortable because for the first time in the history of the Republic of Poland, after 1989, it is society that starts to make decisions. These are people - self-governments, teachers, school heads, politicians - who are supposed to show the way to education. That is why, Commissioner, 27 June will be a summary of all these debates. Indeed, we will show a change of system, we will actually show every element of this system, because in none is good, there are indeed dozens of comments. Members don't participate in the panels... [[I'm sorry, they're participating. Don't lie to me.]] ...where they discuss interested parties, who possibly point out all these doubts together with specific solutions. So to get things right: don't worry, because society doesn't worry, it needs change, it sounds in every debate. We conclude the debate on 27 June. I stress in a clear way that we take every idea, including financial ideas, seriously into account. At the same time, in July, August we present further assumptions so that in September, October there are already draft laws so that no teacher is concerned that you also do not worry, but support teachers and directors, local government officials in changing the system. This will be subject to a legal procedure, subject to consultation. Everyone will have time to prepare for change. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen - I think you know this very well - in several years there will be no 2 million children in the system. This is an absolute drama not only for the education system, not only for teachers, but also for the economy. If we do not speak seriously not only about what is here and now, but also about what will be 10 years from now, we will not really be able - whoever it is in 10 years - with the education system and, above all, we will quit - I do not want to quit, and I hope that you will not - with responsibility for our children. Now that we're discussing six-year-olds and seven-year-olds, again, anxiety is unnecessary, because in the debates, questions about six-year-olds don't seem to sound, and if they sound, the wording of individual local governments is that they actually have the situation under control. [[It is said that the debate does not concern this subject.]] Mostly we have this information, although as you know and you know it, we will have the final information on 31 August, because until then the parent will decide whether the child can go to school. That's one thing. Secondly, most municipalities are still recruiting in kindergartens, and some are recruiting for private institutions. I would like to remind you that the previous government conducted such an action in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 - starting a kindergarten - it is so simple. Indeed, there are many non-public institutions that are subsidised 100% in terms of nursery education. [[It saves you.]] In fact, in some local governments... The classic example is, of course, Warsaw, because most local governments simply thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, from the data... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Of course, big ones, and I'm saying that statistics can be unreliable here when we're talking about 50,000. free places, because we compare it to the years 2013 and 2014, when there was the biggest accumulation of kindergarteners, and the pre-schooling in a group of three-year-olds was 84%. From our predictions, it seems that the greater does not expect even society. It's just that when it comes to three-year-olds, they prefer to have them home. Right now, we've got almost 200,000. less children in the system. At the same time, we note that there are pre-school units that are supposed to function as kindergartens. And here's the 100,000. free seats. Of course, some nervous discussion is unnecessary. That's why I'm talking to the attending authorities, saying, first of all, that actually this year they have money for a six-year-old no matter where this six-year-old is: in class I or kindergarten... [[About $4,000. less.]] [[But let me talk.]] It's an educational subsidy, and it's a financial tool. There is 1600 million for preschool education and an increased grant for preschooler, and at the same time it is my declaration that a priority in education subsidies, which is also for inventory and change, but this is a long process, because in education nothing It's not going to happen in one year, it's my unanimous declaration, meeting the expectations of local governments, that we're trying so hard to count six-year-olds, that if our parents do according to their will... 'Cause it's 80%. Indeed, parents leave their children in kindergarten, where the child is to learn so that the local authorities are satisfied and that this is not a cause for quarreling and bullying, although this is, as you rightly say, the task of the commune. However, I would like us to talk to local government officials in this way. Let us accomplish this task, let us support parents in discussions, which are also the objectives of the local government. Self-government pays taxes on it on its citizens. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to show you financial instruments, because we are looking for them, which will support local governments in building kindergartens. But note - this really will be equal opportunities, i.e. where there will be no kindergarten, we will discuss it with local governments, but local governments must show it fairly and there is such a declaration from local authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as teachers are concerned, of course we repeat this and it is absolutely obvious - children in school do not lose their children, they do not lose their children in the system. The children will learn. Either in kindergarten or in school. So if there are the same number of children, then the risk of dismissal is absolutely no cause for concern. [[The other penny will be.]] Teachers and teachers should find a job in kindergarten, there is one host body, I remind you, so that you don't even have to make any layoffs, it could be a transfer. If we are talking about concerns - parents are not concerned about this, Mrs President - what are the programming bases for 6-year-old children who stay in kindergarten, they will not repeat anything. The change has been shown, there have already been pre-consultation of this change, although as you well know, the final change will take place since September 2017, and believe me that pre-school education and early-school teaching are a very important element in the debate. We talk to dorms, with practices, so that it is really the best basis for programming, which corresponds to the development of the child, because the child is really to prepare for education, but at the same time to think about his responsibilities, systematicity and independence, because this is also lacking in education. Therefore, this basis is already ready, it is already on the web pages, you can look at it. I would like to remind you that teachers in kindergartens choose for themselves, it is not a question of contentious or nervousness. What we are worried about, especially in early school education, is mathematics and Polish language, reading and how to change the textbook, how it should look, how to teach the children of mathematics, so as not to get nervous that there is a low degree. And when... Because there's also a question about four-year-old high school, yes, it sounds like a debate. There is an absolute need to return to 4 years of high school and to vocational education, which is not tied to evaluation, bureaucracy and exams that actually last all year. I'm rephrasing, ladies and gentlemen, but indeed, the headmasters of vocational schools are complaining. High school cannot be a training course for Matura, and vocational school is to educate workers needed in the labour market. And the twenty-seven we'll be, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] discuss this. With regard to vocational schools, in June in Wałbrzych, in a special economic zone together with those who designed the educational cluster, together with Prime Minister Morawiecki we will show the way in vocational education. Unfortunately, there's no time here. Employers do not want to wait the next few years for the vocational school to be freed from bureaucracy, and they need very rapid changes. And actually, I'm gonna need backup here, too. Thank you for this information, for your questions, because they allow you to resolve doubts and concerns. There's no chaos, we're discussing it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u102	There's no bill. When there's a bill, we'll be substantively referring to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u103	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Members with questions came to the discussion. We've got 39 people registered. I think all the people who wanted to ask the question have signed up, so I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. The first person to ask the question is Mrs Marzena Machalek, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u104	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will refer to the justification of the proposal for the current information. In fact, Commissioner, these revolutionary changes took place in the previous two terms of office, and this revolution, unfortunately, had its victims. And these victims were children who had been subjected to harmful pedagogical experiments. [[That's not a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u105	Madame, this is the time to ask questions, the Minister is attached to the answer. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u106	This harmful pedagogical experiment was among others. lower school age or dismantle general education schools. Indeed, today we have a good change, and this good change is that we are primarily restoring the freedom of parents to influence and choose their school age when it comes to 6-year-olds, but above all we are restoring credibility - the credibility of the state, the credibility of the government and the responsibility of the state for education. One of these changes is that the Minister is talking that the Minister is holding debates, that it is not as some expect that there will already be solutions that we will not debate, but that the debate is to work out these solutions. And I think we can thank you for that, not criticize such debates. My question is precisely about the results and achievements of these debates. We know that there are discussions in these debates about the school system, namely the system, financing and programme. I wanted to ask the Minister here how the debaters, how the debate participants refer to the idea of restoring a 4-year-old high school of general education, preparing and training young Poles, destroyed and dismantled during the reign of PO-PSL. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u107	Thank you, Member. At the same time, I would like to remind you that in fact this stage is not asking questions, although they may fall, but discussion. Hence another person, Mrs Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! May I ask the Minister a question: Why do you harm children? [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] You are the first minister, not only in Poland, but perhaps in Europe and in the world, who urges parents to leave their children in the same class for the second year. [[Applause]] [[It's outrageous. What have you done?]] Why aren't you telling your parents about the negative effects of second year? I'm sure you're familiar with Professor Hatti's publications, which has studied more than 200 researches on the effects of secondary years. All scientists agree that leaving the child for the second year in the same class has terrible consequences. Not only for his psyche, but also for his knowledge and skills. A child left for the second year in the same class can't do more, even less, after a year of repatriating, and has a disturbed sense of self-esteem. Don't tell me that the parents' decision and the Minister's permission will change that. Some children, small, will remain in the same class for the second year, while their peers, classmates, will move on. The children are cruel, the Minister, and the children will have, at all times, a sense of greater value, and the other, a sense of lesser value... [[Says the former minister. It's just a shame.]] ...because they're gonna repeat the class. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These negative effects are evident in the coming years. He also writes about this in his publication, based on more than 200 studies. Minister, why aren't you informing your parents about the negative effects of repeating the class? I've been to the debates and I've been, Minister, also on the panels. If there are teachers there, local government officials ask about the consequences [[♪ The bell ♪]] reform, it is your employees, and you, too, are informing them that the debate does not concern this subject, that the debate is on another subject... [[Scandal!]] ...beside the problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u109	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u110	Don't mislead the public. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u111	I would like to ask the floor of Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! I took the liberty of making an additional request because the teachers obliged me to ask one question. For many years, teachers have not received any increases, at the same time due to this change, which is proposed, we know that since 2017 expenditure on subsidies for local governments will be lower due to the fact that one year will be at least incomplete. I would like to ask on behalf of teachers: can they therefore hope that in 2017 these funds will be earmarked for teacher increases or are you planning to do so? At the same time, I wanted to say that in no way, I think, you have not reassured us or solved the doubts of both teachers and mine. Most of your answers are exactly the same answers we heard when this reform was to be implemented, on 29 December. I will remind you that we have already half of April, it seems that this is the time in which, in fact, using different data, we could perform a simulation that we did not receive at that time, about how many teachers really lose their jobs, because the municipalities simply do not have the opportunity to start another preschool group, so they will not be moved to this preschool group, and how many children will not find places in schools. I'm still saying we have $50,000. places too much on the scale of the whole country at a time when kindergarten is something that should be right next door, not in another village, even in another district, and let alone in another voivodship, simply cannot satisfy us in any way. What is happening in Upper Silesia, the number of places in which these places are actually missing, is appalling. In addition, I will remind you that in smaller towns rarely there are branches in private kindergartens. It is characteristic for large cities, not for small towns, where there are really no seats for 3-year-old children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u113	Thank you very much. Another speech - Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u114	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to refer to the speech of the Member who started asking questions. Maybe it's time we stopped talking about this disassembled system, about the destroyed plants, about all the bad regulations. Six months go by, let's talk about how, on this basis, on the basis of the assessment of youth education, the passability of exams, the level of knowledge in Europe you want, and we will support and seconds, create a new reality for the functioning of the education system, which will keep up and follow progress in the 21st century. I would like to ask, Minister, how the Minister sees the creation of a new network of primary schools above all, because the time will come for high school. You yourself say that the number of young people is decreasing, but it will be time to determine the level and number of children in a functioning institution. Self-governments will also ask about it, they will not ask about it now, because it is such a time when some prefer to wait, accept these solutions for fear and concern for further functioning in the municipality, but we will be faced with a choice of how many children must be in school, what level is to be and what criteria. Hence the role of curators who, for some reason, maintain the functioning of the number of schools that have been so far. Question two. When we can really talk about the assumptions for the reformed education system, for the created high schools, because a network of new types of vocational schools is created [[♪ The bell ♪]] in regions also based on new EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u115	Thank you, sir. The next question will be asked by Dariusz Piontkowski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When we discuss changes in the education system today, we can really talk about one law that has restored the right of parents to decide when their child will start schooling. Members of the Platform are persistently trying to claim that there has been a terrible change that destroys everything. The Minister has just threatened with secondary years, but this secondary year or the possibility of repeating the class is the result of fatal decisions made by the previous PO-PSL coalition. After all, this coalition led to the fact that children were sent to schools, which, according to the overwhelming majority of teachers and psychologists, had not yet reached school maturity. [[That's absurd. Bullshit.]] This means that at least a dozen percent of children will have school failures. They will start at the very beginning of education, and as time passes, they will deepen. This next moment, when these school problems will overlap, will be class IV, and then there will be further stages of education. [[Voice from the room: You're better than 200 scientists.]] All educators and psychologists clearly indicate that school immaturity does not disappear itself, it will deepen. That's why there was an attempt to get out of the way of these problems that have already arisen. In this connection, the question to the Minister: Are there any studies that indicate how these two years that had been forced to be sent to schools have been handled? I repeat: forced, against the will of parents, because they were forced to make a long and tedious administrative road to postpone their child's school duties. They were tried to convince them that they were to prove that their children were intellectually immature, and only under this pretext could this delay be obtained. And case number two. After the debates that take place in voivodships, special questions arise from teachers about teaching children who are slightly mentally impaired and very strong in their development. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u117	Thank you so much for speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u118	Will this trend continue, according to the Minister, or should the rank and role of special education be restored? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u119	I would like to ask Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is worth remembering one simple principle and it would seem obvious: First there is a debate, then there is a decision. I think it is some kind of misunderstanding that the Minister and the honourable Member are talking about debates today. [[Voice from the room: For the lady.]] The six-year-olds change has been introduced by you, so what kind of debates are you talking about here? [[Education.]] In my family Częstochowa is 1716 years old. These children would have gone to school on September 1 if you hadn't started an arrogant, incompetent process of destroying one of the best in Europe, the most effective education systems. [[You're kidding.]] The obligation of about 200 of these children would be postponed in the past years, as the Member who just spoke would not remember or know. It was a simple decision of the parent - I submit an application, I say: my child is not ready, and my child is not going. However, 1500 six-year-olds in Czestochowa would go from September to prepared classes, with colorful teaching toys, with carpets, with friendly teachers who were waiting for them. Because of you, these children will stay in equally colorful kindergartens, but note: at the expense of 1,500 three-year-olds who will have to stay home. [[Voice from the room: Right.]] You took away three-year-old mothers' chance to go to work because even if these three-year-olds were a second child, 500 zlotys wouldn't be enough for a nanny. And you took 10 million zlotys from my town, because the same children in kindergarten will only get 3 million zlotys thanks to the Civic Platform government, because it was our change that the child in kindergarten would also be subsidised with a state-specific subsidy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[He's lying.]] My city is losing 7 million PLN... [[Voice from the room: she's not losing anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u121	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u122	...and even if you have cursed reality, this is the worst change in the last 26 years in the education system in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u123	I would like to speak with Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have four specific questions for you regarding the model for the functioning of education. Since which year does the Ministry plan to implement the 4-year structure of the education system: 4 years of early school education, 4 years of middle school, 4 years of high school? Second question: Speaking of a 4-year-old early-school education system, are you going to include six-year-olds in early-school education? Question three: If early school education is extended by 1 year, will the same teacher fully implement it, or will be carried out by teachers teaching specific subjects, e.g. Mathematician, polonist? Question four: To what extent will the Education System Act be amended, which currently prevents parents from purchasing additional publications for school use that develop interest and the ability of children? I would very much ask the Minister to respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u125	Thank you very much. The next speech was a speech by Mr Jan Łopata from the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u126	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proverbs are the wisdom of the nations, we say, but we do not necessarily apply them. One of the more well-known says that haste is good, but with a different activity than education reform. [[Oh, Jesus.]] This required and undoubtedly requires time, caution and foresight skills, unfortunately all these elements were missing. I well remember this December, November discussion and urge this bill to be implemented as soon as possible, and today teachers, local governments, parents are beating on alarms. [[Who's beating?]] Minister, whatever you say, that's the truth. I've been in meetings. Total mess and chaos, they say. [[Voice from the hall: You have entered.]] And the extreme situation is in rural environments. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yeah, rural, where the symptoms of the demographic low have dramatically done their job. Unfortunately, there are fewer and fewer children each year. I did some research before today in my well-known local government, and it turns out that in two schools there will be fifteen kids. It's still a good result to say, but there are five, six and seven other schools in class I. Well, there's the problem. And in order for me to be well understood, it is not just an economic or financial problem, although this particular municipality, this particular government spends 13 million PLN on education, and receives 6.5 million PLN of subsidies, exactly half, but above all the social problem. Teacher layoffs, names drop, they show up. Transporting kids to other school circuits, to other municipalities is also a problem. And the problem of few of the first branches in case the local governments decide. After all, these troops, after all, this number of students will be transferred to the next year's class. How do you run a squad, class V, class VI with so many kids? I mean, it's really gonna be a problem. And in conclusion, a request. You've talked a lot about consulting here. Perhaps it's a proverb that I didn't exactly quote at first, in this situation it won't be. [[♪ The bell ♪]] necessary and appropriate, but I would ask you very much to think now, in advance, as a result of all the reforms that you are preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u127	Thank you, sir. Next question will be asked, Mr. Zbigniew Dolata, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u128	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! When I listen to the speeches made by the Member of the Civic Platform, it reminds me of a folk proverb: The Devil is wearing an ornament and a tail for Mass. If you're talking about arrogance, you really know what you're saying, because there was no more arrogant formation that would ignore the voices of parents, teachers than your formation. However, I am surprised at the Modern information on this current information. Really, if we are talking about bias, which refers to liberalism and at the same time questions the right of parents to choose about the education of children, I wonder what kind of... [[The right to choose was!]] ...ideal traditions are canceled. After all, there was no more consultation on the change in Polish education than the withdrawal from this harmful decrease in school age, the forced collection of six-year-olds to school - what the Government of Law and Justice did. And that's what parents and teachers thank us for. This is part of a good change. [[Voice from the room: Yes? And teachers?]] I would like to refer to one more change which this amendment has introduced, namely to the provision of education curators with competences that allow them to... [[Voice from the hall: He will close his mouth to teachers, parents and local government.]] ...stopping some local governments trying to close down... [[What does that have to do with six-year-olds?]] ...destroy the schools. It was the Platform and the PSL that opened the gate, or actually the gate to the real tsunami that destroyed thousands of schools. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The education curator's equipment in these competences has made these liquidations less. And I wanted to ask the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u129	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u130	...is there data on this...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u131	The next question will be...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u132	...how many local governments have come up with conclusions... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u133	Mr Radosław... no, sorry, Marek Rząsa. Those changes on the list, the deletions... [[Applause]] I'm missing an MP. [[Ma'am, you're gonna calm down.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u134	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What Katarzyna Lubnauer, the applicant for today's information, presented, is only the tip of the iceberg that you erected in front of Polish parents, local governments, teachers and consequently children. Thanks to the narrative of misrepresentation of facts, reality, sowing fear of the Law and Justice, unfortunately, some parents managed to convince that their 6-year-old children are socially unfit, are worse, are less creative, are less capable than their European peers. Yes, parents were given a choice, but they were completely in conflict with local government. Minister, in my constituency, I was able to collect incomplete data from 26 to about 91 municipalities, about 28%. data. And from this data, almost 48 million cost these municipalities, 26 municipalities, adapting schools for six-year-olds. But this is good, because this adaptation is good for all children, that's good. On the other hand, the municipalities estimate their losses for withdrawing six-year-olds to kindergarten for about 12.5 million. In my city, in Przemyśl, it is as much as PLN 2.5 million. About 120 teachers will lose their jobs and the amount of checks will amount to tens of thousands of PLN. For dozens of children, there will be no place in kindergartens. Let me remind you, these are data from only 28% The municipalities, still incomplete, because some of the wójtów said they were only in the process of collecting data. Finally, Minister, good advice and, I think, a hint for you. In the 2016 budget, the Civic Platform and PSL government secured funds as a subsidy to all six-year-olds at school. One amendment, please, direct this money to the six-year-olds who will stay in kindergarten and not subsidize these children, just give them a subsidy. You will help the Minister of Local Government, and at the same time will make the subsidy of six-year-olds, wherever they study next year, become a standard, while fulfilling your promises in this matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question is, what kind of idea do you have?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u135	Thank you very much. I'd like you to step forward...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u136	...for the forthcoming demographic crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u137	...Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister, a few months ago, I reported to you the problems that local governments presented to me. The lady said we'd talk when it happened. Now is the time, because that's what happened. I'm after talking to all the mayors, the uncles in my district. They asked me a few questions. I'd also like to hear the answer, and maybe the Minister will defy it. They told me that the class went out financially at zero when it had 24 students, and that today they wouldn't find a class where 24 people would be. Who's gonna cover this funding, or are the local governments gonna cover what it looks like? That's what they asked me. Here's another thing. In my hometown today, 160 places are missing in kindergartens just because they're six-year-olds. I'd like to be able to answer some questions to different people when I come back. Mr Slopata has already said this about the village. There's a coincidence in my district that one kid came in at one school and three people came in at the other school. What are these kids gonna do? There's an idea, someone came up with the idea of combining classes, but I don't think that's the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u139	Thank you very, very much. The next speech will be presented by Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The introduction of a schooling obligation from the age of 7 and the right to start school education by 6-year-olds are an example of a really good change in education, good for children and their parents. For parents have been given the right to choose because they know best what is beneficial for their children, and they enjoy this right to choose. In my hometown, Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, there are about 500 6-year-olds and 10% children. of which parents enrolled in Class I and 90% - to preschool branches operating both in kindergartens and in primary schools. Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski is an example of one of many local governments, who with the problem of six-year-olds, but also younger children managed, and it did very well. When parents' decisions showed how much age change was expected by them in terms of school obligations, the Ostrowiec authorities tried to do their best to help these parents and their children, not to multiply their difficulties. I would like to ask the Minister to answer the question: What does the Minister believe is the very different attitude of local governments in this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u141	Thank you very much for the smooth presentation of your speech and your time. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u142	Minister! High Izbo! Like most of my fellow Members, I went around my constituency, I met in schools, I watched the schools look like they were prepared. I've seen how much money has been spent by local governments so that six-year-olds are accepted in these schools. And every time I talked to the teachers, I heard them. about one thing: if a real debate were to take place, this real debate would serve the conclusion that it is better to be consistent in the action. If you spend money, if you do special programs, it's better that these programs are implemented consistently. For what would this come to? And the point is, we'd have uniform classes of six-year-olds next year. A one-sided class of six-year-olds is a class in which we have the right to develop children without this mixture of six. -, seven-year-olds, a program in which we secure them, starting with physiological activities, i.e. security, guaranteeing an assistant teacher, through the whole, consistently implemented program at school. Schools, I saw, they're ready. Teachers, on the other hand, are terribly concerned, as are the directors. You're saying that the debate was real. Unfortunately, I read in the papers... Here's what's in the Poznań paper after your debate: MEN started a debate in schools. The minister said hello and left. Big misunderstanding, instrumental treatment. These are the titles in the Poznań newspapers. [[Jesus.]] Google, just go in. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha, normally a joke.]] But what are the teachers talking about? They're gonna lose their jobs. And what method is that? First of all, there will be annual health leave. This is the first method. How much will it cost us as a country? Later there will be incomplete jobs, so-called jobs. limited. How's that gonna work, by the way, for the teacher insurance system later? They'll be retiring. Why will they be sent so quickly? Yeah, because there won't be a way to move to kindergarten. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And finally fired. There's no place in kindergarten for elementary school teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u143	Thank you very much. [[That's not true.]] [[That's what I heard.]] [[Bullshit. One woman to the other woman.]] [[It's the way it is with you guys.]] The next speech will be presented by Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u144	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u145	I remind the Members that we are in the plenary room of the Sejm and I ask you very much to avoid such comments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u146	Especially jokers on such a serious subject, Mr. Messengers. The Minister says that he thinks in terms of 10 or 20 years, but unfortunately the Law and Justice, the state, your decisions have caused the catastrophic situation of the parents of three-year-olds who will not be admitted to kindergarten, because the seats will be blocked by six-year-olds, as well as for the parents of younger children, who will be blocked by the places in daycare by the three-year-olds who will not go to kindergarten. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] That's right, Minister, because you keep hearing about these situations. Please read them, these topics are analyzed on an ongoing basis. The minister, the mothers in the local press are still complaining. They want to go to work, they want to start it, they have their life problems, they want to solve them, but there is no way. I'll talk about local governments in a minute. However, if this is the case in 10 or 20 years, if you are in the same style as the six-year-olds reform this education, then we are going to have an educational hecatom, rather than a good solution. The Minister said that local governments have a calming situation. What does that mean? Which one? Because from my information, for example. Admissions to crèches are stopped because local governments are unable to solve the problems you have faced by changing the rules on six-year-olds. The minister says we have about 50,000. places in kindergartens, right? But it's like saying that a horse and a man have an average of three legs. That doesn't mean anything. The fact that there are places... [[What does that have to do with anything?]] [[Voice from the room: Failed comparison.]] Yeah, it's like there's 50,000 somewhere. places in kindergartens doesn't mean that the children who need them can stay in kindergartens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One more question, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u147	Mr President, if you'd like to finish, we have two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u148	I'm almost done. [[The voice from the room: Something didn't go.]] I wanted to ask you one last question: Who did the Minister say that parents prefer three-year-olds to stay home? Because in my opinion, mothers want to go back to work, they want to go back to the labour market and work, not cook dinners at home. [[Let's stop.]] [[A voice from the hall: You'd probably give up your baby right after you were born?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u149	Next question - Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz. You're welcome. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz is? There isn't. Then it is Mrs Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u150	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to signal the problem presented to me by the Association of Municipalities of the Lubuskie Voivodeship, which is connected with the abolition of the school obligation for 6-year-olds. The case concerns a time limit for parents to submit their child's declaration of accession to the school obligation. Today, as the Minister has already mentioned, parents make such a declaration by the end of March with the option of changing their views by the end of August. This makes planning of pre-school and school branches much more difficult in the current situation. The Association therefore calls for a single deadline for these declarations, of course earlier than the end of August. So that I ask you to respond to this request of the association. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u151	Thank you very much for your smooth speech and your time. Mrs Monica Rosa, I would like another speech, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u152	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about textbooks and educational materials for schools. First of all, on the basis of the programme, we would like to know from which school year will be introduced a new programme basis for early school education, but also a new basis for primary school classes IV-VI, and whether, as a consequence, these programme changes will also be adapted to them e-handbooks for general education. We know that now there is a government manual developed by the Civic Platform government. We would like to know whether it will remain in force or whether the Ministry and the Minister are planning to issue their own educational manuals. We also have a question about the teacher's freedom to choose educational materials. Does PiS, Law and Justice plan to implement its own programme, in which it is written that there will be three school textbooks admitted to each educational stage? The next question concerns the tender and competitions for textbooks for the new programming base. What are the selection criteria? How are these tenders gonna look like? I would very much ask the Minister to respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u153	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your smooth speech. Before I give the floor to the next Member, I would like to welcome a group of seniors from Wrocław and Wrocław County. I hope you will be happy to listen to the debate of the Sejm. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! My parents summarized the system best. They showed what they really think about the reform of the PO-PSL government. Preliminary recruitment results for kindergarten clearly show that parents don't want six-year-olds in school. It's probably going from a few to a dozen percent of six-year-olds to class I. [[They don't want to.]] The parents' decision means that the solution proposed... [[The end of the world.]] ...and carried out by Law and Justice meets social expectations. Many local governments respect their parents' decisions and prepare well for the new school year. Unfortunately, there were also local governments who tried to arouse emotions and influence parents' decisions in different ways at a time when they made declarations of choice: whether school or kindergarten. Minister, as a result, I have a question. Did the ministry get any information from the parenting groups of six-year-olds about the rehearsals... [[Yes.]] ...torpedoing the solution proposed... [[Ha, ha, ha.]] ...in the bill and forcing parents to sign children to school? And the question of these questions emerging from the opposition, such a plarum, fearing that early school teachers will lose their jobs. It was said here from this podium that there is no room for early school teachers in kindergartens. Minister, will early-school education teachers find a place to work in kindergartens, for example by means of a transfer? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You have to have jobs. Qualified isn't enough.]] [[We made the ovations. Weak, not standing up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u155	Thank you very much, Member. I would like another speech from Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For many children who have been delayed in school last year, the changes currently being made are extremely harmful. Under the new regulation, such classes in small towns are created with a minimum of seven 7-year-olds. In many small municipalities, the first class will not be created because of too few such children. Their parents have an alleged choice. [[It's a real choice.]] They will either send them to schools in their localities where these children will study with second graders, or they will often take them several kilometers to schools where class I will be created. And so, High Izbo, parents who were opposed to reducing school age to six years and postponed their children, are now punished and children hurt. [[Oh, my God.]] I have a question. Where did the number of seven children come from... [[Seven o'clock.]] ...sufficient to create class I in small towns? Is it the result of purely financial calculations and planned savings? I guess we all think that children and their education shouldn't be spared. Minister, why are you lying? You lie to your parents, teachers... [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Oh, Jesus, that's too much.]] ...and the most abused foolish decisions are children. That's the good change in your bad actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u157	Thank you very much. Another speech, Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about local governments. Many people, many Members and many Members have already asked this question. I have a pretty specific question. Are there any consultations with local authorities? [[Self-government is not a party here.]] They're a party, local governments are a party, too. I've met with a lot of local government officials lately, and I feel like they're really scared of the lack of information and the lack of communication with the government side. [[My parents are the most important people here. And the baby.]] Just now, Mrs. Joanna Borowiak has accused some local governments of sabotaging these changes and encouraging their parents to make bad decisions. [[Because it's true.]] As we know, it's the parents' decision. On the other hand, the situation faced by self-governments and local governments in Poland is really very difficult, because there will be no room for three-year-olds in kindergartens. I'm sure there'll be a problem with the zeroes, too. And this chaos... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I recently applied for a three-year-old for kindergarten. That's how I know. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Okay, I will help Mr...]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u159	Minister, you'll have your time. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: I want to support the Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u160	Thank you very much, Minister, but I have also spoken to a number of local governments, local government officials in southern Wielkopolska, who say that they simply will not physically succeed and that there will be no place for three-year-olds in kindergartens. And that's a serious problem. I'm just asking because perhaps the Minister already has a solution. But there's another thing I want to ask you. What is the future of middle school and high school in Poland? Here, too, I will appeal to a personal example. I spoke to my niece recently and asked her how she was doing at school and what her plans were. She said she didn't know if she was going to junior high or if it was still elementary school. You can see that the students are talking about it, they don't know what's going on, and they're just afraid for their future. So, in these two aspects, I ask for the Minister's reply in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u161	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Borowiak would like to correct... [[Yeah, yeah.]] What would the corrigendum have to do with it? [[My name has been mentioned...]] Well, it's one thing to say, but what were you trying to correct? [[I wanted to explain to him what he misunderstood.]] There you go. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, I didn't accuse the local authorities of anything. You misunderstood me. On the other hand, it must be made clear and clear that the bad situation of local governments today is the result of negligence caused by 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. [[Voice from the room: A 50% increase in subsidy.]] There have been cases, and you know it very well, because the media also report that local governments have even tried to bribe their parents - in quotes I say - by proposing financial gratifications for the fact that they will write down [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your children... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u164	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The change in the education system introduced by the Minister of Education is a good change. This is a good change for Polish education, ladies and gentlemen. We're introducing proper pedagogical supervision. The parent will decide whether his child is intellectually prepared to go to school or not. We can talk to parents, young people, teachers and self-government. Last week, together with Deputy Minister Teresa Wargocka, we participated in the discussion panel in the town of Mława in my district. The discussion panel concerned changes in the education system from the perspective of small towns. Ladies and gentlemen, we were able to talk. It was a constructive conversation that introduced a lot of good into Polish education. The Minister noted all the observations. Each of you could speak and surely his voice will be taken into consideration and considered - certainly because our ministry is well prepared for this. We work constructively... [[Since when do you work in the Ministry?]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] We work in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth... [[We can see how.]] ...and we also work constructively. And I'm prepared for that. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u165	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u166	I have an appointment with the Minister... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u167	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Club. Madame, I've already turned off your microphone. I'm asking you to leave the platform. [[Voice from the Chamber: The honourable Member has not finished her praise.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The amendment of the Act on the Education System, changes in the education system in Poland recently implemented concerns children of pre-school and school age, youth, teachers and local governments. But these are not good changes. Pulling six-year-olds out of school is a step backwards. This decision undermines the efforts made by the municipalities in recent years to adapt schools and promote pre-school education. A few months ago, municipalities invested in adapting the premises to the needs of 6-year-olds, and now more resources have to be put out to adapt these facilities to the needs of older students. By the end of April, school heads are preparing organizational projects for the next school year, but there are many unknowns. There's general organizational chaos. The withdrawal of reform is a weak recruitment of first-class students. The decision of the piss six-year-olds may, but they do not have to, go to school, only seven-year-olds go, and these are few, because they are children postponed; I represent Olsztyn, there are over 380 children who have been delayed. There will therefore be a decrease in the employment of primary school teachers. Has the government estimated how many jobs will be decommissioned? In recent years, the municipalities have invested in improving the qualifications of teachers. Moreover, the withdrawal of the reform means a reduction in education subsidies and there are no places for three-year-olds in kindergartens. Such problems multiply and arise from rash decisions. Ladies and gentlemen! PiS forgets that wise governance is making decisions good for Poles, but not always popular. Do you know what costs the local authorities will incur for these changes? Can they count on government help? I represent Warmia and Mazury. It is a very poor region. I'm meeting with the mayors, the old-timers, the uncles, because [[♪ The bell ♪]] My roots come from education.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u169	Thank you, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u170	They're having financial problems...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u171	...for the performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u172	... They're asking us how we're gonna help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u173	Mr Dariusz Kubiak, the Law and Justice Club, will act as another. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Surely a good decision is the announcement of eliminating the sixth grade test, which brings nothing to the education of young people, but merely preparing for tests. It is certainly also a good decision to withdraw this decision in 2017 as students are already prepared and at this point this would certainly not be appropriate. In this connection, I have a question to ask the Minister: How, however, will research be conducted on educational added value and showing the level of knowledge and skills of students at the entrance and exit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u175	Thank you very much. Although guests from Secondary School No 4 in Olkusz who have arrived at the invitation of Mrs Lydia Gądek are leaving, I hope that the Sejm and the proceedings will be pleased. [[Applause]] And now I ask Anna Białkowska to ask her next question, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm here to support you, because I think you're gonna give yourself some thought after what you're gonna hear here. I wanted to give a concrete example - an example of the city of Radom in which I live. I'll give you the numbers. The number of 6-year-olds registered in Radom is 2282 persons, the number of 6-year-olds applied to continue preschool education is 1762 persons - that is 77% , i.e. 23% Children will start their schooling duty, only 23%. And now for local governments - the school subsidy amounts to PLN 5310 per student in the school year, the grant from the state budget for children in kindergarten amounts to PLN 1370. The above figures can easily calculate the difference in subsidies that Radom will receive - that is about 10 million, less money will get, nine million seven hundred... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I have that information, and I'm going to ask the Minister for another one, and then we can easily count which one of us is right. Radom's government won't get that amount, they'll get 10 million less, I repeat. The number of classes I branches in the school year 2016/2017 will be 55 and this year it will be 119, which is statistically may also mean a risk of losing a job of about 35 early-school teachers of several schools. In kindergartens after completion of recruitment, 450 seats for 3-year-olds are missing, because there is an additional yearbook - 77% Six-year-olds. There's gonna be... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u177	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u178	...than the demographics caused by the Minister's decision. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u179	Another person is Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u180	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law on changing the education system introduced by the current Sejm was a response to the expectations of parents who repeatedly reported these demands in the previous term, unfortunately the PO-PSL coalition was deaf to the parents' voice. This change has shown that the child's welfare is the most important thing in education. The decision to educate the child is in the hands of the parents. Parents have the choice for the first time. Getting 6-year-olds to do schoolwork has a negative psychological impact. This change in most local governments is implemented almost seamlessly thanks to the large involvement of local authorities, but unfortunately there are signals about generating artificial problems related to the implementation of the change. This usually happens where PO and PSL rule. I have a question for the Minister: Is it true that the Civic Platform made it from kindergarten schools instead of building these kindergartens, which often resulted in two shifts in schools? Second question: Does the government foresee or foresee measures to support local governments in this area? If so, what is it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u181	Thank you very much. Mrs Lidia Gądek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When the Minister spoke about it at some point - as a programme assumption - that the Government of Law and Justice will conduct a wide public consultation on the so-called. I must admit that even I have fallen for this and I have said that a broad debate will be held, in which we will be able to discuss in substance what we are in and what we want to change. Unfortunately, it turned out that the night shift - instead of a good change, without consulting, without listening to any social side, except for one foundation, for which it was a good change - was a rapid reversal of the reform regarding the age of our children, who have... a school obligation, a school obligation. In the meantime, I participated in several debates - organized not politically, but by social parties - in my constituency, in the city of Cracow, Olkuskie, Miechów and Podkrakowskie counties and communes. Minister, there was one request everywhere, which I have undertaken to tell you that the government of the Ministry is receiving partial and very inconsistent information and guidance on how to proceed. The Minister has a very nice smile, but I would very much like to be handed over in writing so that I can pass on to my self-government, not ruling from the Platform and the PSL, because they are usually election committees, as these instructions were. [[Camouflaged.]] What were those instructions? [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: No, but I would ask a specific question.]] In a minute, in a minute. What instructions were given, [[♪ The bell ♪]] concerning This...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u183	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u184	...at what age and how to mobilize children...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u185	Next question, speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u186	...to pass as seven-year-olds? [[Turn off the mike. This is scandal, discrimination.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u187	Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u188	I'll put it in writing if it's not enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u189	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u190	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think that in the discussion about changing the age of school duty for seven-year-olds, it is worth coming out of the cause of such a decision of the current government. The reduction in school age by the predecessors was done without public consultation. Most parents strongly opposed such changes. They were setting up social committees, collecting signatures, petitioning, but no one wanted to talk to them or listen to them. Self - government has also been skeptical about this idea. This involved further organisational changes in schools and kindergartens. The current changes, although they raise some concerns, are in line with the expectations of the parents of the youngest children, because they do not want to take their childhood away from their children and can choose for them the future, using the options available, so: continue class I for children born in 2009 or send a six-year-old to class I or leave it in kindergarten. I believe that after the full implementation of the current changes, no one will remember these problems. Self-governments have shown that they can stand up to the task... [[Voice from the Chamber: An empty yearbook for 12 years, sir.]] ...and so it will certainly be in this case. It also seems that another positive aspect of the return of seven-year-olds to Class I is the chance that on this occasion the curriculum and school textbooks can be improved. However, Minister, it would be worth looking at the current amount of subsidies for educational tasks and considering, for example. additional importance compensating municipalities for the withdrawal of children from primary school to kindergarten, at least during a transitional period. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There's money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, please, the Civic Platform Club. And the Member was from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u192	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Here, from this Parliamentary Speaker, many Members have said that they have spoken to local government officials about the proposed changes. I sent to them all from the territory of my voivodship, Świętokrzyskie voivodship, to 102 communes. I was just asking them about the effects of the school age reduction. And believe me, it has not happened that anyone has expressed these changes positively. Everyone looked at these changes, which were carried out very quickly, without in-depth consultation, because the public consultation is not just about writing legal solutions under the dictation of one foundation, under the dictation of the Elbanowski State Foundation. You have shown that you do not care about the opinion of Polish local authorities, but they will actually be left alone with these problems. One of the wojewódz in the reply to me described these changes as tragic in effect. I want to ask you about those doubts that they described to me. What will you say to these local governments today, often poor, rural and urban-rural, because they are in Świętokrzyskie voivodeship, and I know that you will be with us in Kielce any moment now, which has incurred enormous costs of adapting schools to the needs of 6-year-olds? These are not only classes, they are also equipment, toilets or, for example, infrastructure investments, such as. construction of playgrounds. Mikołaj Herbst from the Centre of European Regional and Local Studies at the University of Warsaw prepared an analysis, which makes it clear that schools are very well prepared for the reception of six-year-olds. That's what the NIK report says. Local government problems are also difficult to estimate the number of children in schools and kindergartens. Does the Minister have any information on how many schools will have to create mixed classes? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the Minister know...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u193	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u194	...that e.g. in our voivodship 150 teachers will lose their jobs?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u195	I would like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. There is no Member. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome. There isn't any either. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Today we are asking questions about amending the Education Act. This law introduced e.g. the abolition of the previous government's school obligation for children aged 6 years. The preschool obligation for five-year-olds has also been revoked. In the meantime, the press reports that some local governments fund different ways of going to the first class of six-year-olds, offering preventive research or other financial benefits for their parents. I say as a parent: this is a clear discrimination against other students. The question arises: Where did the local governments suddenly find the money, and why haven't they been? And that's a question for the Minister. In order to answer my question and find meaning, one needs to compare a targeted grant for a kindergartener and a grant, a subsidy for a child going to school. First of all, I say this as a parent and I see the welfare of the child. My children had the convenience of not having to go to school at the age of six, but they could have gone at the age of seven. They were extremely gifted, but as a parent, I decided to go to school at the age of 7. I think that this debate is really about the deliberate search for money by local governments, which was already mentioned in 2013. Minister, congratulations on the amendment of the bill. It's very good for the family, for the baby, because it's probably the most important thing, and the middle school is bad, and I say it as a mother of four children and I've been through this period when really young people were lost. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you so much for the amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u197	Thank you very much, Member. We've run out of time, ladies and gentlemen, to ask questions in two minutes for 30 Members. Therefore, I will allow the other Members to vote because there are still a lot of them left, but they will have one minute after that, because we are already prolonging this time. Therefore, I will allow the Minister to speak longer if necessary. Mrs Bożena Henczyca is not here. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice. Remember, one minute and that's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the process of the education system law and after it was passed, many local governments were facing difficulties in the lack of places in kindergartens, he claimed that when six-year-olds stay in kindergarten, there would be no seats for three-year-olds, and when three-year-olds were accepted, there would be no seats for six-year-olds. The child's welfare was ignored in these complaints and that parents should decide whether the child can go to school early. I will refer here to Mrs Leszczyna's statement and reverse her statement. Because today a parent can say this: My child is ready and my child can go to school, not as it was said. Back to the local government, there were also concerns about the number of places in kindergartens in my town. And what did it turn out to be? I got the information from yesterday. In kindergartens in Legnica after completion of recruitment there are still places available and additional recruitment is conducted. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Is it [[♪ The bell ♪]] the correctness of many local governments... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u199	Thank you very much. Please ask Mrs Ewa Szymańska to ask... She's already been there. Sorry, we've got it. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u200	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In preparing for today's debate, I reached for the last number of the prestigious or even the writings of the local government, which is the Community, and there on the cover I found such a quote from the Minister's statement from the interview in this letter. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: No, interpretation of the author.]] That's right, local governments hide the number of places in schools. I would like to ask, on what basis does the Minister make such a statement, not even, but an accusation which actually causes outrage in the local government environment. I'm just worried, Minister, or the ministry you're running has real data. Because even by listening to this debate today and your information, when you said that in relation to 2013, when the number of kindergarteners accumulated, we are dealing with a significant drop in preschool children of 200 and 300 thousand... According to the Central Statistical Office, and I read these data, a year later the number of pre-school children fell by less than 10,000, and those who are covered by pre-school care is not 200 and 300 thousand, but 60 thousand. So I'm just worried, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure you have... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u201	Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz. The Member is absent. Therefore, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u202	Minister! The change in age related to educational obligation has resulted in specific systemic effects, namely the shortage of places for three-year-olds in kindergartens and the effect of an empty yearbook in schools, which will move in the system until the end of the school's educational path. There is a reasonable expectation that MEN will present specific knowledge of these effects on the educational network, the state of staff and the finances of local authorities. After all, these data can be determined even through focus studies or simulations. When such data are available, e.g. for Members, for self-governments, where will they be familiar? After all, they are very important for the design of further changes and a fair discussion about them. The discussion is going on, and now it's happening without this data. And then there's the debate. Is Opolskie Voivodship an exception? I have not received information about the debate organised by the government in the region, and I would like to take part in such a debate. Thank you very much. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: 9 May.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The organisation of preschool education is the responsibility of the municipalities themselves. Municipalities are obliged to provide preschool facilities for all eligible children. Minister, does the Education Act give local government units the opportunity to benefit from the resources available to non-public kindergartens, under conditions established by a local government unit within the limits laid down by the law? And one more question, maybe so rhetorical. But I would like to ask the Minister once again to confirm that the grant from the state budget is for every preschool child, including anyone who benefits from preschool education in a non-public kindergarten. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Education is an important area of our public life. The credibility of the authorities in this area is very important and my question concerns credibility, Minister. Firstly, the Law and Justice of Elections went with a program that was accepted by the majority of the population. My question is: What does the implementation of this programme look like at this time? Because it's known that there were a lot of these elements. Secondly, we, the Law and Justice, spoke before the elections about the fact that we have some solutions, but there will be consultations. And the second question is, what's the matter with the consultation? On the other hand, the third question is addressed to all of us, but also to the Minister: Are we aware that we are going to pursue what society expects? Not what any group thinks, because democracy is also the will of the majority. And is it [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's gonna be... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u207	I ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In Warsaw, especially in districts where more children are born and raised, there are no places for six-year-olds both in schools and in kindergartens. This is often a dramatic situation for parents. It is regrettable after many conversations with parents and educational staff that this is a persistent and malicious action of the local authorities of Warsaw, [[Applause]] who wish to demonstrate that they are unable to implement the programme of this government. It is shameful for the President of Warsaw to fight against six-year-olds in the city, which is the richest city, and to create a situation when 6-year-old children cannot start their schooling obligation. Minister! What measures are you going to take to improve the situation of parents and above all six-year-olds in Warsaw's capital city? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u209	Please take the floor as the representative of the applicants, Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! Minister! First of all, of course, I wanted to thank both all those who wanted to spend so much time on this debate and, of course, the Minister for the first answers, but I also wanted to address questions and answers, but I also wanted to express my further doubts. Firstly, I still have this feeling of uncertainty, also after the first part of this debate, the uncertainty that accompanies the children who accompany the parents who accompany the teachers. Children don't really know what form they're going to learn in the next few years, parents don't know where their children are going to go to school, and it's hard for them to plan anything, parents of 3-year-olds aren't sure if their children will ever find a place in kindergartens. We also have the situation of teachers. This group is probably the most concerned, because not only this year's changes related to age change, but also changes planned for the future, i.e. changes related to the organisation, with the school system, can be very disturbing to them. In particular, changing primary schools from six to four maybe with an extension of integration education means that all primary education teachers can really look for work in the future. The extension of secondary education and secondary education in high school really doesn't help much, because let's remember that in the situation of lower secondary education, these schools provide hours, of course, to their previous teachers, not to teachers taken over from other types of schools. On the other hand, I would like to address the issue of consultations which are currently being conducted by the Ministry of National Education. I had the opportunity to attend one of these consultations, a security consultation. They took place this week in Łódź, so I went for them. It turned out that it was not really easy to call them consultations at all. A situation where we don't have any projects so far, no ideas on what the issue is supposed to be like. ensuring safety in schools, and the consultation consists in giving their own opinions - there were two school heads and one local government representative - it is difficult to call consultation at all. Of course, those in the Chamber could comment on what they thought about safety, but it did not have any coherent character, nor was there any material on which to work. There was a deep feeling that it was about creating the appearance that these consultations were taking place at all. If we add further attention to the subject of these consultations, namely security, financing, vocational training and special education, it will be quite clear that in no way can these debates lead to a coherent view of society, people interested in the subject, how the school system is supposed to look like. If we pay attention to what the panels are doing, these panels are the basis for programming, pre-school education, general education, vocational training, role of parents, external examinations, professional training, educational role of school and place of history at school. Okay, first note, then. The Minister referred to the fact that Members are not taking part in these panels. I asked the Minister to make this available to us and invite us to these panels so that we could participate in them when we can and want to. I didn't get this invitation until today. I understand that the Member of the Civic Platform has managed to take part in a panel, but let me be honest with you that I am disappointed to some extent that, however, you did not first ask all the members of the Education Committee, in particular the bureau of the Education Committee, to take part in these panels. Next line. Self-governments complain that they don't really consult with them. In addition to those debates which are less devoted to what they would be interested in, no one really consults with them about changes in the school system. On the other hand, when it comes to changing school age, I would like to remind you that there was no consultation, because the whole change in the idea consisted in referring to the program "Save the little ones, that is to say, the loud scream of the Elbanowskis who were heard, but all those parents who have been very positive about their children's participation in education since the age of 6. They were not heard by local authorities, they were not primarily heard by educational experts, whom no one asked for their opinion. So that, if I were to assess both what is currently happening in the area of education, as well as the plans of the Ministry regarding what they want to do or not, because we don't really know what the plans are for the coming years, I would still evaluate them with the words: chaos, mess and threat, the threat that is present in the thinking of all parents, teachers and children. Really repeated lies about good change doesn't make it a fact. [[Applause]] [[But don't overdo it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u211	Thank you, Member. I will ask the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I start answering your questions, I just want to draw attention to some intellectual contradiction in the discussion, because we either want debates, or we want a draft bill ready, or we want analyses, or we want ready-made focus studies, or we want a discussion, or next week, in writing. That's what we need to figure out, ladies and gentlemen. So let's separate six-year-olds from what's going on right now. Six-year-olds - in December there was indeed a parliamentary project, several times we discussed it, I told you why it was a parliamentary project, precisely because local governments, teachers, parents would prepare for a new school year. There is absolutely no chaos, ladies and gentlemen, there is a bill. Let's settle this. There is a draft law where it is clearly stated how this amendment should be carried out. And this change was defined by the parents. Almost 80%, these simulations, he says he wants a six-year-old to stay in kindergarten, to study there. Why do parents not want their children to go to these beautiful, renovated classrooms to play in these beautiful backyards and playgrounds? Well, that's because those forced parents in these cumulative double yearbooks already know how this change and the compulsion that a six-year-old is going to go to school looks like. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, there are actually a lot of half-truths, a lot of aggression, a lot of emotion and arrogance, especially from those who are responsible for what we are discussing right now. This is a few dozen debates, 16 voivodships. At the moment, procedures related to the election of curators have ended. Curators meet with school heads, they come to the ministry. We will struggle to get the school out of bureaucracy, which is in the evaluation for several tens of millions, and the project will continue for the next four years. There will be meetings of parents, students. I'm also going to the young people. I'm talking to the young people. There will be a discussion about the professional improvement of teachers, because it is these teachers that need to be kept in the system, that is the highest concern when we are discussing demographic poverty. How can teachers not lose their jobs? Just 2 million over a dozen years will cause an absolute uncontrolled disaster. And don't let the public know that teachers will lose their jobs in terms of reform or dedication to their parents. That's not true. Teachers from the market were employed for a double cumulative yearbook. They all have fixed-term contracts. You have to be honest when you're writing and talking to local government officials so they can answer. At the same time, there would no longer be such a yearbook, 560 thousand, just doubled. This is all good data, Mr Protasiewicz, you are the only one counting the yearbook, and we are using data on children who were in kindergarten at all. From here, you and I are right. At the same time, I would like to refer to this manipulation of the Community. You've read, I understand, the whole article. You're a polishist like me, and you know that from this article exactly the opposite is true, and that's not my quote. It's just an interpretation, indeed, of your editor. He has made such a decision, I have no objection to it, indeed I must explain it, because - referring to what Mrs Hrynkiewicz said - I am actually only remembering Warsaw. Thank you in this article for your support, because even if you say... Because the Platform was ordered to send letters to local government actually already in December and January. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's honestly say again what kind of data you're talking about, since we're in the middle of recruiting. What kind of teacher layoffs are you talking about, how is the staff movement until the end of May? The integrity of the debate at least requires us to say that we should go back to it when we have all the data from the system, right? I'm being honest. This is the end of August - first data, 30 September - another, if we save the educational information system, please, because please review the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. I'm very serious about reporting to the D.A. about what was done with the educational information system. Therefore, as Mrs Szymańska said, most local governments have managed, they have a clear provision. Attention - here, too, honesty, especially the honesty of the former Minister of Education or the former Deputy Minister of Finance - please countries, what money they have taken and the loss of 10, 13 or 6 million countries are talking about? 2016, education subsidy is unambiguous. Let me remind you that education is such a financial tool, Madame, that you can even take it on the road. [[I didn't say anything about subsidies.]] But we're talking about a subsidy that at the moment, in 2016, doesn't care where a six-year-old is, right? Because there's money for a six-year-old, no matter where he's gonna be, in kindergarten or school, just as high as at school. I ask you to talk to the treasurer in Radom, because perhaps the local government has bad information here. Besides, I'd love to talk to you in Radom, too. I'm asking you concretely, ladies and gentlemen, because when we talk to local government officials, it turns out that the situation is completely opposite. In Warsaw, we were bouncing around the neighborhood, because the mayors finally said, "Yes, well, of course." Of course there is a problem with kindergartens, but I would like, especially the ladies of Modern Poland, feminists, to invite: maybe together we will go to the office of the capital city, [[Applause]] to a woman, to President Gronkiewicz-Waltz, who has the task of building a kindergarten? Young people come to Warsaw to work, give birth, to our satisfaction and happiness, to children, and have housing estates in which there is no idea at all for kindergartens. Even when making infrastructure decisions, it is enough to say, it is enough to make such a condition that two kindergartens are to be included in the planning of the residential area in a strict state. So this is the task of the municipality itself, to which the municipality takes taxpayers' money. Let's be honest in this discussion. And yet 1600 million from the Ministry, the state budget, because it is the budget adopted by the High Sejm, and my unambiguous declaration of support, because, as the Members of the PSL have rightly shown, there is drama in the country. I remember such a debate in Krakow, the uncle gets up irritated, because that is the atmosphere, right, these changes: But Minister, I only have one child in my yearbook. Sir, please don't be nervous. Tell me how much you'd have had if you were six years old and hadn't been six years old. Free to make a decision. Two. [[Exactly.]] That proves it, ladies and gentlemen, what's going on. On the one hand, we have a demographic disaster in small towns. That's why we're talking about a standard, a small scale, that's what we're discussing with local government and at the same time we're talking about support for small schools and the definition of small schools. We speak honestly, and I ask you very much, Mrs President - we generally agree - that you should pay attention to my unambiguous declaration, which is what we care most about education subsidies, just about a six-year-old. As far as other processes are concerned, countries which are linked to recruitment have not changed. I understand that last year there was chaos, it was, indeed, because forced children, forced parents had to run through psycho-pedagogical clinics to postpone it. I remind you - almost 100,000, please do not talk about any empty yearbook, and almost 20% of the declared children who will eventually go to the first grade. At the same time, I am addressing Mrs Szumilas here, I am familiar with this study of your professor, but the professor did not foresee your actions there, that is, he did not foresee that, firstly, it is possible to force the parent's decisions, secondly, to force and introduce an unprepared child, thirdly, that there are places like Poland my beloved, in which my consent for two changes is not given. In Białołęka - this is a district, and the mayor was in Cracow at the European Congress of Local Governments and actually started to talk about her schools, also screaming - we have 1000 children in one school, in the second class 17 branches, in the first class 17 branches, and the cafeteria is for 50 people. You can't take a break with these kids. It's okay to leave. These children walk according to a certain rhythm after [[♪ The bell ♪]] The hallway so they don't hurt each other.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u213	Minister, do you need an extension of your time?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u214	So, ma'am, I'm asking you not to use... Please?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u215	Extensions?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u216	Yeah, five more minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u217	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u218	Thank you. So please don't use such a language when we're talking about children, because you know very well that this is a transitional period for children and parents who are traumatized by your decisions. And don't really worry about that money spent on school. This is what school is supposed to look like, but - as I said - it was not enough argument for parents, since they decided that children are learning in kindergarten. Teacher raises. What I'm trying to say is, for now, I'm worried about not having teachers fired. At the same time, when we talk about money, whether the subsidy will be higher or lower, I can say this to mathematics in particular: the numerator, the denominator, if the number of children changes, then the Member knows exactly what is happening with the amount of the grant - it simply increases. So let's look at this subsidy and think about how we should analyze it, because it's artificial. We're discussing that, too. There are teams working at the Ministry on in-depth analysis. And, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about these debates, local governments are involved. Every local government can have a session of the city council, where there will be a point about worries and concerns. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] Normally you log on to the Ministry's website, there's everything you know, there's invitations for everyone, and voivodships get an extra invitation. Opole 9 May - I'm sure you will receive such an invitation. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I have something to comment on. I am a little sorry because I would like to discuss education without political emotions, unfortunately the Civic Platform and the PSL involve such emotions. Mr Nowak talked about the fact that I have disappeared from any debate. No, ladies and gentlemen, to the surprise of the teachers who sometimes leave, right, after the panel I am the last coming out of such a debate. Few of this, on the way to Warsaw, I usually still go to some group of self-governments. In the case of Poznań on the way I was in Turku at a very big meeting, because the local government wanted it. We're ready, ladies and gentlemen, we already have the matrices where we collect all this information. In the first place, they will be given to the former Deputy Minister to see what a social diagnosis is. Again, do not force us to withdraw from the social debate. What 4x4? We're not making a decision, we're listening to the public. [[Voice from the room: Because we can.]] I know it's shocking, but we put on every piece, and then we'll be somewhere along the way, halfway, and we'll tell you how long it'll take. We have our ideas, but first we listen to the citizens. And the twenty-seventh will also be criticizing these ideas, which will result from these debates. At the same time, we were talking about special schools. Again, there is a team that not only works on basics, there are a lot of parents who are involved, but it is also about getting money for special education back into education, because it's not so much that it's in the around budget bill. The best education system in Europe - I will ignore this with silence, because I participate very precisely in debates. I remind you, PISA is not an indication of the state of the education system. This PISA, which is now placed on the banners, highlights rather the difficulties of our society and our 15-year-olds in solving problems. That's why we're in such trouble at math school. Let me remind you that 30% is the threshold that talks about passability. And again, if we are discussing, ladies and gentlemen, about the combined classes, there are several thousand of these combined classes. That's what the world looks like with demographics. The question was how we wanted to work on demographics. Ladies and gentlemen, among others. 500+, but also kindergartens and nursery. I have declared - and you will hear this, because right now we are talking to several banks and financiers - that we want to introduce a specific kind of funding for local government officials, not to argue with them, but to build kindergartens where they are needed, even though it is a community's own task. We want to support them in these activities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The classes are already connected. Ladies and gentlemen, a few thousand...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u219	Thank you very much, Minister. I've extended my time by five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u220	Let me just add that I will answer the questions in writing. I hope that we will meet, ladies and gentlemen, in September and say that it is very good that we respect the freedom of parents and that we will change the system together in this House. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u221	Thank you very much, Minister, for speaking. On the correction of Ms Krystyna Shumilas. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u222	This system will change the PiS at night at hours. 24 other than any opportunity to participate in the debate. [[But what kind of hat is that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u223	Member, this was supposed to be a corrigendum, not a comment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u224	But I wanted to correct you, Madame Minister... [[This is a hat, not a correction.]] Minister, I mean, you admit that research into secondary years is true, that secondary years hurt children and that you allow these children to be harmed. As Minister of Education, you allow it. [[I have to perform.]] The Civic Platform never encouraged children to be harmed in the system, leaving them for the second year in the same class. [[Applause]] [[What nonsense? What about the signatures, what about the referendum?]] Parents decided to keep their children in kindergartens because they didn't know what was waiting for a child in school: an empty yearbook for 12 years, bringing them to schools not in their area. Those are the lines... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...which also bothers your parents.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u225	You're welcome, Minister, because I see you want to refer to this. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm just one short sentence: it's just manipulating my words. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Exactly. Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u227	Thank you very much. These speeches shall conclude the examination of this item on the agenda. Two messages. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - conformity assessment and market surveillance systems, - amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and certain other Acts, - on the safety of trade in explosives precursors. The reports shall be printed in no. 416, 417 and 415 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. I propose that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on these items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The European Union Commission has submitted a report on a draft resolution on the recognition of a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws (Print No. 382). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a government bill amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws contained in Seym Print No. 382. Draft law amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws amending the article. 176 The Labour Code was drawn up to ensure the correct transposition of the provisions of the 2006 Directive. of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in the field of employment and occupation, and with a view to adapting the authorisation to the requirements of Article. 92 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Work on the project started in 2014. The project was then in inter-ministerial arrangements, public consultation. However, the previous Parliament has not adopted solutions, which is why this project is being presented again today. He also passed the inter-ministerial arrangements. At the moment, it is still being examined within the Social Dialogue Council. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the current wording of the article. 176 The Labour Code must not employ women in work that is particularly burdensome or harmful to health. In that provision, the Council of Ministers has been empowered to establish a list of such work by means of a regulation. From the sound of the article. 176 The Labour Code shows that it applies to all women, not just pregnant and breastfeeding women. On the basis of this provision, it would therefore be possible to introduce far-reaching restrictions on the employment of all women, which, according to the European Commission, constitutes an obstacle to gender equality. The European Commission has expressed its opinion that the general prohibition on women's employment in work which is particularly burdensome or harmful to health is not justified in the context of EU rules on equal treatment between men and women in terms of access to employment, vocational training and promotion and working conditions. In the Commission's view, there is no reason to believe that health-related work poses a particular risk to women's health and that it is more harmful to women than to men. A similar argument applies to particularly burdensome work. The European Commission has pointed out that, according to the case law of the European Court of Justice, women must not be excluded from specific work on the grounds that public opinion will require stronger protection for men against the risks which affect men and women to the same extent and which do not relate to the specific protection requirements for women, in particular in relation to pregnancy and maternity. In general, the exclusion of women from certain positions due to a general threat which is not specific to women does not fall within the limits of permitted differences in the treatment of women and men in employment. The draft law put forward by the government explicitly includes the above ban on pregnant and breast-feeding women. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the designed § Article 1 176 The Labour Code states that pregnant women and breast-feeding women will not be able to carry out work that is burdensome, dangerous or harmful to health, which may adversely affect women's health, pregnancy or breast-feeding. The Regulation of the Council of Ministers will establish a list of work that women who are pregnant and breast-feeding will not be able to carry out. This list will include work which may have an adverse effect on the health of women, pregnancy or breast-feeding of the child due to the manner and conditions of carrying out such work or because it involves excessive physical exercise. The current 1996 regulation will still apply for a maximum period of 9 months from the date of entry into force of the Article. 176. Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 10 September 1996 on the list of work which is particularly burdensome or harmful to the health of women concerning the performance of work related to excessive physical effort, including the manual movement of burdens by non-pregnant women or during breast-feeding, will now be moved to the regulation of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy of 14 March 2000 on health and safety at work in the field of transport by hand. The consequence of the amendment to the Article. 176 The Labour Code will be amended by the Act of 21 November 1967 on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and the Act of 11 September 2003 on military service of professional soldiers. It will also be necessary to issue a new regulation on the basis of a revised Article. 48 (1) (a) 9 Act of 21 November 1967 on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When passing on the proposal to the High House for consideration, I ask that it be dealt with in the relevant Parliamentary Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u229	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Jan Mosiński to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present to the High House a position vis-à-vis the Government's draft Labour Code Act and certain other laws, print No 382, intended to ensure the correct transposition of the provisions of Directive 2006/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in the field of employment, and to adapt the authorisation to the requirements of the Article. 92. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The current wording of the Article will change as proposed. 176 The Labour Code, according to which women should not have been employed for work that is particularly burdensome or harmful to health. This provision applies to all women, whereas the Regulation adopted on the basis of it concerns mainly pregnant women and breastfeeding children. As pointed out in the explanatory memorandum, the European Commission has raised objections to this provision, recognising that it is incompatible with the provisions of the Directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion and working conditions. In the opinion of the European Commission, Art. 176 The Labour Code, referring to all women, and not just pregnant and breastfeeding women, is an obstacle to gender equality, particularly as regards access to employment. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the proposed changes. New wording of the article. 176 The labour code explicite, and thus clearly, clearly, will specify that pregnant women and breast-feeding women must not be employed for work that is burdensome, dangerous or harmful to health if these work can have an adverse effect on women's health, pregnancy or breast-feeding. It should be stressed that the existing wording of the Article. 176 The Labour Code did not specify that the ban on such work concerned only pregnant women and breast-feeding women. The Law and Justice Club recognises the need to cover pregnant women and women who are breastfeeding with special protection. Thus, we protect the mother and her offspring, we protect the family that is a relationship between a man and a woman, we protect the children conceived and born. In other words, we are in line with Council Directive 92/85 of October 1992 of the European Economic Community on measures to promote improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers, workers who have recently given birth and breastfeeding workers. At the same time, we call on the government to ensure that the list of work that pregnant women and breastfeeding women will not be able to carry out is fully in line with the intentions set out in Council Directive 92/85 of the European Economic Community. Proposed amendments to the Article. 176 The Labour Code and some other laws will make it necessary to amend the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and the Act on the Military Service of Professional Soldiers. Both laws will include prohibitions on women from carrying out their duties, duties or duties which are dangerous, harmful or burdensome to health during pregnancy or breastfeeding. Finally, it should be stressed that the European Commission raised objections to the legislation as early as 2014. It is only regrettable that for almost two years the previous government has not attempted to amend the Labour Code and the Regulation so that they are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the recommendations of the European Commission. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In summary, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the new draft law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws contained in print No 382. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u231	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor of Izabela Mrzygłock, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the government's draft of amendments to the Labour Code described in Seym printing No. 382. High Izbo! The purpose of this law is clear. In line with the guidelines of the European Community, it is intended to align the situation of women and men on the labour market and, at the same time, to indicate what kind of obligations cannot be entrusted to pregnant women or breast-feeding women. We are all aware that the health and safety of these workers must be taken into account in a special way. However, when considering these issues, it is worth considering another group of people who, as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of Directive 92/85/EEC, should be particularly protected. It's about workers who have recently given birth, but they don't breast-feed. The reasons for this can be different: from the worldview, because some women choose artificial food for their children, for unfortunately tragic reasons. It should therefore be considered whether the protection should be extended to at least some of the workers in this group. As we know from the justification of this project, the Confederation of Leviathan raised an important issue concerning the Ministry's list of prohibited work for pregnant women and lactating women. The attached draft implementing acts are largely copies of the current provisions adapted to the new provisions of the Labour Code. It would be useful to discuss these issues so that changes do not result in a greater disincentive for employers to employ young women. In view of these doubts, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request that the project be directed to further work in the parliamentary committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15, has the floor now. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u234	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act, print No. 382. The proposed amendment concerns Article. 176 Labour Code. Current wording of the article. 176 states that women must not be employed for work that is particularly burdensome or harmful to health. It is proposed to change by stating that pregnant and breast-feeding women will not be able to carry out work that is burdensome, dangerous or harmful to health, which may adversely affect women's health, pregnancy or breast-feeding. It is also proposed to clarify the mandate for the Council of Ministers to establish, by means of a regulation, a list of works which may have adverse effects on the health of women, the course of pregnancy or breast-feeding of a child related to excessive physical effort, including the manual transport of weights, due to the manner and conditions in which these works are carried out, taking into account the nature of the working environment and the level of their occurrence. The aim of the proposal is to align our right with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in the field of employment and occupation, and to adapt the authorisation to the requirements of the Article. 92. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 supports the proposed amendments only because the explanatory memorandum to the bill contains a statement of maintenance in the relevant regulations of the list of work prohibited from other women, i.e. non-pregnant or non-feeder. Kukiz, 15, states that all women should be treated with respect and in a special way, because they simply deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u235	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor of Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed draft amendment referred to in this draft law is to implement the recommendations of the European Union Directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion and working conditions. The draft of these amendments also takes into account the judgment of the Constitutional Court in this case, which required the legislator to adapt the article. 176 Labour Code to the requirements of Art. 92. 1 the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and aims to regulate the principles of equal treatment in the Labour Code. European Union law is founded on the prohibition of discrimination. Women and men must have equal rights, especially in the labour market. Equality must concern access to employment, training, promotion or working conditions. Equality between men and women is a fundamental principle, and the Treaty on European Union also defines equality between men and women as an objective of the Community and imposes a positive obligation to support it in all its activities. The Court of Justice has always consistently recognised the right to protect the biological condition of pregnant women as well as those who are breastfeeding, and these conditions have been taken into account in the proposed amendment to the Labour Code. This does not exclude pregnant women and breastfeeding women from the labour market, but rather protects them, which the Modern will always support as a direction for development in the labour market. Moreover, the Court consistently held that the unfavourable treatment of women linked to pregnancy or maternity constitutes direct discrimination on grounds of sex. According to European regulations, each person has the right to equality and protection against discrimination. This opinion is also expressed in many judgments by the European Court of Human Rights, among others. In its judgment of 2 December 2014 concerning the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sex, he explained that equal treatment between men and women must be objectively and reasonably justified and that promoting gender equality is currently one of the main objectives in the Member States of the Council of Europe. Therefore, these changes, this regulation are obvious and necessary. At the same time, the modern proposal is to refer the project to work in committee in order to bring it into line with the regulations arising from the health and safety rules that my previous speaker mentioned and to refine the details on the verification of pregnant women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas from the club of the Polish People's Party now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u238	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position on the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws, print No. 382. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the provisions of the Labour Code is dictated by the need for proper implementation of the regulations contained in Directive 2006/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. It is the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in employment and employment. The amendment consists in clarifying the Article. 176 The Labour Code, which states that work which is burdensome, dangerous or harmful to health cannot be performed by pregnant women and breast-feeding children. In the Code of Labour in Art. 176 § 2 An authorisation has been given to the Council of Ministers to issue a regulation listing the work that pregnant and breastfeeding women will not be able to carry out because they could adversely affect their health, pregnancy or breast-feeding. It's about work related, among others. with excessive physical effort, including manual transport of weights, or the conditions under which the work is carried out. The proposed provisions will make it necessary to amend the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and the Act on the military service of professional soldiers. Both laws will include prohibitions on women from carrying out their duties, duties or duties which are dangerous, harmful or burdensome to health during pregnancy or breastfeeding. Ladies and gentlemen! The change dictated by proper understanding of standards and the need to remove discrimination on grounds of gender in access to work, indicated by the European Parliament, is absolutely right, and therefore the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support the bill presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u239	Thank you very much. Three Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of enlisted Members. I'm setting the time - one minute. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The implementation of the amendment of the law in this area is the right direction, but the most important will be ministerial regulations setting out inter alia. a list of work that is particularly burdensome, dangerous or harmful to the health of pregnant or breast-feeding women. And here employers are calling for great caution, as the group of women referred to in the regulation already has difficulties in the labour market. The changes introduced and the regulations following them may cause further problems for entrepreneurs to organise work for women who are lactating or pregnant and, consequently, may reduce the willingness to employ women, in particular those who return to work after the birth of a child or who are pregnant. As we know, the current rules guarantee them e.g. shorter working time [[♪ The bell ♪]] with a feeding break. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Will the implementing acts being drawn up in the intention of the Ministry and in line with social expectations be widely consulted with employers' organisations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u241	Thank you very much, Member. The question is now asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Government's draft law amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws provides for amendments leading to the harmonisation of state legislation with European Union legislation. These are very good changes in the current situation. I have two short questions. Does the Ministry have data on employers' compliance with existing legislation on the protection of pregnant and breastfeeding women? What possible sanctions are planned for employers who do not comply with these rules? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u243	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Anna April from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The proposed change, I think, is expected because the principle of equality between men and women is an essential principle that should be respected. However, there is a need for common sense here and a strong balance on the related issues that will be included in the implementing acts, particularly here I am thinking about regulations, because women's health is the health of future generations. The list of these works must balance issues related both to enabling women to enter the labour market and to securing this very important need to maintain women's health, because it is women who are mostly... [[They're having babies.]] ... they determine the health of all our generations in the future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope that this regulation will balance this principle. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u245	Thank you very much. Now you ask Rafał Wójcikowski from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! State Representatives of the Government! I would like to ask you a question about the revision of the Labour Code. Has anything changed in biology? Because I understand that the previous rules that said that certain professions could not be pursued by women were not introduced because we had a chauvinist Labour Code which prohibited women from working, only for certain medical, biological reasons. It was simply a risk and a loss of health, of life, of various elements of common sense. I understand that biology has changed and the EU Parliament, the European Parliament, has agreed that now there are no more of these elements, they have disappeared, biology has changed. Now women can do any profession, there's no reason why not. My question is this: What will be the financial consequences for the National Health Fund if we introduce unconditionally the rules that we want to introduce, based only on the political correctness of equality, and not on the gender specificities of certain specific professions by women? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u247	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for all the club speeches, for supporting the project. Briefly, as regards the speech by Mrs Katarzyna Mrzygłocka concerning the extension of protection to women after the birth of a child who do not feed. We are in position, and the European Commission has not pointed out in this regard that maternity leave is the most important protection after the birth of the child, and this protection is ensured. The questions you have asked are mainly about the proposed regulation, because this is the most important issue which actions will be included in the regulation, which cannot be carried out by pregnant women or nursing women. This regulation is annexed to the draft law. It will, of course, be subject to consultation after the adoption of the law, so that all these proposals, the concerns you have raised here, will be taken into account. There's one thing. We want to keep this level of protection as it is today. Here we are not making some revolutionary change, but the protection that is being applied will be preserved. This is about ordering the situations that the European Commission is drawing attention to, i.e. the level of protection for pregnant women, lactating women and women taking up work, will be preserved. This will be a little different, mainly the regulation. So that's the purpose of this statutory change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u249	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws contained in print No 382 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 10 May 2016. We proceed to item 14 of the agenda... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Since there is no minister to present the project, I am announcing a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min 53 hours 13 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. You're already a minister, and we're going to proceed with the point. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws (print No 367). I will ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Marian Banasi to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The governmental bill amending the Tax Order and some other laws, print No 367, provides for the amendment of three laws: Tax Order, Law on proceedings before administrative courts and the Act on tax on goods and services. The subject of the project is the introduction of a anti-tax avoidance clause in the Polish legal order. The project serves to seal the tax system. The anti-tax avoidance clause was already part of the Polish legal system in the past. In 2003 a tax code was introduced into the Tax Order, which was then called a tax circumvention clause. The Constitutional Tribunal held in its judgment of 2004 that a provision containing a clause was incompatible with the Constitution. Importantly, the Constitutional Tribunal then questioned only the legislative inclusion of the clause, not the very idea of combating tax avoidance by means of a clause. It is now necessary to return to this idea and implement it. The experience of Poland and other countries so far shows that the double taxation agreements themselves are not sufficient to effectively prevent tax avoidance. The standard in other economically developed countries is a general clause against tax avoidance or an developed line of case law against tax fraud. The European Commission has highlighted the risks of tax avoidance by recommending Member States to implement anti-fraud measures. Poland is one of the few countries that have not yet implemented such solutions. The Polish tax system is not immune to tax avoidance measures. On the contrary, with the progress of integration of the Polish economy into the world economy, it must be assumed that pathological behaviour already diagnosed and combated in other countries will also be more intense and severe for public finances in Poland. The consulting sector has been very active in the creation, promotion and implementation of tax avoidance schemes in recent years. Avoiding taxation is not only dangerous to public finances, but, equally important, it violates equal taxation, giving the opportunity to build unfairly market advantages over companies wishing to pay fair taxes in Poland. The introduction of a tax avoidance clause will at the same time set a limit for permissible tax optimization. The clause will have a positive impact on market competitiveness and ensure equal treatment of taxable persons engaged in economic activities. The proposed solutions take into account the recommendations of the Constitutional Court and the recommendations of the European Commission of December 2012 and benefit from the experience of other countries in combating tax avoidance. As regards the procedures for applying the clause, the project is mainly based on proven French, Australian, Canadian and British solutions. The draft assumes that the clause will apply to artificial activities carried out primarily in order to achieve a tax advantage contrary to the objective of the Tax Act. The draft proposes that the clause should apply to all taxes, with the exception of goods and services tax. Due to the specific nature of VAT for the purposes of this tax, it is proposed to introduce a definition of abuse of the right to the Act on VAT on goods and services. The proposal introduces a number of protective measures to protect taxpayers' interests from abuse of the clause. The proposal proposes that the clause be applied in the event of a tax advantage exceeding the limit of 100 000. zł. Below this limit, it will not be possible to apply the clause at all. The project provides for the sole competence of the Minister of Finance in the application of the clause, without the possibility to delegate this power to subordinate bodies. This is intended to ensure the correct and uniform application of the clause. The project involves the appointment of an expert body - the Anti-Tax Avoidance Council. The Council's task will be to assess the appropriateness of applying the clause in individual cases. The Council will be composed of representatives of various professional groups. The Council will strengthen the predictability of the application of the clause. The draft provides for the possibility of correcting the declaration in the final stage of the tax avoidance procedure. If this option is exercised, the proceedings will be terminated and the taxpayer will be protected from a dimensional decision. The proposal introduces the possibility for the taxpayer to request a protective opinion from the Minister of Finance. Safeguard opinions will be issued if the legal structure envisaged by the taxpayer is not a tax avoidance. Overcoming the six-month deadline for the opinion will result in the so-called. a silent security opinion - a presumption of a positive settlement of the taxpayer's application. Protective opinions will give a high level of legal certainty if the taxpayer is not sure about the qualification of the planned actions. The amendments proposed in the Law on proceedings before administrative courts provide for the subjecting of protective opinions and amendments to the opinions protecting judicial review. It is important that the proposed solutions enter into force as soon as possible to reduce the tax gap. The project proposes a deadline of 30 days from the date of publication of the law. In presenting the above, I propose that the submitted project be submitted for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u251	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek Sasin, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws, print No 367. The main objective of the proposed amendment is to introduce a tax avoidance clause in Polish legislation, which aims to remedy the situation that we have been observing especially for several years, namely the widening of the tax gap. In fact, all available analyses of research centres analysing the state of public finances indicate that this problem in Poland is a particularly serious problem and causes significant damage to the state budget. At the same time, it should be noted that this globalisation of tax avoidance observed in all developed economies, using different types of cross-border schemes, forces a unified fight against tax avoidance. The experience of Poland so far, but also of other countries, shows that the double taxation agreements themselves are not sufficient to effectively prevent tax avoidance. Therefore, using international experience, including those just mentioned by the Minister, the experience that has proven to be successful in combating tax avoidance, the proposed bill proposes to return to the concept of a tax avoidance clause with the establishment of independent expert and social supervision. The introduction into the Polish legal order of the anti-tax avoidance clause will regulate the tax system, setting limits for permissible tax optimization, and strengthen the autonomy of tax law towards civil law. The anti-tax avoidance clause, as mentioned by the Minister, will apply when measures with the characteristics of aggressive tax optimisation result in a tax advantage exceeding 100,000. zł. Of course, it is also important that this law minimises the effects of the anti-tax avoidance clause's entry into force. The draft therefore proposes to introduce safeguards to enable taxpayers to know the position of the tax administration in relation to the planned or already undertaken transactions for which a clause may be applied. The opinions will assess whether the legal structure envisaged by the taxpayer constitutes an abuse of the freedom to shape legal relations justifying the application of the general anti-tax avoidance clause. Predictability and a balanced application of the clause in individual cases will strengthen the independent opinion panel - Anti-Tax Avoidance Board, the appointment of which is provided for by the proposed bill. Thus, the Polish anti-tax avoidance system will benefit as much as possible from the standards provided for taxpayers with a high degree of legal protection developed by other countries. The formula of security opinions and the expert panel is only available in France, Canada and Australia. The proposed normative inclusion of the anti-tax avoidance clause takes into account the guidelines of the Constitutional Court and the experience of other countries and the recommendations of the European Commission. High Izbo! Given the provisions of the Act, which on the one hand are provisions protecting taxpayers' rights and, on the other hand, those provisions proposed by the government - indeed give hope to increase the revenue of the state budget by eliminating mechanisms that today allow tax evasion... These records therefore appear to be as reasonable as possible. The impact of this law on the state budget can be said to be based on data from other countries where the clause is applied on average in 2 to 90 cases per year. It is estimated that the number of such cases in Poland will not be higher than on average about 46, that is average respect. Decisions taken in connection with the application of the substantive clause will cover significant amounts. Assuming that the amount of the reduction resulting from a single decision will amount to about PLN 2,2 million, the direct financial impact of the application of the clause related to the decisions issued by the Minister of Finance can be estimated at PLN 50 million in 2017 and PLN 100 million in 2018 and in the following years, but the indirect effects will already be on the State budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] much more significant and will range from 1.3 billion PLN to 5.4 billion PLN per year. In view of the above, I request that the proposal be submitted to the High House for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Silchoń from the Civic Platform Club will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u254	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws. I would like to say that in the course of the next revision of the Tax Order, we have repeatedly forgotten - and we really do have a lot behind these amendments - about the fundamental and fundamental rule of tax law-making, i.e. the creation of mechanisms such as legal instruments that would balance the public interest and the interests of the taxpayer, including, above all, the fair taxpayer. It is not easy to create a balance between the public interest and the taxpayer's interests. This can certainly not be done as part of the revision of the ordination. We, here, are talking about the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL, and we understood that and we felt that only the new Tax Order could achieve this balance. Therefore, the decision at one time by Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz to set up the General Tax Law Codification Commission. Sensitive matter such as taxes must certainly be resolved with regard to the interests of the State, but also - which is often forgotten - with respect for the rights of taxpayers. We also know that it is quite common for demands, in my view, to increase the protection of the taxpayer's position in relation to the fiscus. That's what social expectations are all about. It is very difficult to achieve such a level of balance, but it is the duty of every authority - legislative, executive and judicial - to pursue it and this forces the introduction of comprehensive solutions into the Tax Order. The introduction into the Tax Order of only the provisions concerning the anti-tax avoidance clause, without other instruments protecting honest taxpayers, such as the general principles of tax law, the catalogue of rights and obligations of taxpayers, the sovereign forms of action of tax authorities or transparent control and tax procedures, in my view will affect the constitutionally defined balance between the fiscal and the taxpayer. I would like to remind you that the Code-fixing Commission of General Tax Law, which prepared the assumptions adopted by the previous government, has quite clearly formulated the objectives which the codification of general tax law is intended to ensure, and therefore, first of all, the protection of the rights of the taxpayer at the stage of the implementation of tax obligations, second, to increase the efficiency and efficiency of the implementation of tax obligations. The first of these objectives should be achieved by relaxing the excessive rigour of the Tax Order in relation to taxpayers, and the new regulations should comprehensively introduce legal mechanisms to protect the taxpayer's position in his dealings with the tax administration. The second objective, as I said, is to increase the efficiency and efficiency of the implementation of tax obligations. Tax laws, including ordination, are designed to generate tax revenues, and this objective requires - and we are aware of - a number of mechanisms and procedures to increase the capacity of tax authorities. According to the new Tax Order, this increase in efficiency and efficiency in the implementation of tax obligations is intended, inter alia. The creation of a legal framework for better cooperation between tax authorities and the taxpayer is also intended to introduce solutions to encourage taxpayers to correct their mistakes, but also to do so there is a clause against tax avoidance which should increase tax efficiency. It is worth noting that this draft clause has been the subject of the Ministry of Finance's work for several years, in fact the project was ready in 2013, there were multiple arrangements and finally we withdrew. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from this solution, considering that this solution should, however, be built a little wider in the new Tax Order, because the greater efficiency of tax authorities cannot lead to a violation of the rights of the taxpayer, but first of all these rights need to be clearly defined.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u255	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u256	Despite these comments and reservations...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u257	Thank you very much, sir, you have run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u258	...club of the Civic Platform is in favour of directing this project to further work on the committee. I hope we can find solutions, including with regard to detailed records...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u259	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u260	...which the taxpayer's interests will defend sufficiently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u261	Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor now. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are currently debating at first reading whether to introduce a new instrument, commonly used in countries where taxes are high and the state is unable to collect them or to introduce an instrument such as the anti-tax clause. This is a weapon - as you know, every weapon will trigger an anti-weapon sooner or later. And this is a fight - a fight between a taxpayer who doesn't want to pay, it would be best for him if he didn't pay, but he doesn't want to pay too much taxes, and a country that needs taxes to exist, because money other than taxpayers' money the state doesn't have. The fact is, undisputed fact is what the State wrote in the explanatory memorandum, which is a decrease in revenue, especially from income taxes, especially CIT. It is a fact that this tax rate is falling, bypassing instruments, tax optimization are improved year by year and more and more used by companies. We can only wonder how much time effectively, companies spend on how to circumvent taxation and how much on how to compete effectively in the market. There is no doubt that mechanisms are needed to optimise this from the state's point of view, because it is really optimization versus optimization - the state will optimize tax collection and businesses will optimize tax circumvention. State introduces new weapons: bypass clause. We want to work on it, so we will not make a motion for rejection, we will want it to be the subject of a broad debate in the Committee on Public Finances, but - attention needs to be paid - this instrument gives the finance minister a very broad power and a broad interpretation. Of course, the Minister will have the advice behind him. I would like to speak more about this Council because it will be composed of representatives of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Justice, the President of the Court, the staff of universities, the Committee on Territorial Government, tax advisors from the Tax Advisory Council and the representative of the Council of Social Dialogue. There's basically no one there to represent taxpayers, entrepreneurs. There should be representatives of entrepreneurs, there should be another side. If that's fair advice, there should be another side. In my opinion, we have not yet seen the taxpayer's rights spokesperson. There is a spokesperson for the rights of the child, a spokesperson for the rights of women, a spokesperson for the rights of minorities, and there is no Ombudsman for the rights of the taxpayer. Such a spokesman or representative of someone who will defend the taxpayer's interest against this whole bunch of people who are gonna go after his money is also needed, and he's not on this council. There is no social lawyer for the taxpayer, and the other party has the right to defend itself. Decentness would require someone like that to be brought in. I am not sure that a person from the Social Dialogue Council will effectively act as such a lawyer. It's a good thing there's a limit of 100,000, otherwise this council wouldn't have a moment of rest and would probably still be looking at requests for protective opinions, and I'm wondering your forecast. We're making so much noise, we're introducing another repressive instrument, and it's going to be $100 million a year, and it's going to be two years from now. Either you assume in advance that this instrument will be ineffective, or the problem of applying tax optimization you value very poorly and say that you will actually recover only 100 million from it. Or we introduce an instrument that is effective, and we show that we actually can. recover 50% 50% of the amount to be optimised We either admit that we're helpless and put in some advice, maybe we can pull out 100 million, that's all. It's really just gonna be a makeover. It's really just gonna be more PR than the real fight against tax avoidance. Therefore, it would be worth either verifying these forecasts or considering a tool that will be more effective. I will repeat once again: for our part, we call on you to make sure that entrepreneurs have their representatives on this board, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u263	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u264	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I took part in the honor of presenting the position of the Modern Posel Club on the government draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws, print No 367. Undoubtedly, it is appropriate to seek to introduce a tax avoidance clause in the legal system to counteract aggressive tax optimization by eliminating apparent tax avoidance measures. However, it should be noted that there was already an Article in the Tax Order. 24b § 1 constituting a tax evasion clause - slightly different but only a name - which was considered to be non-constitutional in the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2004 in the case of signage. Act K4/03. In that judgment, the Court expressly outlined the framework for future regulation, on which compliance with the tax avoidance clause in the Polish tax system was conditional. And so he considered it to be a violation of constitutional standards, and I quote: the vague and vague formulation of a provision which creates uncertainty for its addressees as to their rights and obligations by creating an overly broad framework for bodies applying such a provision, which in fact must replace the legislator with regard to issues regulated in a vague and vague manner. In addition, in the same judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal also stated that the principle of confidence in the State and the law should apply to the definition of law, in particular where tax law is concerned, allowing only the possibility of introducing the so-called law. General clauses under strict conditions. Unfortunately, despite the assurances made by the Minister, a representative of the Law and Justice Club in this revision of the Tax Order, you did not wish to take the caselaw from the Court's judgment. By submitting a draft tax avoidance clause to the High House, constitutional standards have been grossly violated. The draft amendment raises important concerns about the lack of clear definitions that allow for considerable interpretation by tax authorities, in particular the consideration of the activities carried out by the tax law's objective. The tax law does not define the purpose of the law. I know that you have looked at EU law, only in EU law in tax laws are clearly in the preamble to the defined objectives of these laws. There are no such goals in Polish legislation. Thus, this will create a free interpretation for tax authorities. The method of action was also considered to be artificial on the basis of the criterion of reasonable action, of course set arbitraryly by the tax authorities. Moreover, there are no criteria for determining what is to be understood as the materiality of the economic or economic objectives indicated by the taxpayer in the context of taking steps primarily to achieve tax benefits. This relevance will also only be assessed by the tax authorities. In this situation, it is difficult to assume that the proposed amendment provides certainty about the application of the law, on the contrary - it will only be a source of interpretation differences and the conviction of taxpayers into the sovereignty of the tax authorities, all the more so because it is also introduced by the so-called law. the expert body in the form of the Anti-Tax Avoidance Board, which is in principle to balance the position of the tax authorities, should unfortunately be defined as facade, given that the opinions of that board are optional and that body is appointed solely by the Minister of Finance. It is therefore necessary to fully divide the positions that are already presented in the literature, that the draft amendment is a specific attack on the rights of taxpayers, introduces sanctioned civil self-will. Another security element is in the form of a protective opinion. This opinion shall be subject to a fee of 20 000. zł. This amount of the fee may constitute a barrier to smaller businesses. Also the waiting time for an opinion up to 6 months in our assessment is too long, in particular with regard to the actions planned by the taxpayer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, attention should also be paid to the short period of vacathio legis. In view of the above, as well as the elements related to the reduction of the tax gap, we will request that this law be referred to committee work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u265	Thank you very much. Ms Genowef Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position towards the government draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws, print No 367. The draft law amends the Tax Ordination Act by introducing a new section - section IIIa First of all, I would like to point out that the new rules have been designed so that the services of the finance department apply the anti-tax avoidance clause only to large taxpayers. According to the draft, the clause will not apply to transactions for which the tax advantage will not exceed 100,000. zł. The revision of the Tax Order introduces new definitions, among others. the definition of tax avoidance, which means an action carried out to achieve a tax advantage which, in the circumstances, is contrary to the object and purpose of the Tax Act and the mode of action of the taxpayer is artificial. As examples of artificial activities, unjustified division of operations, involvement of intermediary entities or taking actions whose economic or economic risks outweigh the expected benefits has been identified. In particular, tax avoidance involves abuse of tax preferences, abuse of international agreements, the use of tax havens and the financial benefit of reducing the tax burden, or even tax reimbursement. The introduction of the anti-tax avoidance clause may raise some doubts, may be considered as an attack on the rights of the taxpayer and the freedom to shape the content of contracts. However, a number of positive opinions on the clause should be noted, resulting from assessments of the Supreme Audit Chamber, courts and interpretations of the European Parliament. We must be aware of the existence of even multinational corporations using the weaknesses of tax systems, which have at their disposal tax advisors practicing aggressive tax planning practices that avoid taxation. The negative phenomenon of tax avoidance exists in every market economy country, and the pursuit of paying as low as possible taxes is, after all, a common trend. Similar anti-tax avoidance clauses are now quite common in the world and have been in some countries for decades. The oldest clauses appeared already in the 19th century, e.g. In New Zealand and Australia, Germany introduced this standard in 1919 and later in France. The effect of the clause is the possibility for tax authorities to recover unpaid taxes. Its preventive role also needs to be stressed. Taxpayers are aware of the risks and consequences arising from the correction of the accounts, payment of the tax due together with interest, even in the absence of any other financial penalties. The draft law introducing the clause also establishes an expert and social supervisor on the application of the clause, and this is the Anti-Tax Avoidance Council appointed by the Minister of Finance. The Council's task will be to assess the application of the clause in individual cases, which will contribute to greater objectivity of decisions issued by the Authority. An important novel is also the responsibility of the Minister of Finance to issue the so-called. the protective opinion in which it will state, at the taxpayer's request, whether the activities it reports do not lead to tax avoidance. To sum up, High Izbo, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of transferring the project to further work, because this project, although it raises some doubts, has a pro-state character, sealing the tax system, it is used to combat circumvention of tax law occurring - I will remind you once again - on a large scale, because when this benefit is above 100,000. We also hope that a realistic competitive environment for honest entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u267	Thank you very much. Five Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. [[One and a half minutes, Marshal.]] As the first Mrs Lidia Gądek from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The philosophy of previous governments in the field of tax legislation is fundamentally different from that proposed today by the current office. I would like to remind you that in 2007 and 2015 the Tax Order was introduced among others. the long-awaited principle of resolving doubts in favour of the taxpayer, the possibility of paying with a payment card, mobile payment instruments, the possibility of a tax being paid by a member of the taxpayer's family, the obligation to add a written statement to justify the reasons for the correction has been removed and many other arrangements have been adopted that have been created for the taxpayer, to facilitate his contact with the tax office and to pay taxes and to harmonise the tax system. On the other hand, the changes in the ordination proposed by the PiS, apart from, of course, positive direction, are also intended to seal the tax system, but they treat the taxpayer as some kind of suspect who must prove his innocence and who, in the opinion of the authorities, will do anything to seek [[♪ The bell ♪]] derogations from fiscal policy. In connection with the proposed amendment - I will shorten it - I have two specific questions. Where does such a high amount of remuneration for a protective opinion come from? Why should the Act enter into force only 30 days after the date of publication, since the Constitutional Tribunal has formulated the principle of not amending taxes settled in the annual cycle during the tax year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u269	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question is asked by Mrs Genowef Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poland has already introduced a tax avoidance clause as a tool in the legal system in the past. However, it was very brief. The provision introducing the clause entered into force on 1 January 2003 and already on 11 May 2004 the Constitutional Tribunal ruled in its judgment that it was incompatible with the Article. 2 in conjunction with Article. 217 constitutions. However, when pointing out irregularities, the Court did not give up the admissibility of introducing a clause in the Polish tax system. However, he made certain requirements as to its shape, which should be met if the legislator, or Sejm, again decided to introduce it. And that's what's happening today. I would therefore like to ask whether and how the government project under discussion today is properly prepared, designed for its compatibility with the Constitution and takes into account the Court's observations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that the 2004 situation does not recur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u271	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u272	The clause is needed, but the rules should be improved in the course of further work. However, it is already possible to propose, firstly, an increase in the benefit threshold from which the clause is applied, i.e. more than 100,000, secondly, a safeguard opinion should be cheaper, and certainly should not cost the taxpayer 20,000. thirdly, the opinions of the Anti-Tax Avoidance Council should be mandatory, fourthly, failure by the Council to deliver an opinion should not imply the application of the provision of the Article. 119a, fifthly, the Council's opinions should be published immediately, and, sixthly, I have no doubt that vacathio legis should be much longer. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! In the end, I'm making this formula because I was afraid I wouldn't make it. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u273	Thank you very much. Now you ask Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question is the following. First of all, we focus, I understand, on income tax, but does the tax avoidance clause also apply to the newly introduced taxes of the kind of turnover taxes, income taxes, that is, the tax commonly referred to as banking tax and the one that we are supposed to introduce from 1 June, i.e. the tax on trade income, on commercial services? Will these provisions and decisions of the Council also be applicable here? Because here you will be able to give the Council and the Minister a broad opportunity to point out that companies are carrying out measures to avoid these two newly introduced taxes. Hence my question: Will these taxes also be, so to speak, related to this clause [[♪ The bell ♪]] on tax avoidance? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u275	Thank you very much. As the last question, you are asking Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u276	Minister, I'd like to ask what's next with the new Tax Order. Are the works continued and what is the calendar envisaged by the government when it comes to the bill and its process? On the other hand, about this solution, I have eight questions, I can't ask them all. Pretty much. This proposal differs from what was in the draft of the previous government. This is a question of the definition of the tax avoidance itself, the scope of the entity, also the limit of the benefit. These are things that we'll probably be able to discuss in detail, I hope, on the committee. On the other hand, I would now like to get an answer on the composition of the Anti-Tax Avoidance Council. We assumed that she was to be really independent and, as far as possible, objective. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The composition has clearly changed, it is called by the Minister, not by the Prime Minister, as it was in the submission. Do we have a margin here, i.e. I prefer to change my approach to this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u277	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Marian Banaś. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By addressing the questions asked, I would like to say that as regards the first question concerning the amount of the opinion fees - 20,000. zł, that by our calculations is not an excess amount, it is appropriate to the costs and time involved, so absolutely in this matter we think that this amount should be. With regard to the question of changes in tax laws, I would like to say that in this case we are not dealing with the principle that we do not change tax laws during the tax year, because we are actually amending not tax laws, but the Tax Order, so this rule does not apply in this case. With regard to the vacathio legis of 30 days, it is as much in line with the applicable laws as possible, and we want this law to enter into force as soon as possible due to the subject matter of the case we have been talking about: the avoidance of taxation and the major budgetary losses in this respect. As regards the last question concerning the work of the codification committee, I would like to point out that the codification committee is working on a change of the Tax Order in accordance with the timetable set out in the order of the Council of Ministers. We will answer the remaining questions in detail in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u279	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending the Tax Order and certain other laws contained in print No 367, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the actions resulting from the National Drug Prevention Programme in 2014 (Print No 192) together with the position of the Health Commission (Print No 378). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz to present the information. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u280	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present information on the 2014 National Drug Prevention Programme, which is part of the broader programme foreseen for 2011/2016. This is a continuation of the programme developed in 1999. The actions adopted in the programme are appropriate to identified drug problems, as indicated by the analysis of the data contained in this document. This material is very detailed and consists of two parts. The first part describes the phenomenon of drug addiction from an epidemiological perspective. The latest available data on the dissemination, use of drugs, health and social consequences of drug use and an overall analysis of trends observed are presented. The activities undertaken by the various actors in the implementation of the National Drug Prevention Programme are then described and an analysis of the expenditure incurred in countering drug addiction is presented. The second part of the document, or annexes, contains a table together with the values of monitoring indicators for the implementation of the National Drug Prevention Programme in 2014. Although this document is intended to present the activities undertaken by the individual bodies identified in the Regulation on the National Drug Prevention Programme for the period 2011-2016, the information in question contains an additional summary, conclusions and recommendations on further measures to combat drug addiction. In addition, given the current challenges of drug policy, as for new psychoactive substances, commonly referred to as boosters, the document was supplemented with information on this issue. When analysing the information contained in this document, there is no doubt that areas need to be improved and further stepped up, such as: the need to increase the use of addiction prevention programmes that have been recommended, to develop health harm reduction programmes, to take action on social reintegration, to increase the availability of a substitution treatment programme, to increase the role of local self-government units and to adapt the therapeutic offer to the needs of drug users. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the parameters that have been improved and stabilised as a result of the strategy adopted. It should be noted that, with the exception of cannabis products, the use of drugs in the Republic of Poland remains stable. The use of new psychoactive substances by young people has been reduced three times, so-called. boosters, from 7% in 2010 to 2% in 2013, and the level of use of drugs by young people has been stabilised for drug use. On the other hand, on the basis of a study conducted at the turn of 2014 and 2015 it can be concluded that in the adult population, the proportion of users of cannabis products decreased compared to 2010, indicating that the data in this respect are stable and in the longer term it is possible to halt this phenomenon and to decrease it further. Information on the implementation of the National Drug Prevention Programme in 2014 also provides stable data on the treatment of stationary infectious diseases associated with injecting drug administration and the reduction in deaths due to drug overdose. Improvements in substitution therapy should be highlighted. Although it still doesn't cover 25% opioid addicts, there is an increase in the number of persons covered by this treatment and an increase in the amount of funds allocated to this purpose by the National Health Fund. In addition, an increase in the amount of NFZ funds for outpatient treatment should be noted, as well as an increase in the number of persons participating in programmes to reduce the risk of health and social harm to drug users. One of the key areas of anti-drug prevention is prevention, i.e. all measures aimed at preventing, delaying or reducing the use of psychoactive substances and associated negative effects. Competent government authorities, their supervised institutions and local authorities are required to carry out these tasks. In 2014 local governments of all voivodships carried out activities in the field of prevention of drug addiction. Universal prevention at all levels of school education was one of the priority actions undertaken by 14 voivodships. In addition, programmes in the field of selective prevention and prevention were supported and implemented by government administrations and institutions supervised by them and local authorities. It is also important to mention the numerous activities undertaken by the National Office for the Prevention of Drug Addiction, such as a number of publications, leaflets, brochures, whistleblowers dedicated to promoting healthy lifestyles, prevention of drug addiction, the effects of addiction and the reduction of health damage, also available online. The experience gained from the implementation of the National Drug Prevention Programme for the years 2011 to 2016 is extremely needed in the construction of a new drug strategy. Following the entry into force of the Public Health Act of 11 September 2015, the anti-drug strategy has been incorporated into the current National Health Programme 2016-2020, which is an implementing act for the abovementioned Act. The assumptions set out in this programme include holistic treatment of addictions in the context of public health threats, while identifying actions against particular types of addictions. The current solution aims at improving the cooperation of responsible institutions and integrating actions, which will translate into improving indicators that are not yet satisfactory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u281	Thank you very much, Minister. Now I will ask Mr Tomas Latos to present his position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the committee's position on this matter as the draftsman of the committee. Then there will be a substantive discussion between clubs. At first I would like to say that the committee's position is positive, we request that the information proposed in print No 192 be adopted, information on the implementation of the measures resulting from the 2014 National Drug Prevention Programme. We, of course, refer to a story here and we assessed at the committee meeting not the current situation, from 2016, but a certain historical situation. [[Member of Beat Małecka-Libera: 2014.]] We will also soon evaluate the 2015 report. The discussion was more or less the same as in previous years. In fact, I have the privilege of being the committee's rapporteur at this point practically every year, as if historically. I'm looking at your director Jablonski here, and I'm glad, Mr. Director, that we've been able to work together for 11 years now. On the other hand, as far as the data are concerned, I will not talk about the details here, because the Minister is talking about it, and the representatives of the various clubs will certainly talk about it as well. One thing needs to be said, in some areas, and this was underlined in the discussion, we are making progress, unfortunately there is no progress in others. During the committee's meeting, we wondered what could be done to get some break-up from the bad trends that are being observed and, at the same time, how to deal with the new threats, I am thinking about boosters here. Every once in a while, spectacular actions are organized that deal with the fight against boosters. The law was amended last year, new substances were added to the list of prohibited substances, but still cannot be impressed, unfortunately, that we remain one step behind the manufacturers of boosters. I must say objectively, that this was the case every year, since who ruled Poland, we discussed together what could be changed, what could be improved in terms of whether it was the fight against drugs, or the problem of drug abuse, or treatment, more and more, because there are different new trends, trends in treatment of drug addicts. In any case, as far as this progress is concerned, regardless of the positive opinion on this report, in the opinion of all clubs, we would like to see more of all Members so that these effects are better. This, of course, also concerns issues relating to the proposal of individual solutions, which result from the presentation of the implementation of the programme. We always receive very accurate, insightful material, very extensive, also comprehensive, full of statistical data, but in the opinion of the committee members... We would like to have, independently or even instead of this substantive information, very clearly shown directions in which we will be going in the future in order to achieve this progress, of course, using all possible and available means today, whether the Internet, whether it's mass media, or possibly other potential impacts on people who are potentially at risk of this problem. Finally, of course, every year there is also an issue related to the operation and cooperation of other services in addition to the national office. I am thinking here, above all, of the police, of penetrating the environments that are responsible for the distribution of drugs. It seems that these places are quite well identified in particular localities. Surely, perhaps in a more effective way, one can reach and effectively counteract such or other drug dealers' behaviour. The same applies, of course, to drugs and shop closures. Here, as the Minister said at the committee meeting, quite much progress has been made with regard to the number of closed shops. This number of booster shops has fallen, as I remember, from a thousand hundreds to several hundred, but still these booster shops are functioning, there are and you need to find an answer, what you can do to effectively close the other stores. This is, of course, also the influence of other services, including health inspection, so as to effectively support services under the authority of the Home Affairs Minister, who may close these shops or effectively pursue such criminals. I think that this discussion, as every year, has, however, brought a number of important elements which I hope will be taken into account in the implementation of the programme in the coming years. Before us, as I mentioned, there will probably be a mid-year adoption of the 2015 report and later further information from the following years. As I said, the Health Commission asks the High Sejm to accept the information from print number 192. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u283	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Czech, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to summarise briefly the information on the implementation of the National Drug Prevention Programme in 2014. The programme was implemented in five areas, which were also based on the plan: prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, reduction of health damage and social reintegration, international cooperation and research and monitoring. The material that was the report consists of two parts. The phenomenon is presented from the perspective of epidemiology, the latest data on the dissemination and use of drugs, the health and social consequences of drug use and the overall analysis of trends observed in this area. Activities undertaken by individual actors, institutions in the framework of the implementation of this programme have also been described. This information has been supplemented - and this has already been said before - about the so-called problem. boosters, i.e. new psychoactive measures, the negative impact of which was particularly reflected in 2015: a larger number, 7 thousand, hospitalizations and a large number of deaths. I'm moving on to discussing areas. Prophylaxis. This is the most important area of action. Here, acting well, effectively, we can get the greatest results. All the actors involved in this national programme have been involved in this area, in prevention, through various types of programmes, in promoting good family relations. Here, attention was drawn to the leaflet published by the Chief Sanitary Inspector, in which this is the idea of presenting good relations between parents and children. A clear system of values, kindness, acceptance, daily contact, conversation, interest in the child's affairs helps to prevent drugs. This is just a very important matter that should reach out to all parents. You just have to realize that if your parents are not aware that their good contact with your children is able to prevent them from falling into this system of non-existentness and then drugs. The national office implemented as many as 158 programs. This affected more than 240,000 people. persons. The sanitary inspection also carried out many preventive measures. According to the report, several hundred thousand people reached their destination. The Ministry of Education has also been effectively involved in these activities. Jobs - you can also notice here that this is a good start. 221 companies were acquired, 207 of which implemented the programme, reaching 55 thousand with materials. employees. The European Education Programme has also been implemented. He relied on effective methods of shaping normative beliefs, changing attitudes and strengthening protective skills. Almost 300 teachers were trained and the program was implemented by 352 junior high schools. The national office assessed this programme and its effects positively. Also, as I mentioned, it has been noted that the Ministry of Education has also taken action in this area as far as possible. The total number of mental health promotion programmes was 13. These 13 programmes have just been of a positive quality. Unfortunately, these programmes are implemented in a small proportion of Polish schools and it is necessary to mobilise local governments and curatoria to implement good quality programmes. Self-governments, including voivodships, have joined selective prevention. They've reached over 10,000. persons. The local authorities have also cooperated with the media, but it is, I think, the beginning of this road, because 6 marshal offices issued 78 messages and 27 articles. I think there's still a lot to do in this area at this point. On the other hand, within the area: treatment, rehabilitation and reduction of social damage, the NFZ increased funding for outpatient care, but many people do not yet have access to substitution treatment. It is also necessary to include those affected by the problem of drug addiction environmental care, which is essential to provide comprehensive care. Treatment and functioning in the environment - here local authorities supported three hostels and five centres of social integration, which is also the beginning of the road. Another very important problem is the reduction of supply. The increase in the number of illegal cannabis plantations and their sales on the Polish market are worrying. It is also necessary to develop, restrict access to marijuana. Currently, new psychoactive substances, i.e. are the most important and most dangerous threat. Reinforcers. Existing legislation and measures taken to eliminate it are simply ineffective. Strong action must be taken to improve the situation. The final conclusions are: the need to ensure greater control and coordination of the funds spent on the programme and the control and coordination of the preventive programmes in place, to include those affected by the problem of comprehensive drug use care, stationary treatment, outpatient care, environmental care, stronger promotion of mental health, the recipient: the whole society, as well as a determined identification of the fight against new measures, psychoactive substances, or boosters, because these measures cause much greater harm, the previously unknown psychoactive substances simply have a very negative impact on health and even human life, several times the use of these boosters is already changing man irreversibly. Updating the list of banned substances - this is what happens - is simply ineffective. Turns out, I mean. There is evidence that I have already mentioned that there were 7 000 in 2015. Hospitalization and 24 deaths. So you probably need legislative work, tightening the rules. There is also a need for ongoing inter-ministerial cooperation and, last thing, Internet trade tracking. The number of points where you can get boosts has decreased, while Internet commerce is flourishing, effectively replacing existing points, e.g. young people order drugs and take them in mailboxes as mail. The programme should be complemented by ongoing experience and consistently implemented over the years. The Law and Justice Club requests the adoption of information on the implementation of the National Drug Prevention Programme in 2014. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u285	Thank you very much. Ms Beat Małecka-Libera, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u286	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my views on the implementation of the measures resulting from the National Drug Prevention Programme in 2014, print No 192 and the Health Committee's report No 378. High Izbo! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, The implementation of the drug prevention programme was developed for 2011 and 2016. The report we are talking about today is only one year's report. Nevertheless, the programme, as I stress, is modern, comprehensive and for many issues related to drug addiction, as well as drugs, so-called. The boosters, which are very fashionable and ubiquitous in our market at the moment, are very complex. It is also associated with the experience of the people who prepared this program, that is, experts. The fact that this is a huge problem in our country and that we are struggling not only with drug addiction, but also with the so-called problem. boosters or otherwise: psychoactive substances, we know very well and therefore the actions taken must be very coherent, comprehensive, as well as carried out for many years to come, because the situation requires it. Therefore, the objectives of the programme have been comprehensive and long-term, as has already been the case here, in five areas, namely prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, reduction of supply, international cooperation, research and monitoring. One of the most important elements is, of course, prevention, i.e. those actions that prevent the expansion of this phenomenon. They are - and must - carried out on a continuous and long-term basis. They are primarily aimed at strengthening attitudes that promote the reduction of the use of psychoactive substances. Programmes implemented in this area, precisely within this national programme, were addressed mainly to children, to pupils, to young people, but they were also implemented in workplaces. Educational activities were undertaken not only for young people at risk, but also, as part of a nationwide campaign, to raise awareness of the whole society. The Ministry of Education and MON were also closely involved in the implementation of this project, which carried out separate educational activities also among soldiers and military workers. The national programme not only talked about education, but also promoted a number of new prevention measures, such as those that have already been confirmed and have been good practices. The programme also included support for families and people who needed support by psychologists and lawyers. Another element is treatment and rehabilitation and reduction of health damage. In this respect, the national office not only organised training and conferences, but also implemented and monitored various types of therapeutic programmes, trained doctors, medical staff, and increased funding for these benefits by almost 12% in order to increase access to outpatient benefits. Despite the promotion of these numerous programmes, it must be said that substitution treatment did not, however, reach all those to whom it was planned. Unfortunately, the use of these opportunities has not been entirely fulfilled. Therefore, it will be necessary in the future to increase the availability of treatment in each of the voivodships, and in some, in two in which these programs have not been launched at all - to develop and launch programs. In 2014 in 14 marshal offices was the funding and implementation of such programmes for the availability of therapeutic and rehabilitation aid. In general, the involvement of marshal offices is poorly assessed and I think this is a challenge. for the following years, so that local governments are more involved in education and prevention in their territories. Cooperation to reduce supply was also continued in 2014. This is a big challenge. We are aware that in 2014 new shops were created, there was an opportunity to exchange, also Internet access. And this is a huge challenge because criminal groups are constantly mobilizing and unfortunately there are various ways of accessing drugs, as well as drugs, boosters. In 2014, a total of 52 criminal groups were wound up thanks to cooperation and coordination. Poland was also active in the area of international cooperation, mainly in the creation and coordination of policies within the European Union but also outside the EU, as well as in the fight against illegal trade with third world countries. International projects have been carried out to effectively support those affected by addiction. The next task carried out by the national office is research and monitoring. This is a very important task because epidemiological data on drugs and drug addiction are collected here, and research is also being carried out. The issue of collecting drug-related deaths and the inaccuracies that unfortunately arise in reporting remains a major problem. Following an analysis of the implementation of the programme, it is clear that the full and consistent implementation of the programme's tasks should be made. It is also true that there is still a problem and therefore programmes must continue to be implemented and modernised. The conclusions drawn from the report are, above all, the need for a wider dissemination of prevention activities in schools, quality programmes with proven evaluation and greater involvement of marshal offices. It is also a fact that we know that traditional drug addiction is replaced by new psychoactive agents, boosters and fight against them is becoming increasingly difficult because the possibilities of promoting these psychoactive substances change with each year. I would like to add, although this is not the year 2014, that, on the basis of these years of experience with this programme, a new programme has been developed to combat addiction. He's connected to the Public Health Act, that's what it says. One of the priorities that we have set ourselves for the following years is the fight against addiction, which I hope will be implemented in the framework of the National Health Programme since this year. Therefore, in summing up the overall acquis contained in this programme, as well as the fact that the problems are still relevant and will continue to be resolved very consistently, the Civic Platform Group welcomes the report presented, with the hope that the next stages of the implementation of this programme will continue to be modernised, improved and, above all, the main focus will be on inter-ministerial cooperation, as well as on cooperation with the local government, as, above all, marshal offices and municipalities in their territories must be very closely involved in the implementation of prevention and education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u287	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Kukiz club15, will now speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Drug Prevention Programme is difficult to develop and implement a condensed description of the state's action to regulate drug addiction through research and monitoring, prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, social reintegration, international cooperation and regulatory activities to reduce supply. The information presented on the implementation of the action resulting from the National Drug Prevention Programme creates the impression that the state institutions remain one step behind the progressive phenomenon and problem. However, such a situation seems inevitable. We create new laws, bans, algorithms of conduct related to controlling the market for psychoactive substances, which is undoubtedly needed, but will always be secondary to the already existing problem. We do not criticize the very idea of penalising acts related to banned substances, which are largely necessary and necessary. We note that the accent and the force of influence are directed towards the wrong actions. The area of addiction, regardless of the nature of substances - alcohol, drugs boosters or addictive behaviour - is not an unknown space, an unsolvable problem for which we spend millions of zlotys a year. It is a widely studied field of knowledge that knows the answers to key questions. Yes, addictions can be effectively prevented and treated effectively. However, if we engage in actions focused on creating further rules, prohibitions and sanctions, our action will not be effective, because it is not aimed at the causes of the phenomenon, but at its effects. The reason for addiction is not the availability of a substance, but the reason for which a person reaches for it. By analysing scientific publications and available research results, also through the document on which this statement relates, it is easy to believe that we have more and more tools and knowledge needed to prevent and compensate for social deficits such as addiction. With all responsibility, I can admit that this potential is too low and incorrectly exploited. This point of view is entirely in line with the conclusions presented in the reference information on the implementation of the actions resulting from the National Drug Prevention Programme. The implementation of recommended prevention programmes with proven effectiveness in Polish schools is not a standard. I would like to add that the professional preventive impact of learning new skills, particularly interpersonal, intra-psyche skills, allows us to understand ourselves, live in a way that is satisfying, solve problems and difficulties constructively without using chemicals or escaping to negative youth groups. This activity is not only the best protection against the involvement of young people in experimenting and using psychoactive measures, but it is also a guarantee of healthy development in the psychological aspect. Teachers and educators can be the best providers of prevention and action focused on prevention of addiction, not by conducting educational and informational lessons, what drugs are, only by staying in a proper relationship with their pupils, helping and supporting, remaining authority. The studies that we are referring to show that teachers are often inadequately prepared to play the role of educators, and even more so to prevent. We are convinced that the basic recommendation for information on the implementation of the National Drug Prevention Programme should be to discuss immediately the quality of teacher education in the field of psychological skills for this role and the school as a primary educational institution. There is no doubt that investment in prevention of addiction will prove to be by far the most effective activity. The most important level for human-directed interactions is the local level, the local level, where real work is carried out with people at risk of addiction or addiction. Being honest with each other and with citizens, it should be acknowledged that regulations have been created that have placed a huge burden on local governments, which play a crucial role in preventing addiction. However, self-governments do not carry out their duties sufficiently. They do not properly manage the potential of tools and skills of practitioners in prevention and addiction therapy. They are not sufficiently involved in harm reduction programmes. To a minimum, they support aftercare activities to support patients after the end of addiction treatment. These reservations must be confronted with the knowledge of the financial capacity of local governments. Even small municipalities have several hundred thousand, and sometimes even more than a few million annually, funds from the fees for the marketing of alcoholic beverages, only a small proportion of which are spent on statutory purposes, namely prevention and resolution of addiction problems, which remain beyond the control of the authorities. With regard to the issue of fundamental irregularities in the spending of municipal funds, attention should be paid to the negative ideas of coherence and cooperation in organisational arrangements at national level. The area of prevention and psychotherapy of addictions are common, regardless of the nature of the substance. Today we are talking about the National Drug Prevention Programme in complete isolation from the National Alcohol Prevention Programme. Similarly, there are key institutions in Poland that deal with addictions: the National Office for Drugs Prevention and the National Agency for Alcohol Problem Solutions. Preventive activities, organisation of training and the process of certification of therapists, research and monitoring are only some of the activities that are common to institutions that function separately. We cannot talk about cooperation with local governments if there is no cooperation at organisational level. These conclusions are very worrying. Therefore, after analysing information on the implementation of the actions resulting from the National Drug Prevention Programme, we find that the existing regulations of the widely recognised prevention and treatment of addictions in Poland are not effective and require immediate intervention. Poland has a number of institutions whose activities are focused on addictions: the National Office for Drugs Prevention, whose activities are reflected in the document referred to, the National Agency for Alcohol Problems Solutions, voivodship drug therapy centers, whose activities should be combined and not shared. We need to re-plan an efficient institutional system dealing with drug prevention, corresponding to current demand, cheaper maintenance and more efficient. Only full cooperation between addiction institutions, including research centres and the Ministry of Education, will contribute to the recommendations contained in the document presented and to a significant change in the implementation of drug prevention programmes in the coming years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u289	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Marta Golbik from the Modern Club will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u290	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law on the prevention of drug addiction has been in operation in Poland for several years and there is no doubt that a basic system against the dependence of Poles on psychoactive measures has been built. This is so important in our country that the historical stigma of alcohol addiction continues to repent in subsequent generations, and the loss of the use of drugs, in addition to the significant weakening of the condition of the nation, are also financial issues that consume enormous amounts from the state budget every year. How can we cope with the drama of parents seeking help for their children if the centers are helpless because of the lack of will to treat addicts and we must wait until they break the law? Therefore, since we do not have effective tools to solve existing problems, we need to focus on prevention. Facts: among Poles, as reported in the report, the number of problem drug users in the Republic of Poland has increased. High levels of homelessness and unemployment exist among people treated for drug addiction. The percentage of homeless people treated in 2013 was 10.1% and was comparable in 2012 (10.3% ). In the same group, the unemployment rate reached 46,9 in 2013, compared to 39,6. Recently, we can also see an increasing phenomenon of concomitant psychiatric disorders associated with drug use. This is particularly dangerous in comparison with marijuana seen by many as a harmless drug. Unfortunately, its genetic modifications and improvers are conducive to the emergence of mental illness, and its consumption continues to increase. However, the profile of a homeless, unemployed, and excluded person is already formed during the period of adolescence. As you know, prevention is the cheapest. However, the analysis of the document: Information on the implementation of the National Drug Prevention Programme (NAP) in 2014, a report adopted by the Council of Ministers, shows that we are still unable to deal effectively with the risks posed by access to drugs. As far as children and young people are concerned, access to drugs is 28%. on the scale of the last of the months analysed, it is above all an indication that we cannot protect our children from the risk of the drama of addiction. These figures are constantly increasing compared to previous years: in 2008 - 16% , in 2010-8% students admitted access to drugs, students until they were 19. A similar strong growth was recorded among adults. Assessment of the availability of individual substances indicates that 50% considers access to marijuana and hashish to be easy. Fortunately, the issue of school safety has improved. Public consultation indicates that for unknown reasons police are not always effective where the local community even knows who, where and when and how to distribute drugs, and also informs law enforcement authorities. A huge problem is access to synthetic drugs, which is mainly boosters, which will be discussed in the second part of our speech. A big problem is a very modest post-rehabilitation. One of the most significant and effective areas of assistance for addicts is postrehabilitation, while in Poland only three NFZ branches finance hostels: Łódź, Lower Silesia and Świętokrzyski. The question is why. According to the report, the problem of drug addiction is a marginalized topic by local governments, and 57 local government units have not developed a municipal programme against addiction or drug addiction at all. Other unsolved problems remain, such as: driving under the influence of drugs such as alcohol or drugs - this remains a serious problem in the Republic of Poland. Although opiate drug use is decreasing, drug use other than opiates of substances, in particular amphetamines, mephedrones and other boosters, and non-prescription drugs are spreading. This phenomenon poses a serious threat to public health and requires continued efforts to increase the availability of needle and syringe exchange programmes and the offer of low-level measures. Finally, in addiction therapy, as in psychiatry, there is a need for a number of actors to work together to ensure that people return after therapy, cooperation between the NFZ and urban social services centres and work offices. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u291	Thank you very much. The remaining part of the time will be filled by Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 16 January 2016, Prime Minister Beata Szydło sent information to the Sejm on the implementation of the measures resulting from the National Drug Prevention Programme in 2014. This complete document may be the starting point for a broader discussion on the legislative changes needed, which I would like to take the opportunity to discuss briefly. Before I go to the point, I would like to point out that, of course, the course of action proposed by the authors of the programme, which is reflected in extensive preventive actions, should be commended. However, as in all such programmes, implementation differs in some respects from plans. The first issue to be addressed is the fact that the methodology presented for collecting data, which comes from the declarations of the directors of educational establishments, is therefore not fully valid. Despite the fact that these are declarations, for some it may be as much as possible, but for the Modern it is only 65% of the directors who admitted that they were preparing teachers for the task of combating drug addiction. The question arises as to why the remaining 35% He openly admits he doesn't do it. If you translate this into the number of teachers who have not been prepared for their educational tasks, it gives you 130 thousand. teachers. Despite discussions between teachers and parents on the diagnosis of problems and needs of young people only 41% students participated in open discussions on their behaviour. Unfortunately, drug abuse cannot be effectively prevented by avoiding contact with people who are most exposed to experiments and destructive effects of all addictive substances. While remaining on the issue of prevention among young people, I noticed that the programme aimed directly at students called I believe that such programmes should be implemented on a much broader scale. Another point I wanted to raise is the so-called. substitutes, also known as boosters. Today, in my view, they pose the greatest threat to the health and life of young people. Here, because of the gaps in the anti-drug law, the chances of implementing the plans contained in the programme are much smaller. This is confirmed by data on the consumption of boosters or those relating to the number of places where their illicit sale is carried out. This is also confirmed by regular media coverage of further poisonings with unknown substances. This shows that prevention programmes should increase the emphasis on demonstrating the effects of the adoption of measures of unknown composition. In addition, despite the work of the service, the marketing of these substances continues to flourish, including via the Internet. The fight against boosters should therefore be a clear priority. With regard to the ban on the manufacture, import and placing on the market of boosters, I believe that it is important to postulate, first and foremost, a much more frequent, at least once a month, analysis of the health minister's regulation on the list of new psychoactive substances, including an annex containing a list of new psychoactive substances. Perhaps it would be necessary to set up a team at the Ministry of Health who, in cooperation with the Police, would undertake this task. On the other hand, the list of narcotic drugs in Annex 1 to the Anti-drugs Act itself also needs to be updated more efficiently. A change of approach also appears necessary as regards the criminal consequences of the marketing of replacement measures. Actually, it's an art. 52a of the Act provides that who manufactures or markets a substitute or a new psychoactive substance on the territory of the Republic of Poland shall be subject to a penalty of 20 thousand. up to PLN 1 million imposed in administrative mode by the State Health Inspector. Practice shows that it is almost impossible to enforce this punishment. It would therefore be appropriate to propose that the practice of law enforcement be harmonised either by amending the Article. 52a Act on the prevention of drug addiction and the change in the nature of the administrative penalty referred to therein to be typically criminal, or by removing it from that law with the simultaneous amendment of the aforementioned article. 165 Penal Code. In turn, we consider it pointless to punish the users of substitution measures with prison or with a high fine, who are primarily in need of the help of specialists. In order to reduce red tape, we believe that this amendment should be introduced together with an amendment on the authorisation of medicines from medical marijuana and medicinal cannabis varieties. This would have an impact on reducing the costs of tackling the drug problem in view of the exclusion of medical users from this fight, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are currently forced to use the black market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u293	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u294	Dear Marshal, Minister! According to the Law of 29 November 2005 on the Prevention of Drugs and on the basis of anti-drug measures, the national anti-drug programme constitutes a national anti-drug programme. The main objective of the programme, which was planned for 2011 and 2016, is, of course, to reduce the use of drugs and related social and health problems. The presented material, which we consider to be fairly thorough, concrete, covering all fields or a number of fields of action, contains information on the prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of people affected by drug addiction, reduction of health damage, social reintegration of addicts, reduction of drug supply and international cooperation in the field of drug prevention and research and monitoring. We can also obtain information from this material that the dissemination of drug use in Poland remains stable as far as possible, with the exception of marijuana, where research shows an increase in the proportion of experimenters in relation to young people. There is an increase in the use of cannabis in both the general population and the youth population. In 2014, however, a significant increase in the number of poisons caused by the use of boosters was observed. We also have information on the effectiveness and outcomes of the programme, on access to therapeutic assistance and rehabilitation for drug addicts and the functioning of addiction treatment centres, on information and education activities and the introduction of new prevention programmes, in particular aimed at children and young people in schools. The previous speakers mentioned the number of actions taken, monitoring of boosters, substitution treatment with the inclusion of local units, in this case voivodship authorities, and the introduction of drug testing by the police recently among drivers of vehicles. Even today, in the media reports, there was this information, there were photos, a driver's image, which was recorded by surveillance cameras when he was driving the vehicle after taking the drugs. We also have information here about the fight against drug crime. There is a need to develop a multisectoral and integrated strategy in the face of a new public health threat to the drug market for new psychotropic substances. In order to reduce the spread of drug use, psychotropic substances and substitution measures among children and young people during the reporting year, the national office supported the implementation of 158 prevention programmes throughout the country. In the competition conducted in accordance with applicable public benefit and voluntary legislation, early intervention programmes, selective prevention, indicative prevention and prevention in areas with increased exposure to psychoactive measures were adopted. These activities were covered by around 244 thousand. persons. This information also includes knowledge of the activities of the national office, which continued the nationwide campaign entitled: Do I take it or take it? Non-prescription drugs for treatment, not to be taken, aimed at raising public awareness of the risks associated with non-medical use of sleeping and sedative drugs by young people and medicines available without prescription containing psychoactive substances. The main health inspector in partnership with the national office, the Institute of Rural Medicine and the National Centre for Risk Prevention carried out a project "Proactive programme to combat alcohol, tobacco and other psychoactive measures" co-financed by the Swiss-Polish Cooperation Programme. From the materials we are constantly talking about, the report shows that educational measures have been taken in the framework of a social campaign called. Don't let your luck go. The aim of the campaign is to address the general population and specific groups, including: pregnant women, there is an increase in knowledge about the health effects of the use of psychoactive substances, as well as the restriction of their use. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club, I declare that we are in favour of this information. At the same time, I ask that we continue to be able to carry out actions within the framework of a widely understood campaign and cooperation to which we would invite many actors, those who would like to take these actions, the local partners, the social partners, NGOs and the economic sector. I think this is a very important area of action, especially with regard to those issues that concern children and young people at school. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u295	Thank you, sir. 14 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions. It's time for the question to be asked for two minutes. The first question is asked by Marian Zembala, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Membership! In 2 minutes, I would like to thank everyone whose effort over division has caused what you have been talking about and, in fact, the rescue of so many young people, young Poles. I'm gonna focus on the drug problem. I would like everyone to be aware of this: despite this huge multi-directional programme analysed from the perspective of 2014, please see what has happened. Apogee in May, June last year, unexpected, surprising us, where only in the Silesian Voivodeship from 90 to 110 young people were being sent to emergency services victims requiring help. Today, there's five to ten of them a day. This is also the result of your action. In addition to medical services, I would like to highlight... Among the people sitting here is Minister Posobkiewicz, who personally created many original projects and participated in them. But also the police department. I was impressed by the operational and professionalism in Pabianice, Czestochowa, Małopolska and many places. Thank you. My question, my suggestion in terms of this is this. Notice the problem of growing addictions treating in medical environments. A new problem that's growing. And secondly, let's learn from such fantastic solutions as in Izbick in Opole voivodeship, from the activities of the great figure Jack, the bard of Silesia, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who served the homeless for 20 years. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u297	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The key to success is close cooperation between the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of National Education, but also, I think, the Ministry of Justice. Well, we hear the voices of organizations that are involved, for example. boosters, a type of health care, that they have a problem, e.g. with the execution of penalties which are imposed by the health care centre as a result of the discovery, the finding that the business is carried out by people dealing with boosters. The execution of 25 million PLN imposed penalties is a level of several percent. The statute of limitations resulting from the penalties imposed is only 5 years, and after 5 years it is blurry. Action would seem to have to be taken to ensure that there is no statute of limitations and more effective execution. The next issue is availability through shops. It seems that it would be necessary to ban the operation of at least 3 months for those companies where it has been found that they are engaged in such activities, but also for those who rent premises, maybe not the first time, but the second time. As it turns out that in the same premises another company carries out the same activity, the question should arise as to whether this tenant is sometimes a person cooperating with the company and making these premises available. Courier shipments - that's another problem we have at our borders. In January, according to the police, 230 kg of boosters were imported from China. What's the import scale? Do we know anything and is there a programme to combat such practices? Finally, the last issue: reporting in hospitals, GIODO, i.e. the protection of personal data, and the issue of verification of places of availability, i.e. the hospital informs that there has been a case of drug poisoning, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we find out what area it's in. What tools we have to enter, for example. to the school or to the place where the addict comes from to verify where the product comes from? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u299	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm asking the Minister a question. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to do well and build your development agenda, you must base it on health. There is no doubt about this that health at the moment decisively determines the life of society, the development of the economy and economics. We all know that it is. Therefore, countries are implementing their long-term long-term strategies. We, too, prepared such a strategy in the form of a National Health Programme last year. There were five main operational objectives that were primarily aimed at safety, health and life expectancy. One of the elements and operational objectives of the programme was the fight against addiction. It was a broad programme and, as you have pointed out here, a comprehensive programme. I think there is no doubt that there must be cooperation not only between departments, but also with local authorities. This is why a comprehensive programme has been developed to combat addiction: drugs, boosters, but also, which often goes hand in hand with alcohol or cigarettes, as well as new challenges of behavioral addiction. Minister! My question and my concern is the National Health Programme. I'm not hiding that I'm following it closely. With the shaking of my heart, I see that new programs are being added. I'm afraid that for the first time in history, when the National Health Programme has its budget... We would like these strategic programmes to be well funded as far as possible. If we shred it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] we will add a number of new programs, and I am afraid that the effectiveness of this will be limited. That is why my question is: When will you implement the National Health Programme, which was due to be operational since January this year, and how is progress in its preparation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u301	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Szramka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have learned that recommended prevention programmes are not adequately funded at local level. According to our assessment, the funds raised by local authorities for the authorisation of alcohol sales are not properly used. I would therefore like to ask: Is the current government going to introduce a system of substantive control of the ongoing drug prevention programmes that will enforce proper disposal of these funds? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u303	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Skutecki. [[Voice from the room: absent.]] Then the question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I invite Mrs Lydia Gądek to ask a question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Information on the implementation of the National Drug Prevention Programme in 2014 has already been discussed in the Health Committee. However, it is good that the debate is also in the plenary room, as usual, because it would be good for certain issues to be clearly identified and sounded here in the plenary room, so that a larger group of listeners will gain better insight in their drug policy, anti-drug policy in general. Therefore, I would like to ask questions to which it is difficult for objective reasons to find an adequate, direct answer in the information submitted to the High House. First of all, Minister, what actions to counter the proliferation of narcotic drugs were carried out by state institutions and private entities - this is an extremely important action - i.e. with pub owners, clubs, discos, other places where, for well-known natural reasons, drugs can play a major role as a fuel for fun? Will these actions continue this year? If possible, please provide specific examples. I understand that this may not be possible today, so I would ask for examples in writing. I'd like to use it for local work. Secondly, I think we can all agree that the fight against drug addiction is only effective if it is conducted from the bottom up, through bodies and institutions close to the local community. Therefore, please assess: Has the contribution of local authorities and local non-governmental institutions in 2014 to the fight against drug abuse been greater than in previous years, or has something changed for the better or on the contrary? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In other words, is the effectiveness of self-government in the fight against drug addiction increasing, or is it decreasing, and what are the reasons for this? I'm almost done, Marshal. Unfortunately, this cannot be learned by examining the content of the report, and I believe that the subject is extremely important for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u305	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Furga.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The subject is very serious and the fight must be serious. The fight must be fought against this pathology on all fronts, from the ruthless struggle, through legal means, above all education, because we are fighting, I ask you for health, but also for the souls of young people, for the minds of young people. Drugs or boosters are a very trendy topic today. So there must be a smart campaign. There's no smart campaign because I think we're kind of in the 20th century, and we're in the 21st century. The poster method, the youth talk, we're not gonna get anything done. We need to look at events, the 21st century campaign, the interactive campaign, and we need to devote a lot of resources to this so that, ladies and gentlemen, we can succeed. Young people don't listen. We're all together, you can say, on the same field. I would encourage a very sharp enforcement and elimination of drug dealers of all kinds from everyday life, but at the same time I appeal to all those who are involved in education and health, for a wiser leaning on the subject of wise education, because that is the only thing we can get young people away from it. There are no such parties tonight, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u307	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs... of the Member, I apologise, Mr Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko. [[Member of the Commission.]] You... [[Member of our club, but she's not here.]] There isn't. Then it is you - certainly Mr Tomasz Latos. [[Yes, sir.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u308	I'm sure you will, Marshal. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I think so. Every year we talk about this, in a sense every year, and I apologize for the fact that we are moving forward at a tortoise rate. I would therefore like to ask the ministers about possible new measures that will promote a drug-free and drug-free world on the one hand, because unfortunately the signals of environments important for young people are very different. You remember, for example, the debate on free cannabis, drugs, it was still related to marijuana therapy. Important celebrities said in the media that it's basically nothing, and cigarettes are almost worse - they said. It seems to me that this must be answered by the same method, which means that celebrities should also be used in the nationwide campaign, who will say: no, we are free from this addiction, we act, we function, we create fantastic things, we are famous, we are famous, but we do not use these kinds of drugs. I urge you to respond as if on the same emotional level to everything that has been happening recently. Of course, I am thinking with you, and I am also asking what can be done to ensure that the top-up shops are effectively closed down to the end and eliminated. What can be done about this? And finally, what can be done to effectively chase - that's what I ask how every year - drivers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when it comes to abuse or even drug use and use of boosters? Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u309	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the information you write: in the face of a new threat to public health, which is the emergence of new psychoactive substances in the drug market, from the very beginning the Polish government, responsible institutions, local government units, NGOs have taken a number of measures aimed at reducing this negative phenomenon. The nature of the interventions was comprehensive, including both legislative changes, the implementation of control and supply reduction measures and a wide range of preventive measures. Is the fact that the actions were comprehensive, equivalent to the fact that they were effective, Minister? For example, the campaign "Smokers Steal Life" was criticized at the international conference on. urban drug policies. It has been presented by specialists as an example of inadequate preventive measures. It is also worrying that the Marshal's offices were very little involved in developing the availability of health harm reduction programmes. I therefore ask: What measures can be taken at government level in this regard? 21 April Modern organisation of consultations on urban drug policies. Maybe it's worth getting involved in. You're welcome. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u311	Thank you very much, Member. And please take the floor of Mr John Kilian. There isn't. Mr Piotr Liroy-March. There isn't either. Neither is Mrs Barbara Chrobak. Consequently, the list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Marek Tombarkiewicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the scope of the questions asked is very wide and we do not currently have all the data requested here by the honourable Members, the final versions of the full answers will be forwarded to all the people asking the questions. On the other hand, in response to the first question, Professor Zembali, I would like to say that, as a doctor, I am also aware that such threats to medical personnel - in a broad context of addictions, because we may not necessarily have to talk about drug addiction, but generally about a wide range of inappropriate behaviours and addictions - certainly exist. On the other hand, we will try to gather accurate data and give the professor an answer. As far as enforcement problems are concerned, the question partly answers the next question: How can we finally effectively fight these booster shops? This is obviously a huge problem. If the answer was simple, it probably wouldn't be a problem. The measures taken together with the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Treasury, must therefore be stepped up. These proposals, which have been made here, are also partly the answer to the next questions. Therefore, these activities must be multi-track, at different levels, carried out by different services, so that the effectiveness of this is as high as possible. Of course, the campaign itself, the programme itself, which is developed, which operates, has very limited possibilities. In fact, this is a prevention programme, not a fight against crime, because of course we need to be aware that there is no possibility and there is no scope. On the other hand, there is no doubt that these problems and the proposals for solutions have been signalled, and we feel that the tax services could certainly act in this way in order to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of this in terms of the huge problem that we are all talking about here. As far as the answer to the third question is concerned, regarding the National Health Programme, I can assure you, Mr President, that the measures will not be reduced, that this programme will certainly cover all addictions, i.e. not only drugs, but also alcohol and tobacco. The current state of work is that, after consultation, the project is waiting for the opinion of the joint government and local government committee, which is due to appear soon, and then it will be forwarded to the permanent committee. So that very soon, within a month - we hope so - this program should be completely eliminated, so to speak. As regards the answer to the fourth question on the use of the so-called. cork, of course, are the voices that these collected funds, which should be clearly allocated to preventive measures, are used incorrectly in some places. This is supervised by regional audit chambers, which monitor the expenditure of local government units and thus monitor the use of money obtained from so-called funds. Corky. On the other hand, from next year these local government programmes for compliance with the National Health Programme will supervise and control the voivodeship. Therefore, we hope that this supervision of the proper use of the financial resources thus used in order to comply with the National Health Programme will be very tight, very effective from next year. As far as the interaction between public services, state services and individuals and private companies is concerned, I would like to say that the Committee deals with, finances the operation of the so-called. Partyworkers who operate in mass events sites, simply in locations where inappropriate behaviours related to the dissemination of prohibited substances may occur. And this type of action, perhaps not sufficiently visible, is financed by public funds, precisely from this drug prevention programme. However, with this attention, we will try to increase the emphasis on the possibility of using such measures. It is in places where young people are in large clusters where improper behaviour may occur. So thank you very much for this kind of attention. As far as local authorities are concerned, local authorities are very autonomous in their activities. The government, through this anti-drug committee, gives some direction, gives the opportunity to finance activities, while direct action at local government level is less controlled. What was heard here during the information from individual clubs was indeed too little use or too little, insufficient action at the level of both marshal offices and lower local government units. We will certainly pay attention to increasing, to some extent helping to strengthen, stronger actions in direct places, i.e. where local government can be most effective. As far as question six is concerned, there is a lot of emphasis on online research. It is a very well-positioned website of Dopalaczeinfo. pl, because there are times that increase the participation of all kinds of electronic media, social networks, and reduces the effectiveness of leaflets, brochures, which are mentioned in this multi-annual programme of course. While their effectiveness in previous years is already the fourth edition of this program, it has certainly been bigger, but now due to the natural development of these flyer actions, paper is much less effective. On the other hand, a well-positioned site with boosters shows that you should increase activity, maybe create another site or otherwise try to reach a wide range of people who are at risk of addiction through social media. As far as this question is concerned, how effectively to fight the boosters, all these ideas, as I said at the beginning, which you have stated here, are as worthy of consideration as possible. We hope that joint action at different levels, through various ministries, including the Ministry of Finance, through the tax services, will effectively draw back these financial arrears, as well as through appropriate supervision, prevent the emergence of new shops. Customs, strengthening border surveillance. All these elements should certainly be better coordinated. We hope that this type of approach will result in more effective action. On the other hand, as regards the last, penultimate question concerning transport companies, these are actions aimed at large transport companies. There are surveys among professional drivers, whose aim is to raise awareness of these problems, through a wide range of information about the problem. The aim is to influence the reduction in the extent of this risk, which is the driver, especially the professional driver, who drives a car under the influence of some measures. And here too is the big role of the police, which is already growing in the course of road inspections... Each roadside inspection basically starts with a sobriety examination of the driver, while in situations where police officers have very suspicious behaviours, they have sufficiently rapid drug tests. Therefore, it is certainly advisable to expand, to intensify these activities. As far as the effectiveness of this campaign is concerned, the Member has said that it has been criticised, but such proposals can only make a positive contribution to making the next campaigns better. If one campaign didn't work out, that doesn't mean the next one won't work. We will certainly draw conclusions to improve quality, the scope of these campaigns, which we are addressing to an increasing number of people at risk of all kinds of addictions. On the heat, I am able to answer as much quickly as I can to you Members. The exact answers, once the data is collected, will be forwarded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u313	Thank you very much, Minister. And Mr Tomas Latos, rapporteur of the committee, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u314	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very warmly for the discussion, and it can be said, as usual, in substance in these matters, because, of course, we can have different views and make a different assessment of everything that is happening with regard to the national programme, but undoubtedly all the voices that were voiced during the committee meeting or in the plenary room were constructive and resulting from the fact that we want to make another breakthrough and improve this situation, which is still unsatisfactory for all of us. Thank you very much for your response to the Minister, who was de facto explaining himself for the government's actions, not our government's, but the previous one, because the programme concerns 2014, but the idea is the idea that brings everyone together, we all want the problem of drugs or boosters to be eliminated. Thank you kindly, everyone. I bow down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u315	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. The Health Commission requests the adoption of information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the measures resulting from the 2014 National Drug Prevention Programme in print No 192. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on the profession of physiotherapist (print No 29). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Ernest Wiśniewski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is the second time on behalf of the Committee of the Citizens' Initiative that I present the justification for the citizens' draft law on the profession of physiotherapist. The project was still submitted in the Sejm of the previous term of office, and they expressed their support for this project of 132 thousand. persons who have signed directly under it. The project was supported by hundreds of thousands of patients associated with more than 100 organizations and associations that supported us, as well as first-class sports clubs, including Polish representation in football and volleyball, as well as numerous creative environments. We estimate that only within three months of the collection of signatures directly and indirectly expressed its support for the bill of more than half a million citizens. The bill was not considered in the previous term of office of the Sejm, but due to its civic character it was not subject to the principle of discounting and was re-reading today. In parallel to the civil project since July 2014, a parliamentary draft law on the profession of physiotherapist was launched, originally significantly different from the assumptions of the civil project and thus from the expectations of patients and the physiotherapists' environment. However, in the course of the multi-monthly work of the Parliament's committees and sub-committees of health and extensive public and environmental consultations, it was possible to merge both projects and to draw up such provisions of the law, which are entirely in line with the proposed provisions of the citizens' project. You bet on, among other things. direct contact with a physiotherapist and the creation of a physiotherapist self-government, which is the only guarantee of system verification and proper pursuit of a profession affecting patient safety, which is the main message of regulation. The creation of a self-government will also allow for the supervision of physiotherapists and postgraduate physiotherapists, the creation of standards and prevention programmes, which will also directly translate into billions of savings for the state budget. Today, only because of the incapacity for work of citizens concerning, according to estimates, about 6 million people in the production group, the state budget bears the cost of 30 billion PLN per year. The introduction without unnecessary time of waiting for modern physiotherapy and prevention is able to effectively minimize the risk of falling out of the labour market for health reasons and thus to reduce the risk of falling out of the labour market. reduce costs effectively. According to ZUS data for 2015, only because of the so-called. back pain Poles left over 30 million days at work. The parliamentary project, which takes into account all the demands of the citizens' project, was held and on 25 September 2015 the VII-term Sejm passed the physiotherapist's profession law, and the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, signed the physiotherapist's profession law on 2 October. Finally, on 30 November 2015, the physiotherapist's profession was announced in the Monitor... in the Official Journal of the Laws, item. 1994, and enters into force after 6 months, i.e. May 31st this year Everyone, in particular Members directly involved in the work on the draft and the adoption of the law, as well as the Ministry and Professor Marian Zębali present, who was then Minister of Health, should be thanked at this point. [[Applause]] And, of course, President Andrzej Duda for creating such a good and nearly 30 years of expected law, the right to safe and professional physical therapy services for millions of Poles and the right to dignity and professional independence of a 70-thousand-year group of physiotherapists. Since the long-awaited law, the parliamentary project, was adopted, should not only be thanked, but also submit a request for the withdrawal of the civil project from further proceedings, for which as a committee of citizens' initiative we have a formal mandate, which would also coincide with the position of the government of 5 February 2016 against the citizens' draft law, where we read: The aim of both the citizens' draft law on the profession of physiotherapist and the law of 25 September 2015 on the profession of physiotherapist is to regulate the rules of the profession, vocational training and the submission of a state physiotherapy exam, post-graduate training and the principles of professional responsibility and professional self-government of physiotherapists. The citizens' draft law on the profession of physiotherapist - we read further - in principle it contains matter, which has already been regulated in the Act of 25 September 2015. Therefore, the government does not see the justification for further proceding the citizens' bill. On the day of the publication of the government's position, we fully agreed with it and we would have agreed if there had not been any facts - there would have been as many as two proposals for amending the law, which has not yet entered into force. Already less than 4 days after the publication of the government's position, i.e. On 9 February, Mrs Józefina Hrynkiewicz, with a group of 82 Members, tabled a draft amendment requesting an extension of the vacathio legis from 6 to 24 months. Patients and the environment reacted unambiguously by condemning the attempt to amend the law by writing letters to you asking you to reject the proposal for an amendment, which culminated in the first demonstration in the history of our profession on 26 February. Manifestation has echoed widely in public and social media and has led to many fruitful meetings with representatives of this House. It is thanks to your support and openness to social dialogue that the proposal to amend the law, which extends the vacathio legis to 24 months, is not being proceded to this day and we want to believe that it will remain so. Unfortunately, at a working meeting on 30 March this year. in the Ministry of Health we are presented instead of the expected draft implementing rules for the Act ready ministerial draft of the next amendment of the Law of 25 September 2015 on the profession of physiotherapist. [[It's a shame.]] The ministerial amendment proposal entails far-reaching changes, mainly in terms of the liquidation of self-government and any professional autonomy. It completely addicts the physiotherapist to the rehabilitation doctor's orders, which in our assessment will drastically reduce the quality of services and increase the waiting time for therapy. Today, in many resorts, you wait up to 9 months. Post-brain therapy - waiting time: 9 months. It's gonna take a lot longer than that. There is no guarantee of safety for patients, but the cost of the state budget and citizens who will have to bear the additional costs of physiotherapy orders, also outside the NFZ refund system, which currently carries out more than 80% of all physiotherapeutic services. The physiotherapists' local government, which was the core of a civil project, is to keep the National Register of Physiotherapists and verify the granting of the right to pursue the profession which gives our patients the only real guarantee of safety that the person who plans and conducts their therapy has the appropriate competence. It is also about creating standards in physiotherapy and prevention that are not there today. There are no standards in our profession. Self-government is also taking care of the development and image of physiotherapy, taking care of pre- and post-graduate education and many other tasks, which according to the Ministry of Health will now meet the register kept by voivodships. On behalf of the Citizens' Initiative Committee and millions of Poles waiting for the entry into force of the Law of 25 September 2015 on Physiotherapists, which, as I would like to stress once again, is consistent with the citizens' project, I would like to ask your Members and Members, in particular Members of the Law and Justice Club and Government representatives, to declare that the Law of 25 September 2015 for the profession of physiotherapists without further amendment, will enter into force on 31 May 2016. Until the entry into force of this long-awaited law, there were no more than 6 weeks. We call for help and ask for the Ministry of Health's commitment to carry out its duties, i.e. stop work on the amendment and appointment by 31 May of the Organizing Committee of the physiotherapists' Self-Government and the drafting of the law's implementing provisions in line with the expectation of hundreds of thousands of citizens who expressed their views on how and in what form the physiotherapist's profession would be regulated in Poland. Therefore, as a committee of citizens' initiative in a situation of constant attempts to amend the act of 25 September 2015 and to introduce far-reaching changes that are radically different from the expectations of hundreds of thousands of citizens, we have a moral mandate to stop the civil project from proceeding until the entry into force of the law of 25 September on the profession of physiotherapist. I declare that, following the entry into force of the Act in the unchanged form adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and after the signature of it by President Andrzej Duda, together with the implementing rules and the establishment of the Organizing Committee of the physiotherapists' Self-Government, the citizens' project will be withdrawn immediately. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u317	I would like to thank the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Joanna Kopcińska will speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the citizens' draft law on the profession of physiotherapist, print number 29. The purpose of the citizens' bill is to regulate the rules for the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist, including pre- and post-graduate training, the submission of a state examination of physiotherapy and a state specialization exam, the acquisition of the right to pursue the profession, the professional competence of the therapist and the principles of professional responsibility and the organisation of professional self-government. In principle, the initiative to regulate the profession of physiotherapist, in particular in the context of ensuring the health safety of patients, is appropriate. But I would like to point out that this citizens' draft law on the profession of physiotherapist entered the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 30 June 2015 during the 7th term of the Sejm, despite the fact that advanced work on the parliamentary draft law on the profession of physiotherapist and on the amendment of other laws, which was submitted in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 23 July 2014 by Members of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, concluded the adoption of this law by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 25 September 2015, and as my previous speaker mentioned, on 26 October 2015, the President of the Republic of Poland signed the Act, which was announced on 30 November 2015. This initiative therefore raises legitimate concerns and concerns as to the substance of the measures already adopted, which differ from those proposed in the citizens' project. For example, the above-mentioned draft law on the profession of physiotherapist proposes a different wording of the professional tasks of physiotherapist. It is important to stress the concerns raised by the catalogue of professional tasks, in particular in the context of the various qualifications of physiotherapists. It is therefore necessary to consider the need to define professional tasks according to the level of education already obtained at the level of the law. The regulations contained in the draft law aimed at determining the requirements to be met by the applicant for the right to pursue the profession of physiotherapist, including the qualifications necessary for the pursuit of the profession in question, differ from those contained in the Law of 25 September 2015 on the profession of physiotherapist. The bill requires physiotherapists to constantly update their professional knowledge and skills in the form of specialization, training and self-education. The project sets out requirements for specialization training aimed at obtaining specialist knowledge and skills by a physiotherapist in a specific field of physiotherapy or an area applicable to health care and the title of specialist in this field. However, the provisions should be clarified. For example, the chapter should specify in detail the rules for accreditation for the conduct of specialisation training, the rules for carrying out the checks of the entities carrying out this training, the rules on how the physiotherapist is to be admitted to the qualification procedure for specialisation training, the conduct of this procedure, the holding of training in this field and the manner in which the specialisation examination is carried out. The draft law also amends the provisions in force and contains transitional and final provisions. These provisions also need to be supplemented and clarified in such a way as to allow inter alia. for the continuation of specialist training of physiotherapists during the transition period. The citizens' draft law on the profession of physiotherapist contains in principle matter, which has already been regulated in the Act of 25 September 2015 on the profession of physiotherapist. Therefore, the validity of its further processing may be questionable. However, since an interested physiotherapist community sees in the law of substantive doubt adopted on 25 September 2015 and Law and Justice does not throw civil projects into the basket, as it did to the previous power, the coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are in favour of further proceding the citizens' bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u319	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Rajmund Miller's Civic Platform on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the citizens' draft physiotherapist law, print number 29. As my previous speaker said, the purpose of this law is to define, regulate the rules for the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist, obtain the right to pursue the profession, the rules of professional responsibility, the education system, the rules for obtaining specialisation and determine the competence according to the knowledge available. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we have already discussed this and the applicant's representative has said that the provisions of this law have been consummated in a project that has been transposed. It was a parliamentary project, which was renegotiated, received approval of the Sejm and Senate and was signed on 25 October by President Andrzej Duda, and the bill was announced on 30 November 2015 and is to enter into force on 31 May 2015. Ladies and gentlemen! What we have heard from the representatives of the applicants, however, is very disturbing because the work on this law lasted for a very long time and this law was the result of an agreement between different environments, both physiotherapists, patients and doctors. This bill received the approval of Minister Zembala, who, as few people understand, is the importance of rehabilitation after cardiological procedures. But we also have rehabilitation after neurological procedures in neurological patients, in patients with orthopaedic problems. We are very concerned about the situation in which we are informed that Minister Radziwiłł, although that law has been passed, is that he will not accept the provisions of that law and is mainly opposed to the physiotherapists' self-government. Therefore, the question to the Minister. Minister, which makes you feel better as a doctor than a physiotherapist, since you have the right to get together in accordance with the article. 17 constitutions in trade unions? Why shouldn't physiotherapists have the same right when it's also the right of nurses and midwives to have apothecaries when they also have other medical professions? I was also very concerned about the position of representatives of the PiS, who, at the time of the procedure of that law, felt that it was not a medical profession, that it was not a profession of public trust. I will remind you that in the 23 countries of the European Union this profession has been regulated by laws and has been recognised as a profession of public trust. I wanted to tell you that in our intention to proceed with the physiotherapist's profession law was the next step. Reconciliation of what a physiotherapist's profession is and the definition of competence allows us to open another law, a basket law, which we consider to be detrimental to the budget of the NFZ in the current state. Today we have such records, which cause - in view of the situation that there are 1,650 doctors in the labour market - that in fact the hospital itself needs 4,000. persons. There are signed agreements with the NFZ, with 6100 medical entities. Therefore, the question is whether these doctors are multiplying. What are these doctors really doing? Isn't that a fictional job? We have calculated that the costs of changes to the basket bill will result in some 250-300 million savings in the NFZ budget. So the question is, whose business today is to torpedoing the bill, which is waiting for the legalization to come in on March 31st. Is this in the interest of a narrow group and misunderstood industrial solidarity? I hope not, because most of us doctors support this bill. Therefore, since the provisions of the law presented by the applicant are almost identical, I do not agree with what my previous speaker said, because I was working on this law, I was one of those Members who devoted many months of work to it. During this work we consulted the provisions of one law and the other with the physiotherapists' environment, we obtained acceptance of these records. This law should therefore enter into force. Because as a Civic Platform we do not reject [[♪ The bell ♪]] Citizens' projects, we will vote in favour of recordings in this project. We have no choice but to refer this bill to the committees, but to ask that the committee proceedings be postponed until 31 May. This will be the day we say: I am checking whether there is really a good will to introduce a law that has already been transposed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u321	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present my position on the citizens' draft law on the physiotherapist profession. I am very concerned about the current strange situation associated with the entry into force of the physio therapist's profession law. I would like to remind you that on 26 October 2015, President Andrzej Duda signed a law on the profession of physiotherapist. The fact that the laws are accepted by the entire physiotherapist community requires emphasis. Currently, physiotherapists as well as patients expect this law to enter into force. Please note that the Ministry had 6 months to issue the relevant regulations. A great surprise was the fact that on 9 February this year. a draft law was submitted by the PiS Group, which proposed extending the time limit for the entry into force of the Act of 24 months. This project, which is likely to postpone the entry into force of the physiotherapist's profession law, was the reason for physiotherapists' protests and, as we remember, a very large manifestation of patients and physiotherapists before the Sejm. Today we have the first reading of the civil draft law on the profession of physiotherapist filed on 30 June. Complications with the entry into force of the physiotherapist law cause bitterness to all those involved in the work on the project signed by President Duda. It should be stressed that the project under discussion today is a civil project under which more than 132 000 have been signed. persons. I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that the signatures for this project were collected more than a year ago, when the law, which was published on 30 November, was still being processed in the Sejm. It wasn't the signing time you said the citizens... I am afraid that the current project may become an excuse - which seems very likely to me - to now deal with another project and not implement the law that was signed by President Andrzej Duda. I'd like to remind you that before the president signed this bill, the President's Office of Legal Affairs examined this bill. The question should be asked who cares that the bill that has been expected for 28 years has not yet entered into force. The problem facing doctors, physiotherapists, and patients today is the huge queues that this law, which should come into force, would significantly shorten. Currently, in NFZ facilities, a patient must first go to a specialist doctor, a neurologist, an orthopedician, and then wait for another appointment with a doctor, a rehabilitation doctor. The situation was to change with the Law, which was to enter into force on 31 May 2016, according to which a physiotherapist with a master's degree could be eligible for physiotherapy and plan to conduct treatments on his own. Here's a point: a physio therapist can't replace a specialist's doctor. This law, which was to enter into force and which, I hope, will enter into force on 31 May, also respects this principle. Doctors are very needed throughout the process, physiotherapists are engaged in rehabilitation. Legal regulation of the physiotherapist profession, which is third in number after doctors and nurses a group of medical professions, is now a necessity and is very expected by the environment of both patients and physiotherapists. Patients have the right to go to a specialist, and physiotherapists are such professionals. If the PiS Members see the need for changes in the project, as Mrs Kopcińska said, and believe that this should be changed, there is no problem, the High House will lean on it. As you know, this can be done very quickly. We had examples: in 1 day, 2 days were changed big laws. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[At night.]] No problem, we'll all really lean over this bill, let it come into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u323	Please take the floor of Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am honored on behalf of the Poselski Club to present our position on the citizens' draft law on the profession of physiotherapist, print number 29. With great surprise I read on the Sejm's website in the schedule of today's proceedings that the citizens' draft law on the profession of physiotherapist, print number 29. I would like to remind you that in the 7th term two draft physiotherapists were sent to the Sejm: the parliamentary one, submitted by the PSL Group on 23 July 2014, which ended with the adoption of the physiotherapist's law of 25 September, and the citizen we are to discuss today, brought to the Sejm on 30 June 2015, which was submitted mainly to remind Members of the first draft in the Committee on Health. This civic project obviously lost its sense at the time of the adoption of the physiotherapist's law of 25 September 2015. On 9 February 2016, members of the Law and Justice Club led by Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, who for some time have been doing their utmost to make life difficult for physiotherapists and thus, in my opinion as an orthopedic doctor, also for patients, brought to the Sejm a draft law amending the physiotherapist profession law, which assumes the extension of her vacathio legis to 24 months. In the so-called. In the meantime, some of the Members of this project have already withdrawn their support. In addition, the project itself received a negative opinion from OPZZ, NSZZ and employers' organisations of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! As if this were not enough, on Wednesday, 30 March 2016, a working meeting was held at the Ministry of Health, where the environment of rehabilitation doctors and physiotherapists was informed that the Ministry of Health was just finishing work on the amendment of the physiotherapist's law of 25 September. This amendment deprives the physiotherapists of their independence, imposing the necessity of mandatory fulfilment of doctor's orders with a rehabilitation specialty, and deprives the physiotherapists of real influence on any development of their profession. So the question is, what are we really talking about today? On the reform of the already passed law on the profession of physiotherapist, do you really want to continue the work on printing no. 29, which is intended to aim at the adoption of a law, the content of which is almost identical to the content of the act of 25 September, whose records are notoriously criticised by the state as allegedly incompatible with EU legislation and aimed at creating a threat to the health and life of patients? So I'm going to say a few sentences about the bill passed on 25 September and I'm going to try to refer to the allegations that are being formulated at its address, hoping that once I can convince you that this law should enter into force, any amendments, any additional seismic prints will simply cease to matter. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, not in all European countries, especially not in all countries of the world, physiotherapy is an independent medical profession. At this point, however, it is worth noting a noticeable trend towards a legislative increase in the powers of physiotherapists in the West of Europe. Leaving full supervision of a doctor with a rehabilitation specialty is not an attempt to put him back on a further, less significant plan for the patient's recovery process. It does not mean that the doctor is excluded from the treatment process. After all, the Act does not give physiotherapists the competence to make clinical diagnosis, but only functional diagnosis. Another issue that needs to be clarified is the provision of a law that states that the profession of physiotherapist is an independent medical profession. Does this mean that a physiotherapist is placed on equal footing with a doctor? Of course not. This provision provides only the basis for the powers to conduct a previously described functional diagnosis. Now a few sentences about the physiotherapist government. The aim of this self-government is to take care of the proper pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist, to promote the continuous improvement of professional qualifications by physiotherapists, to participate in the setting of standards and principles of evaluation of work in physiotherapy. Does the opposition of the PiS club and its Minister of Health regarding the formation of this local government mean that in the future you will eliminate the local government of nurses? Ladies and gentlemen, another incomprehensible argument is that of increasing the knowledge and competence of physiotherapists. You could talk a lot about how professional studies at Polish universities look in the field of physiotherapy, or about the fact that the law provides for a permanent obligation [[♪ The bell ♪]] updating their professional knowledge and skills and the right to professional training in different types of post-graduate education. I'm almost done, Marshal. However, I consider it essential that there is no need to compare the competence of doctors with the rehabilitation speciality and physiotherapists, because as I have already stressed, this law gives physiotherapists competence only in the field of functional diagnosis, for which they are very well prepared, this does not mean treatment, in general, to the full extent. As the Modern Parliamentary Club, we will expect the 31st of March when the bill will be signed... [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Maja.]] [[Maya, Maya.]] ...may, I'm sorry, by your President, will be signed by your President. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u325	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen representing the applicants! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the citizens' draft law on the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist in print No 29. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the last term of office, the efforts of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club... [[It's not just that.]] ...not only with the support of many benevolent Members and Members of this professional group, has a law been drawn up that gave the framework to the professional physiotherapist. Professional, who performs a crowd of 70,000 in Poland. professionals who enjoy a great reputation not only in Europe, but also universities that support this profession by creating good study programmes. In fact, during the current term of office of the Sejm, an initiative was created signed by a group of members of the Law and Justice torpedoing the entry into force, in practice, torpedoing the entry into force of this law. And probably, like most people, the whole issue is political, but today I would like to appeal to those who really want to torpedo this good bill, because it is difficult for it to accuse it of containing something that threatens either the state or the citizens, or, above all, what is important, patients, because it first of all introduces considerable facilitations for those whom we should primarily serve in this House today, and therefore for patients. Scandalism is those situations which, for example, have recently been revealed in the media in a very large number, an incredibly long period of waiting for rehabilitation, on various occasions, at a time when this rehabilitation, which is worse, will not have any effect. This is above all the thing that those who want to torpedo this bill should consider. This activity of the projectors, the PiS group, first of all, should be noted, is highly inconsistent, because President Andrzej Duda preceded the extensive public consultation and legal analysis carried out by his law firm with the entry into force and signature de facto under this law. Today, you are accusing this bill of a number of things. What is important in this bill? She, as I said earlier, sanctiones, sets up, gives legal framework to the work of the physiotherapist profession, creates self-government, which is important. I do not know why you are so afraid of everything that is local, but it allows you to give dynamics and further development of this profession. We will, of course, support the citizens' project as the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, but at the same time we will join those voices that have been cast here... [[Inclusion.]] ...count on the fact that there will be reflection in the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and there will be no attempts to stop trying to block the entry into force of the Law on the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist; so maybe it will be possible to save this law and allow it to enter into force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[From a coalitioner, a future.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u327	Thank you very much. There are 14 parliamentarians, ladies and gentlemen of the House to the questions. If there are no more interested parties, I close the list of those who are enrolled in the questions. I'm setting time for the question -- two minutes. Mr Piotr Nowak will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 30 years of waiting, 30 years of social dialogue and society, including with us, politicians, so that consensus can take place. A consensus arises as a result of a civil project, as a result of citizens' actions. It seems that what has been done in that parliamentary term should be highly respected by the PiS, who believes that citizens' projects are very constructive and should be subject to regulation and regulation. It's done. Meanwhile, at the moment, the environment of Law and Justice says no, no, no, but citizens may have decided something there, but it wasn't because it wasn't in the times of Law and Justice, we as Law and Justice are just going to get along with them, because you guys didn't really get along. And they -- society, society -- they say we've agreed that that's exactly what this environment wants. [[Applause]] This project meets all environmental recommendations. Therefore, we find out another thing. Here's after these regulations, after the bill to start on May 31st, the ministry invites you in and says: you know, this, we would like to change here and really limit it. Keep it down. Reduce your profession. Limit in the scope of the chamber, limit in the field of referrals, because only medical referrals, strictly designated, cannot be... In fact, reducing 80% of private practice in rehabilitation offices. We've all dealt with rehabilitation, we've all dealt with rehabilitators, we all remember a multiple request to us as politicians: hurry up, finally make this bill. Gentlemen, ladies of the PiS, hurry up and make this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What do you want to do? She's done.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u329	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Lydia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u330	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Applicant's Representatives! I have a few questions for both the Ministry and the representative of the applicants, but first of all I would like to stress that the law adopted on 25 September, which is due to enter into force on 31 May of this year, is a good law that consumes the social consensus of both citizens, patients, citizens, physiotherapists, citizens, doctors and all of us politicians, as responsible for the health system. Therefore, my question to the Minister: When will the organizational committee of the physiotherapist self-government be established? At what stage are preparations for this committee? This is, of course, time-consuming, and at least six months must pass from its appointment to its proper functioning, and that is only six weeks. At what stage is the preparation of implementing regulations for a law that was properly transposed and signed by President Duda after many consultations with different environments? I also have a question for the applicants. We have heard here from a Member of Law and Justice, the rapporteur of the club, that the physiotherapists' environment has doubts about the present law. I'd like to know what these doubts are, very specifically, because we don't know them, even though I've been working on this bill for a few months. I have a question for everyone: Where is the patient in all this confusion - his well-being, his safety and his sense of responsibility on our part for this very good? No one takes into account that this bill, the good bill first of all protects the patient's interests and she's there for it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To secure that, not the small lobby business. And don't tell me the medical community is against her. I am a representative of the medical community, which fully supports this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u331	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u332	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I am not a representative of the medical community, but I am a representative of patients, including, as an active athlete, those who use the services of physiotherapists. My speech is directly caused by the fact that environmental representatives have asked me, and several times, to meet. And at these meetings that I held, I learned from the environment, which, I hope, from 1 May we will be able to call self-government, that last year there was finally an agreement and a law on the profession of physiotherapist was adopted, President Duda signed this law on 25 September, 30 November this law was published in the Official Journal of the Laws. And my visit is due to the fact that it will be the first reading of their citizens' bill, under which they collected more than 130 thousand. signatures. As an MP, I wonder what this is all about. This is the first reading of your document, your project - the bill is accepted. Are you satisfied with it or do you not like it? No, we're happy, we've achieved our goal, everything is very good. Then where's the trouble? The problem is that the PiS Members have tabled an amendment to extend the vacathio legis by two years. Let me remind you that when we amended the Constitutional Court Act, there was no vacathio legis. [[Two hours.]] And here by two years. I'm just a humble Member, and that's why, frankly, it wouldn't have occurred to me that you can manipulate the law so much and so cheat a large, over 70,000 social, professional group, but above all patients. This is related to my question to the government, which is really the cause of this incredible confusion and abuse: What lobbyist forces, who are the servants behind this behavior? Who manipulates the entire parliament, manipulates the public, the citizens? Shouldn't these treatments become the subject of the test? [[♪ The bell ♪]] By Central Corruption Bureau? Because there is no doubt that this is about preventing patients from using public money. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u333	Thank you very much, sir. Don't exaggerate, sir, with that modesty. Speaking of myself as merely a humble envoy... Sławek Nitras - a humble Member. [[We have the same modesty from the same sources. We're from the same institute.]] Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Pavel Papke.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u334	I see he's humorous. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In my questions, I would like to clarify the position of the applicants to make their voice clear to the Ministry of Health and to the parliamentarians of Law and Justice. First of all, is the citizens' project you presented today consistent with the provisions of the physiotherapist's law, which was voted out in the Seym and the Senate and signed by President Andrzej Duda? And second question: Did the bill I was talking about gain acceptance of the physiotherapists' environment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u335	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr Mark Hok.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Gentlemen of the applicants! I'm actually representing the medical community, so we're gonna talk about our perceptions in a different way. This bill, which has been passed and signed by your President, is not the only one waiting for about 70,000. physiotherapists, but there are also thousands, you can say, several thousand, patients who are waiting for rehabilitation in long multi-month queues. This rehabilitation is so expected today, so necessary - cardiological, neurological, orthopedic and many others. There's no such thing as access to it. A few thousand pseudophysiotherapists are waiting for this bill, who, without any experience and without any knowledge, perform this profession under very different conditions. Today in Poland, the answer to the question of who can become a physiotherapist is simple: anyone can become a physiotherapist, enough... [[Hairdresser.]] ... finish a couple of months of physiotherapy courses in various centers run, start a business and consider yourself a physiotherapist. [[Couple of days.]] [[Ukraine.]] Therefore, this law is necessary, it is very necessary. I think it is necessary to complete these two draft laws, i.e. a civil project, which, it turns out, because today many times everyone has confirmed it, is very much in line with what was expected in the environment, and this law already adopted, signed - we wait only until 31 May until it is actually implemented. Finally, I have a question for Minister Radziwiłłła, whether she continues to acknowledge her speech on 28 October. I quote: "It is wrong that this bill was made. Making a physiotherapist a first contact professional who himself accepts patients, plans to treat them and has access to medical records, is not a good solution. We're gonna have to work on this bill. It's not carved in stone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's too bad it didn't happen because today we wouldn't be talking about this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u337	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr Marian Zembala. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I would like us not to establish such a division, that this is the veto of the PiS and of other environments. I would like us to look at this necessary law as an element developed by the local government with a very large, dominant acceptance of the medical environment, which mostly understands the need for rehabilitation, just as our excellent colleague Dr. Ruciński, an orthopedist, as well as those excellent specialists, doctors of rehabilitation, whom I asked to formulate an opinion - from Piekar, from Otwocka, from many backgrounds. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Because I value Minister Radziwiłł, as much as anyone who... believes and I am asking you to help me in this matter, also for some mediation that will save the day. Finally. You may not remember, but there was a very famous rehabilitator untrained, had sons of prominent orthopedicians, his name was Paluch, lived at Opole, had great people coming to him, the first people in the country with the primate of sleep. Stefan Wyszyński and others included. And this is the best testimonial to introduce in orthopedics solutions that are civic. That's what you're asking for, and that's what you're asking, marshal. I believe we'll do it calmly. Let's not say PiS didn't say PiS. Let's bring it in calmly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u339	Thank you very much, Professor. I ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Kostusia. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u340	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Opponents, few opponents of the physiotherapists' profession law, often refer to the provision of this law, which supposedly gives physiotherapists the right to make a diagnosis equivalent to a medical diagnosis. The materials I've read show that physiotherapists will only be entitled to make a functional diagnosis. I would therefore ask you to take a position on this matter, and in particular to clarify the difference between a functional diagnosis and a medical diagnosis. And another question. In the context of numerous speeches, discussions, correspondence with representatives of the physiotherapists' community, also referring to Mr Rajmund Miller's statements, I kindly ask whether it is true that at one of the meetings with representatives of the medical industry, Minister Radziwiwiłł strongly stated that he would not allow the establishment of a physiotherapist self-government. I would therefore ask you to take a position on this issue, also in particular in the context of the provisions of the Article. 17 Constitution on the possibility of creating professional self-governments by law. Finally: What will be the consequences and consequences of a lack of physiotherapist self-government when such self-governments have doctors, pharmacists or nurses? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u341	Thank you. And please take the floor of Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u342	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I remember how much it was last year, when we were trying to convert this bill, the emotions, how much time it took, how many different arguments for and against it. It's not true that the bill was made quickly at the end of the year. She was very strongly discussed with both the medical environment, the rehabilitation environment and the physiotherapist environment. This is a kind of consensus - this law, which has not yet entered into force, has already aroused so much emotion. If she were so bad and there were so many mistakes in her, it wouldn't be the President's signature. That is why I believe that what is proposed at the moment, and the possible debate on the civil project, is a mere and exclusively confusing subject, throwing it in completely unnecessary at a time when nothing bad has happened yet. At the same time, we hear that the Ministry is preparing another project which absolutely reverses the policy that has been so far and changes the basic fundamental provisions. My question is to you, Minister. You're also a doctor. Then, too, we consulted the medical community on this law. Do we really need this kind of project right now, which will cause - I'll put it straight - the rooting of the subject, and which absolutely does not solve or push things forward at the moment? The physical therapist community has waited many years for this to happen. Give them a chance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u343	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Cieślinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The law on the profession of physiotherapist adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 25 September 2015 and signed by the President on 26 October of the same year is the result of a compromise of the circles of doctors and physiotherapists developed for several years. It contains regulations which, above all, guarantee the highest level of patient health services. The expression of this is, among others. legal approval of the local government of the therapeutic environment, which is responsible for this. I'd like to ask questions. What extraordinary circumstances have occurred since 5 February 2016, when the government took the position that the provisions of this law are identical to the provisions of the Act already passed, which was due to enter into force on 31 May 2016? Therefore, the government said that there is no need to proceed with this bill. Therefore, the question is: What are the circumstances that decided that Mr Marshal decided to proceed with this bill today? And is it not at the heart of these proposals that an attempt is made to pursue the particular interests of the narrow lobby, disregarding the most important value of the health of our citizens? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u345	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're gonna rally the citizens' bill. Personally, I am not involved in any medical profession in any way, which does not mean that I do not value these professions, on the contrary. As a patient of physiotherapists, I've experienced a lot of good. I have come across their great competence, kindness and such a positive approach to this group. As a patient, however, I would like to ask the applicant's representative: What will it mean for patients to adopt a citizens' bill at the moment when we have a law signed by the President that is about to enter into force? [[Voice from the room: in two years.]] I mean both queues and, above all, competence in the provision of physiotherapeutic services, care for the patient's health. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u347	Thank you very much, Member. I would like the floor of Mrs Mirosława Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u348	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I wonder in all this obsessive search for enemies by rulers: from vegetarians, cyclists and horse lovers to physiotherapists to Europe. What do you mean? Why don't you want a bill that the whole community has been looking for for for so long? She was widely consulted and signed by the President. What's the point of all this, and where's the patient in all this? In 2013, there were 613 thousand waiting for rehabilitation, according to the NIK report. people, and the waiting time was 150 days. I have a question: How is this presented now, and with these demographic factors that we have, an ageing society, are you able to create a system that would change this situation, that is to say, improve the availability of rehabilitation for patients? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u349	Thank you very much, Member. I'd just like to point out, by the way, as a representative of the government camp... [[Voice from the room: But why?]] ...that I love horses. [[But not the Arabs.]] My grandfather grew It's not Arabic, it's judicial. I like bikes and vegan cuisine, too, Member. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much, Madam President. Please take the floor of Mr Rajmund Miller.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have an opportunity to recall the history of this bill. The physiotherapists and patients have been waiting for this bill for 28 years. Hence my concern about the information I received from the physiotherapists' community that they were treated in a very clear way in the ministry with a definitive statement by Minister Radziwiłł that there was no consent to local government. I would like to remind you that the local government guarantees both respect for ethics and quality in terms of both services provided, control over open offices, as well as entire training and specialisation processes. I just wanted to say what the legal situation is today. Well, today, after a few days, the so-called. a course which does not give any certificate and for which the competence of its hosts is not proven at all, you can register a physiotherapy office at the municipal office of each municipality, being a locksmith, with all due respect for this profession or having any other profession. I'll remind you that in college, students have over 6,000 in physiotherapy. hours of classes in which they learn anatomy, physiology, and above all this functional diagnosis and conduct of the patient. Therefore, don't be surprised that our questions are so suspicious. The introduction of this law will hit this very narrow group that harms society. This bill will make the local government against which Minister Radziwiłł is responsible decide on the granting of professional rights and decisions, permissions to open a physiotherapeutic practice. Without this bill, it's impossible. The absence of this law will result in the continuation of these activities. The next step, again the question to the ministry: Why are you defending a situation where everyone can conduct a course? Unfortunately, even those with scientific titles [[♪ The bell ♪]] They run courses... Just a few more words.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u351	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u352	...active procedures in the cervical spine, and we have many reports that such people have deprived patients of their lives, that these people have mutilated... There's a doctor in my region, in Curly-Koźl, a veterinarian who has tetraplegia after that. A girl, 28 years old, has been mutilated and there are no consequences. I'm not gonna prolong it. Minister, my question is this: What is your attitude towards the appointment of a physiotherapist self-government? If it is negative, please tell me why, in a situation where there is a medical authority, a nursing authority and an apothecary government? Because we don't understand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u353	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Kossakowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Representative of the Citizens' Initiative! High Izbo! I always say that the social initiative deserves special attention on our part and requires a very thorough look at the proposed solutions or suggestions. This is an expression of the maturity of the society to which we, Members, should respect very much, especially given the subject of the project, namely the health care of Poles. We all know very well that in this respect We are at one of the last places in Europe, so let the work devoted to this project be one of the elements of the repair of Polish health services. My question is: Will a citizen of one of the Member States who does not have at least a professional degree in physiotherapy and has obtained another equivalent professional degree in his country be able to join the State Physiotherapy Exam? I'm asking because there may be some kind of collision here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u355	Thank you very much. The list of speakers has been exhausted. I therefore ask that the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Marek Tombarkiewicz speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u356	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Since the range of questions is very wide, I am certainly not able to answer all of them. Besides, some of the Members who are asking have already left the room, and I do not know whether these were rhetorical questions or whether they were expecting answers. As for what I can answer right now, I am ready to provide all the information I have, while certain information regarding the length of time, queues at the moment I am unable to provide. Of course, we'll gather this kind of information and pass it on. I would like to highlight a few points in general. I mean, from what I know, Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł never said he was against the creation of a local government, because it would be in contradiction, for example, with the fact that it comes from a medical government. We have the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office and the Ministry of Health's analyses are underway regarding compliance with the article. 17, Art. 22, Art. Article 65 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 constitutions just set up a professional self-government for physiotherapists, therefore I would not extend it so unambiguously, I would not say that Minister Radziwiłł is categorically opposed, because he has never said such a thing. Similarly, there is absolutely no threat to the functioning of the nursing authorities, because such a statement was also made here. [[That was sarcasm.]] I'm trying to answer that, sir. [[To the point, Minister.]] Of course, I'll get to the point. I would also like to point out that the fact that in many countries a physiotherapist is a medical profession is not equivalent to creating a professional corporation. These are two different issues, so you have to separate these elements here too. As regards the drafting of regulations, these regulations to the Act must be assessed by the National Chamber of Physiotherapists, which can only be established after the entry into force of the Act. Therefore, before the entry into force of the Act there is no possibility to physically present the Regulation, while technical work in the health department is ongoing, these works are ongoing. Maybe it is not as visible as the applicants of the bill, this civil project they wish, while the work is going on. As far as doubts are concerned, Minister Radziwiłł has made his statement clear. He stands on such, and very right, a position that he is from obeying, enforcing the law. Therefore, if there are doubts about some inconsistencies concerning, for example, the provisions of the physiotherapist's law with the Higher Education Act, such elements must be taken into account, as we see a lack of possibility for delegations to develop standards for physiotherapy training in the current form of the law. I understand that Mr CBA's words were also sarcastic, and if so, I will not comment on it. Of course, everyone has the right to submit an appropriate request to examine whether what is happening in the health department is in accordance with the law. I assure you it is. With regard to the convergence of these two drafts, the citizens' project applicants themselves will certainly be able to express themselves perfectly. And now I would also like to point out that the fact that we have economic freedom and that people can register this type of business is in complete contradiction with the possibility of providing public-funded benefits. So, unfortunately, there are situations about which we have heard here that someone has been damaged not by a professional, not by a physiotherapist, but by a person following a course that has registered an economic activity. We absolutely condemn this kind of action. But it has nothing to do with the physiotherapist's profession, really. [[A voice from the room: Minister, ma'am.]] But we have to have... [[Ma, Minister, because once the bill is in place, you can't open these offices. It will not be possible to open such an office with the inscription "physiotherapy." If they open up, they'll be prosecuted by the D.A. Today they can only be prosecuted by civil actions, which is ineffective. Please understand that this is of great importance to the patient.]] Of course, it's very important for patient safety, but the kind of situation that's been happening... We cannot be held responsible for the fact that someone on the basis of economic freedom opened an office after a short course. It must be counteracted, but if there are doubts about the provisions of the various articles in the Act, these doubts should be clarified. And that's why there were three meetings at the Ministry of Health with the physiotherapists' community to explain these doubts. The work is going on. Therefore, the position of the government to which I am empowered to present is clear from February that we do not see the merits of further proceding a civil project. On the other hand, during the extended vacathio legis proposed by the applicants by the Act of 9 February, these questionable entries could be analysed. We think it would be better that way. [[Minister, we've been maiming and killing people for two years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u357	Mr President, I am sorry, but we are at this point at the moment when the Minister speaks. You're welcome. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: I understand that Minister Zembala's statement was polemic, and I will not comment on it. When it comes to the difference between a functional diagnosis and a medical diagnosis, a medical examination is a much broader concept. The study consists of a physical examination, a physical examination, an examination of all systems, while a functional examination refers only, in this particular case, to a single organ, i.e. a locomotor organ. So, of course, there is a significant difference between the record of a physical examination that is designed to be performed by a physiotherapist and a medical examination. So that here we absolutely see a clear difference. Yes, the bill was proceded and obtained a significant consensus, but we still need to remember that there were protests of the medical community. Of course, the environment, like all, is not uniform and some doctors will certainly support the rapid entry into force of this law, such as those professional groups that are most involved in physiotherapy, namely orthopedics, neurologists, cardiochirurgeons. On the other hand, when it comes to the number and comparison of doctors of emergency medicine with the number of physiotherapists, it is of course a huge difference. However, it should also be remembered that e.g. In neurological rehabilitation departments, the chief may be not only a rehabilitation specialist, but also a balneology and another specialty. There are opportunities for three specialists who may be chief of neurological rehabilitation. So that you shouldn't think that if there's a certain number of medical rehabilitation specialists, that means that they, I don't know, donuts, that there are more branches in which these doctors work. So it's not so zero-one, it's not unambiguous. [[Yes, sir.]] As far as the question is, why don't we want a bill? I would like to remind you once again that, in view of the doubts raised at the Ministry of Health, whose head is Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł, we believe that additional analyses should be carried out to clarify any doubts, as well as risks that may arise in relation to the provisions of the Act in relation to, for example. to the physiotherapists' environments. And it's all about explaining all kinds of doubts. Perhaps the vacathio legis 2-year-old is too long, while you certainly need to talk. We stand in the position that any doubts should be clarified so that any provisions of the Act are as safe as possible. The next question, again related to the local government - I repeat that Minister Radziwiłł never said that he was absolutely against the emergence of a physiotherapist self-government. Besides, Minister Radziwiłł did not attend all three meetings. You must have attended two meetings with Minister Pinkas. Perhaps the Minister said, in a more or less fortunate way, or rather less fortunate, the thesis about the physiotherapist self-government. Surely this issue is now subject to analysis of compliance with the rules underlying the creation of a professional self-government. As far as questions are concerned, it seems to me that in the area where they were addressed to the Ministry, this is what I could answer right now. On the other hand, we will provide you with detailed figures for sure. I would also like to say that there is no certainty that the entry into force of the Act will immediately result in shorter queues because there is no possibility. Yes, it is a step in the right direction, believe that our position is very similar, but we stand in the position that any doubts that have arisen as regards the functioning of this law should be clarified. Although the bill has been proceded, many analyses have been carried out, it has been signed and is awaiting entry into force, we are in the position that additional analyses should be carried out. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Ernest Wiśniewski, representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, please take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There were a lot of questions, so I'd like to address them one at a time. On the other hand, first of all, I would like to stress that we, as the Committee of the Citizens' Initiative, have received a mandate from the public in the form of signatures under the law... 130,000. people signed, more than 100 patient organizations, each of which brings together several thousand, and some of them several thousand people, patients. It was the patients who gave us a mandate to perform here today and defend the physio therapist's profession. This is over 0.5 million people who only gave us this ticket in three months. As long as we have this social mandate, we will be discussing here with you that this bill should come in. One thing I would like to stress is that the citizens' project is identical to a project that has already been adopted, i.e. the Act of 25 September 2015. The only thing we want is for this law to enter into force without obstacles. The fact that today is a citizens' project is not due to our desire to proceed with the bill, it is only the Seym procedure. Today's deadline has been imposed on us. We have learned about this date today, as you have learned. So do we. It is not that we have acted as an environment, as the Citizens' Initiative Committee, that we now want a new law. This project was submitted due to the seismic structures. [[There you go.]] [[He's talking to everyone.]] We didn't know it, we didn't know that we could discuss it, that we could ask for a delay or an appeal. We got a letter, a note: it's happening today at an hour. 16, please come in. You'll be presenting. This bill, this civic project, is in line with the draft adopted by the Sejm on 25 September and signed by President Andrzej Duda. [[Applause]] [[Bravo for the president.]] [[No, bravo for the committee.]] The only thing we expect is that this bill will come into force in six weeks. We are opposed to any amendment, because far-reaching amendments are radically different from a project that has been submitted by citizens and from a project that has been discussed and adopted by the broad and all environments. These few months have been devoted to work in subcommittees and parliamentary committees, in order to negotiate all these doubts. Finally, the bill was passed. For us, it is completely incomprehensible when today we have to go through the same hell again. It would be obvious to us that after six months of vacathio legis in the Ministry of Health, we only talk about the regulations implementing the law, not about the amendment. So, I stress once again: what we expect, and what the people who gave us this mandate to support, is that this act of September 25 will enter into force on 31 May, without amendment, without amendment. Now I'm going to take a brief look at these questions. First question, Mrs Lydia Gądek: What doubts do we have about the act of 25 September as a committee? I think I answered earlier - we have no doubts. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] This is the law that we expect, which 0.5 million people in Poland expect, who have expressed their support for the civil project. It's a sign of equality. Through the work of the Parliament's Health Committee and subcommittees, these projects have been aligned. Today we see no differences between these projects. So when we answer that question, we have no doubt. [[Thank you very much.]] Another question asked by Mr Paul - I do not want to twist the name - Papke: Is the citizens' project consistent with the parliamentary project? Totally. As of today, these are two convergent projects. Of course, they differ in detail because the citizens' project was not proceded for many months, while the parliamentary project went through the whole legislative process. All provisions that were disputed, which were not in line with EU rules, have been modified. The Sejm Analysis Office made a clear statement and all comments from the Sejm Analysis Office were accepted. Then the bill passed through the Senate, which could make comments, but did not. In the end, the President also had the opportunity to refer the bill, if he had any doubts, to the Constitutional Court, but he did not do so, signed it, which means that this law is complete, accepted by all the environments and by society, free of legal errors. We are aware that this is not a perfect bill, but are there ideal laws? If there are doubts in the course of the law, of course we will be able to modify certain things, but let this law enter into force. Thus, in answer to the question whether the citizens' project coincides with the parliamentary one, I say: yes, completely, for the moment it is a completely convergent project. Does he have the support of the environment? Absolutely so, support for the physical therapist environment, as well as for patients who expressed their support, were also under the Seym on 26 February. Our patients are here to protest, waiting for this bill to come into force. After 28 years, we have seen that there are six weeks until the date of the Act's entry into force, and at the moment this law is being blocked - blocked due to the introduction of the amendment, the lack of implementing rules. The next question was addressed by Mr Tomasz Kostusia. What is the difference between physiotherapeutic examination, functional examination, what is it, what are the differences with regard to medical examination? This accusation has been made to us throughout the legislative process: that we want to enter - I apologize for the expression - into the doctor's shoes that we will now replace doctors, we will examine patients. Ladies and gentlemen, in the physiotherapist's law of 25 September 2015 in Article. 2 is written that the physiotherapist performs a functional examination, not a medical examination. What's the difference between a functional examination and a medical examination? In 2001, the World Health Organization defined - this is not our invention - the World Health Organization - a model of functional research, defining them as ICF, International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health, indicating unambiguously that the ICF concept study, functional testing, belongs to the same group of tests, which includes the ICD-10 medical diagnosis. They must exist at the same time, not replace each other. Medical examination gives us a diagnosis, gives us a diagnosis. A proverbial stroke is a medical diagnosis. We physiotherapists don't diagnose strokes like we don't diagnose cancers, just like we don't diagnose a number of other diseases or injuries. On the other hand, a functional examination determines how a disease or injury reduces in everyday life, which is not present in a medical diagnosis. A functional study is supposed to show what limitations exist, what it means, whether a patient after a stroke can climb down stairs, can get out of bed, go to the toilet, and doesn't need help there, or is capable of taking a job. It's a functional study, it's the subject of our work, the physical therapist's work. What does that mean? This means that not every person who has the same diagnosis has the same limitations at the level of functioning in everyday life and vice versa. [[That's right.]] People who have a similar level of operating limitations can easily be imagined. A man can't go down the stairs after a stroke, but a man with an endoprothesis can't go down the stairs or a man with a back pain can also have difficulty climbing the stairs sometimes. This does not mean that people who have the same level of functioning have the same disease, and only a common medical examination, medical examination, giving diagnosis and diagnosis and defining all kinds of contraindications and underlying diseases, and functional examination, which are performed by physiotherapists, gives a complete picture of the patient's health status. The physiotherapeutic examination we perform gives the basis for planning the improvement process, because there is a defined problem. Today, the National Health Fund does not carry out functional diagnostics. What does that mean? This means that physiotherapy is planned only on the basis of a list of treatments defined by the NFZ. Patients in Poland have been undergoing treatments for 50 years. Physiotherapy is not going to the movies, ladies and gentlemen, physiotherapy is a treatment. We're also involved in the treatment process, we're treating with motion. We need to define the problem, define it and solve it, which is to select the tools. Our work, our work tools are selected according to the defined problem, cannot be defined before. This is a mistake. in art, for 15 years in the world this is considered an error in art. Today it is the standard in the National Health Fund. Let's talk about it openly, these are mistakes in the physical therapist's art. Why? Because we were completely shut down, we were beyond the margin of influence on our work. After 5 years of study, a physical therapist receives a referral and an order to do what he has to do. Then why do we need college? Why do we need college? To study for five years to do a 15-minute suspension order? An average 15-year-old will do this. You don't have to educate physiotherapists in college for five years. And our education doesn't end in college, we're postgraduate, each of us spends a lot of thousands of hours in postgraduate courses. We've been training our whole lives and we just want to do our job properly, that's all. I hope that this is an exhaustive answer to the question of how the functional examination differs from the medical examination and why it is necessary to perform it at the same time. What the consequences, I'm sorry, I didn't hear whether the government was called or not. [[Invocations.]] Invocations of self-government. As a result of the failure to set up a local government, there will really be a lack of an authority that will oversee a 70-thousand professional group, a body that will be able to plan the development of this profession, verify the study plans, the specialization plans referred to, the development of prevention programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, today in Poland there is no concept of physioprofile. We're the ones who know the organ of motion, we're the ones who've been learning for five years how to use the organ of motion in prevention and treatment. This is not in the program of medical, nursing, or speech therapy or anything else. That's what we've been learning for five years. Why don't you want to take advantage of our experience? Lack of movement causes enormous complications in humans. The fact that we are so overweight among children that we are at risk of demographics that older people are having trouble getting to the pharmacy for the drugs we want to sell them. [[Deficiencies of posture.]] Disadvantages of attitudes and thousands of others. After 60 years of age, we have over 60% of people in Poland at risk of stroke. This is all prevention of the movement organ, this is all prevention of physical activity. We know each other. We learn that in college. We want to offer this to you as our work. The lack of self-government is the lack of an authority that supervises it, which takes care of the rightful pursuit of the profession, because only a central organisation which is empowered by law is able to verify whether the physiotherapist actually works according to the art, valid medical knowledge, valid knowledge evidence based medicine or not. Today I can say with full responsibility that 80% services refunded in the NFZ do not stick to evidence based medicine. Ladies and gentlemen, you're paying for the placebo. I am sorry to point this out to you as Members, but we, as a state, are budgeting things that are below the threshold of placebo. The next question was asked by Ewa Tomaszewska. What will it be for the patient to adopt a civil project? I would like to refer to it this way. The citizens' project is a parliamentary project that has been adopted, which means it is no longer a project, it is a law. We sign this bill with two hands. Patients will gain safety first and foremost. It is safe that the person responsible for this physiotherapy process has the appropriate competence and qualifications. They will gain direct contact with their physiotherapist that they will not have to wait for many months on request and referral. Finally, they will gain faith that the physiotherapist who is conducting this therapy is legally obliged to improve his qualifications, and many other positive situations. The patients are the drivers of this bill. It is for them that this law is actually being processed and for them it has entered into force. We are, of course, a professional group that provides these services, so it could not have been a patient bill. On the other hand, it was written and processed primarily for patients who have been waiting for therapy for months today. And we don't want that. We want to cut those lines short. We want to make sure that those who provide these services today are those who have the right competences, and the local government is able to guarantee that, no other institution. The last question, actually a few questions, or actually statements which were made here by Minister Marek Tombarkiewicz. I'm sorry if I twisted your name. First most important thing. The Minister said he was against self-government. Fortunately, these meetings have been recorded and we can look into it. But I'm glad the ministry's position today is that he's pulling out of it, that it wasn't there. And we take it that the Minister is behind the local government, if I read the intentions of your speech well. I guess we went to two different meetings. We were at different meetings where those words were written. But I'm glad that's what you said here. We want this self-government, our patients want this self-government and the people who gave us a mandate to speak here today, they want this self-government too. I'm not going to agree that it's not going to change anything, that the NFZ is verifying who's competent today and who's not. It is true, but only to a certain extent, because today the Act on Economic Freedom allows everyone - here were words after several months of courses, sorry, not after several months of courses, but without any courses - to start a physical therapist business today and provide these services. Not in the NFZ, of course. That's right. The NFZ checks this out, only that the NFZ is only 20% of the service. People, waiting after 8 and 10 months for services in the NFZ, are looking for this help on the commercial market, and that's where this bill is supposed to give security. Not in the NFZ, because there are regulations in the NFZ that guarantee this security today, and we have no doubt about it. This one thing. NFZ guarantees: people employed under the National Health Fund have a diploma of physiotherapist, that's right. 80% these services are provided outside the NFZ market. 80%. What does that mean? That there is a risk that any citizen of this country can open and cheat patients for six more weeks. Everyone. [[Will this bill change that?]] Please? [[Will this bill change that?]] Totally. [[Definitely.]] The law introduces the right to pursue a profession, and the right to pursue a profession is to verify and award a physical therapist, the body which is the only one able to verify whether the person claiming to be a physiotherapist is really a physiotherapist. He can verify whether the diploma he will present for verification is actually a university diploma, whether it's a copied diploma or a two-semester school. We can verify that. And even if this right is granted without providing, the local government will be able to verify the provision of these services by quality and method, it introduces the obligation to keep records. Based on the physical therapist's own records, we will be able to check whether the physical therapist is really doing his job properly. If not, we have the right organs to counter it, as is the case with the E.R., so is the E.R. If there is a person on the Polish market who has a suspicious competence, the doctor's office has the right to intervene. And we want the same thing from the physiotherapist government and for our professional group, just and exclusively to protect patients. So that I completely disagree that this government is not needed, because it's all settled. Nothing's done for the day. Ladies and gentlemen, if this bill doesn't come into force, a few thousand, tens of thousands of people will come here, at the Sejm, one more time, and will come here until the end, because they want this bill. We want her, too. Therefore, as a committee - I think that this is where Mr Miller put it best - at the moment we do not want to proceed with another law, please do not understand us By the way, we didn't come here to conduct a civil project. We stayed, you might say, summoned to you to explain ourselves, so we're explaining ourselves. We expect the act of 25 September to enter into force, which means that the implementing rules will be prepared, because I have attended all meetings, I am sorry, not all, in most working meetings at the Ministry of Health. It wasn't an unseemly statement, Minister, it was just a position on the table of the draft amendment. If this is called an unseemly statement, then we need to redefine it, say what it means. Because if someone puts it on their desk... [[Scandal.]] ...ready draft amendment, from which the local government, from which it is deleted... The profession of physiotherapist is an independent medical profession - delete. The profession of physiotherapist can be organised in the form of self-government - delete. Is that an unseemly statement? To me, that is a very clear statement. To this day, and there have been some of these meetings, we haven't even started talking about the implementing rules, and that's what we expect. Six weeks to go. As we declared, we declare it again. We want to be a part of this, we want to help you. In six weeks, the bill will enter into force. We would like her to be able to come in, i.e. to have a local government, an organisational committee of the local government, and work on implementing rules started. Then the bill will come into force, then it will secure the citizens. We all care about the safety of citizens, the safety of patients, and we agree on that. Then what's the problem? Finally, I would just like to stress once again: We are wholeheartedly in favour of the entry into force of the Law of 25 September. We didn't come here to investigate a new project right now. We've been summoned here to the rug and we'd like to ask you to do this bill, if it's even legalized, postpone until the bill that is already in force comes into force, because patients... [[We're hoping he'll come in.]] We sincerely hope he comes in. We believe that this law will enter into force on 31 May. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u359	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' draft law on the profession of physiotherapist, contained in print 29, to the Health Committee for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. High Izbo, I'm announcing a three-minute technical break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min 47 hrs. 17 min 57]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report by the European Commission on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity (prints No 410 and 414). I ask Mr Jan Mosiński to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the European Union Commission, I have the honour to present to the High House the reasons for adopting a resolution on the recognition of a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The European Commission has presented a proposal to amend Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, which is premature and undermines the joint obligations of the institutions of the European Union and the Member States to adopt legislation based on prior evaluation of existing solutions in a given area, which should reduce the regulatory burden imposed. In the Committee's view, Member States' efforts should focus on the correct implementation of the implementation directive adopted in 2014. This Directive offers Member States appropriate and sufficient instruments to combat abuse and unfair competition, as well as to protect posted workers. In examining the changes proposed by the European Commission, the European Union's Affairs Commission has highlighted a number of important issues. Firstly, the free movement of workers, freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services are fundamental principles of the internal market in the European Union contained in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The changes introduced by the European Commission infringe the freedom of the internal market and consequently, according to the Commission for European Union Affairs, the principle of subsidiarity, which is apparent by changing the wording of the Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 Directive. Secondly, the proposal lacks any justification for the compatibility of the proposed directive with the principle of subsidiarity. Such justification cannot be regarded as a single sentence stating that, I quote, the existing Directive can only be amended by adopting a new directive. Thirdly, the absence of such justification and, in particular, the absence of any qualitative and quantitative indicators constitutes an infringement of Article. Five minutes to protocol two. Moreover, it makes it significantly more difficult if it does not prevent national Parliaments from exercising their power to control respect for the principle of subsidiarity. Here the legal basis is included in the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, Article 12 lit. b the Treaty on European Union and Article. 6 of Protocol No 2. And fourthly, also designed art. 3 (1) (a) 1b Directive 96/71 of the European Communities, which is to replace the existing Article. 3 (1) (a) 9 directives violate the principle of subsidiarity. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for European Union Affairs also took note of the views of the social side and the opinions of employers' organisations. According to the committee, each party has shown great responsibility for the environment it represents. Among other things, NSZZ.Solidarity pointed out that the competitiveness of Polish companies cannot be built on the basis of lower labour costs, as relying solely on such comparative advantages will in the long term reduce the quality of human capital and will not help the Polish economy move up the value added chain. On the other hand, employers' organisations have pointed out that the restrictions that may be encountered in the implementation of the changes proposed by the European Commission will increase unemployment, especially in the construction sector, in not only the border area but also in the whole country, thereby reducing PIT and CIT tax revenues. The hearing of the committee on the social side confirms that the social dialogue on changes related to the evaluation of the draft Directive 96/71 of the European Communities has been carried out and has given specific impetus to the work of the committee. On behalf of the committee, I thank the social side for its active participation in the work of the European Union Committee on Affairs. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about dialogue at European Union level. It is important to point out to the European Commission that there is no overall consultation of the proposal put forward by the Commission with cross-sectoral representative organisations of the European social partners, including BUSINESSEUROPE, CEEP, UEAPME and the European Trade Union Confederation. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In summing up the justification for the draft resolution, firstly, taking into account the negative social, economic and financial impact assessments that may take place after the entry into force of the proposed amendments to Directive 96/71 of the European Communities, it is necessary to focus on the correct implementation of the implementing directive, i.e. Directive 2014/67 of the European Union of 15 May 2014, especially as there is no assessment of the effects of its operation as it has not yet been implemented. This deadline is June 18th of this year. Secondly, and this is the most important, in the Commission's assessment of European Union affairs, the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71 of the European Communities, the European Parliament and the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services - COM (2016) 128 final - infringes the principle of subsidiarity. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft directive is a draft legislative act and concerns an area where the European Union shares competence with the Member States. The basis for this is Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 and paragraph 1. 2 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) On the basis of the article. 6 and Article 6 The draft directive is assessed by the national Parliament in terms of its compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. I therefore ask the High House to adopt a resolution on the recognition of a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71 of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity, as the proposed directive does not ensure that the objectives of the intended action at Union level are achieved in a way that is better than those of national action. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u361	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. Let me remind you that according to the article. 148cc (paragraph 148c) 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on the report shall be held without the right to submit amendments. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Izabela Kloc will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the contested resolution. High Izbo! Posting workers plays an important role in cross-border provision of services. The possibility of providing services in other Member States, in particular for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, represents an opportunity to develop activities throughout Europe. Posting of workers creates business opportunities and opportunities for employment, creates additional income in sending countries and contributes to improving competitiveness and efficiency in host countries. These are mutual benefits. On the other hand, the amendments to the proposed directive will hit entrepreneurs from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe in the first place. In this context, the most serious concerns are the introduction of a posting solution lasting more than 24 months or the introduction of a wage requirement covering all components of the remuneration in force in the country concerned. It should be noted that the observed pay gap between the Member States of the European Union is the result of the remaining differences at the level of economic development and cannot be seen as unfair competition. The introduction of the proposed changes would imply additional costs for the entrepreneur from the sending countries, which could result in a reduction in the number of posted workers from Poland. Here it is estimated that in the European Union nearly 2 million workers are posted annually by their employers to work in another Member State. Poland is the country from which the most workers are posted, and therefore the most important consequences are the reduction in the activity of small and medium-sized enterprises. Increased costs on the part of Polish employers will reduce the competitiveness of Polish companies and reduce resources for business development. Further, increasing barriers to the free activity of companies from other countries within the European Union will adversely affect economic growth in the European Union due to a decrease in competition and an increase in service prices for end-users. Many other negative consequences could be mentioned here. Such initiatives should be considered discriminatory as they undermine the interests of a group of Member States, as well as disproportionate ones, as the stated regulatory objectives can be otherwise achieved by using the existing legal tools provided for inter alia. in the framework of the European Union Platform for the Prevention of Unregistered Work or, more broadly, in the 2014 Implementation Directive mentioned by the rapporteur. This proposal violates the subsidiarity principle because the proposed directive does not ensure that the objective of the intended action at European Union level is achieved in a better way than through action at national level. Therefore, the Law and Justice will vote in favour of the draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u363	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Marcin Święcicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Nearly 20 years ago, the European Parliament and the European Council adopted a directive aimed at protecting the rights of posted workers working in the territory of other countries. This Directive provides that in various cases workers who are posted will have some additional protection, for example. in certain sectors, in particular construction, that they will have, they must have guaranteed a minimum wage there, that they must also have certain other benefits guaranteed, e.g. working conditions, hygiene conditions, safety, health, protection for pregnant women working. In other words, in addition to all the provisions that apply to the company posting these workers, the rules of the country of posting will also be imposed on certain additional rules and guarantees of the country to which the worker has been posted. At the moment, the subject of our deliberations is the draft directive which amends that directive and essentially increases protection, as it is called, a posted worker in the place where it does the work. So not only the construction industry, but also all other industries, so not only the minimum wage, but in general the collective agreements and even the works agreements will apply, also much higher wages, such as they actually apply, so not only the selected labour laws protecting hygiene, safety at work, but all the provisions concerning holidays, wages, contributions and many other things. Finally, in the previous directive it was possible for some countries to introduce their own additional rules on posted workers, where they aligned their rights with the rights of local workers, but this was voluntary, and it was only in certain areas that they could introduce this. It will now be introduced by all countries in all areas. In total, ladies and gentlemen, this directive will make the Polish state the most affected country here, because we have the most posted workers in the European Union. We have over 400,000. posted workers - construction workers, carers, nurses, various others - so our participation here is the biggest. And this directive will cause, first of all, that the free movement of posted services will disappear properly, because not only will it be necessary to ensure identical conditions for posted workers there, but also to provide them with the same conditions that are already provided in Poland, so as if a double portion of these pay working conditions, secondly, companies will bear additional costs of posting, accommodation, transport, medical or legal care, food often, is also a problem of separation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, in one word, there will be a serious disruption of freedom of movement of services, freedom of competition, freedom of contracts. Finally, I wanted to say that entrepreneurs were asked in the West who feel threatened by competition from Poland for example, and trade unions were asked, which also feel threatened by competition from Poland, but did not ask consumers, customers of all these care services, construction services and others, whether Polish workers providing them with these services are well seen or not. In Poland there is uniformity in this matter...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u365	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u366	...and the government, and the employers, and the employees are against this directive. So that the Civic Platform will be opposed to this directive, that is, we will vote in favour of a draft resolution which opposes it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u367	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Truskolas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It should be stated that the resolution of the Sejm on the recognition of a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services is a valid resolution. The objectives of the draft directive are incompatible with the subsidiarity principle, which is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union. The project itself does not contain any justification for its compliance with the above principle. The amendments proposed in this Directive may raise questions of interpretation and design, because they are incomprehensible and incompatible with the correct legislative technique. They clearly lead to the restriction of freedom to provide services and the emergence of legal gaps. In addition, they are incompatible with European law and substantially restrict the competitiveness of posting companies. This directive aims at seemingly countering unfair practices and ensuring respect for workers' rights. The changes envisaged in the project will actually lead to a reduction in the scale of posting of workers, which will have a number of negative consequences on the labour markets. First of all, there will be a reduction in the competitiveness of Polish entrepreneurs and even their exclusion from European markets, which will naturally result in an increase in unemployment. There is particular doubt about the introduction of a regulation that, in the case of a posting of more than 24 months to a posted worker, the labour law of the host State should apply from the first day of posting, when it was known in advance that it would exceed 24 months and from the first day following the end of 24 months where it could not be foreseen that the posting would exceed 24 months. It is not justified to adopt such a position because none of the regulations of the European Union give rise to the adoption of a period of 24 months as a determinant to the conclusion that we are dealing with a country where work is normally provided. Delegating in the light of such regulations will no longer be simply cost-effective. The proposed directive also provides for a departure from the wording of the minimum wage rate for the purpose of payment. The new term is not specified and will be subject to any interpretation, given that under that term all components of remuneration required by national law, regulations or administrative provisions, collective agreements or arbitration decisions applicable under the Directive will have to be understood. This will result in a reduction in the cross-border provision of services using their own employees. The social partners representing employers who took part in the Commission's deliberations on European Union affairs also commented very negatively on this directive, stressing that the proposed proposal would increase the uncertainty of cross-border activities by introducing complex legal regulations. In addition, they pointed out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that it raises doubts in the light of the Treaty principle of freedom to provide services. Modern will support the draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u369	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Paul Beda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services does not comply with the subsidiarity principle referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Treaty on European Union. This proposal violates the subsidiarity principle because the proposed Directive does not ensure that the objectives of the intended action at Union level are achieved in a better way than those of national action. The stated objective of the draft directive is to address unfair practices and promote the principle that the same work at the same place should be remunerated. These objectives are to be achieved by requiring the worker to be covered by the labour law of the country to which he is posted, where the period of posting is longer than 24 months, by changing the remuneration of such workers from the minimum wage rate together with the overtime rate for remuneration together with the overtime rate and by establishing an equal remuneration for posted workers in the sub-contractors' chains and for the main contractor's employees by applying the working conditions applied by the main contractor. The application of the minimum wage currently in force in European Union law in a Member State of the European Union, within whose territory the worker is posted, allows for adequate social protection of workers, while at the same time taking into account the natural differences in the level of economic development between Member States which translate into differences in the level of remuneration. Further equalisation of the level of wages in the Member States should be the result of the gradual economic development of the Member States and not of the European Union's legislative action. The fact that the Directive can be amended by the adoption of a new directive does not mean that the solutions proposed as amendments to the existing Directive must be introduced at European Union level at all. The Commission has in no way justified that the objectives it proposes to amend the Directive cannot be better regulated at national level. The absence of such justification, in particular the absence of any qualitative and quantitative indicators, constitutes an infringement of Article. The 5 minutes, moreover, make it significantly more difficult if they do not make it impossible for national Parliaments to exercise their power to check respect for the principle of subsidiarity. In the current legal state, Member States may provide that undertakings posting temporary workers must guarantee them the conditions applicable to temporary workers in the Member State in which the work is carried out. According to the impact assessment, 15 Member States have benefited from this possibility. Others, including Poland, have not introduced any regulations in this respect. The existing European Union law allows Member States to align the rights of temporary workers posted to work in another Member State with those of temporary workers employed by temporary employment agencies established in the Member State in which the work is carried out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is no obstacle for Member States to adopt such legislation on the basis of an analysis of the labour market with regard to safeguarding the interests of businesses and workers. Where Member States consider that such provisions are necessary in order to ensure a level playing field for undertakings operating on their territory, they may introduce them. According to the data provided by the European Commission, more than half of the Member States have introduced such legislation. It should be considered that those countries which did not take such measures considered that they were not necessary to safeguard the interests of businesses and workers. It should be considered that Member States can better assess with effect than the European Commission whether the rights of posted temporary workers need to be aligned. There is no need for this issue to be regulated uniformly in all countries of the European Union. The Commission has not demonstrated that the Member States alone cannot sufficiently achieve the objective set out by it. Polish People's Party will support the proposed bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u371	Thank you very much. Five parliamentarians signed up for the questions. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing down the list of people who are written down for questions. I'm setting time for questioning -- two minutes. [[How much?]] There you go, two minutes. Mr Sławomir Nitras will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u372	Thank you, Marshal. As was rightly said here, Poland is the leader in sending posted workers in the European Union. Annually, Polish companies, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, are posting 270 000 to other countries of the European Union. employees. And these changes planned by the European Commission, changes in the rules of posting, will undoubtedly have a significant impact on the competitiveness of Polish companies. It is worth saying that this discussion about posted workers - I, as a former Member of the European Parliament, confirm that it is very alive - is mainly political. Posted workers today represent around 1% in the European Union labour force. Unfortunately, it has become such a very convenient topic that the populist factions are the focus of interest, and it is widely used by them during the discussion, and concerns the so-called. social dumping, unfair competition from cheaper companies from the European Union and Central and Eastern Europe. It is worth mentioning that this procedure, which we are using today as a Polish Parliament, concerning the examination of compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, is the principle introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon. And all of this, above all, to the politicians of the PiS who are calling for this principle today, I would like to remind you that, because many of you were opposed to this treaty. But what is important, I will remind you that this procedure actually in force when 1/3 of the parliaments, the countries of the European Union protests, is a rather weak instrument, because it forces the European Commission in this case only to re-examine the need for this type of regulation. We, on the other hand, have much stronger instruments governed by the Treaties, which the European Parliament and, above all, the European Council have. And my question is to the government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question: How, in the context of this situation which is currently in the European Parliament - I congratulate you on the majority of the parliamentary successes today in the European Parliament - how in this situation do you want to build a majority in the European Parliament to block these bad solutions for Poland, and how do you want to as a government at least a blocking minority, if not a majority, in the European Council? Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u373	Thank you. Please take the floor, to ask Mr Waldemar Buda a question. [[You've got to smack into your country like a folksdog.]] [[You have some kind of complex.]] [[No, you're the one with the complex.]] Members, please allow me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u374	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The draft directive clearly hits Polish employers and entrepreneurs to a large extent, as about 1/5 posted workers are workers. It's from Poland. There seems to be more than 270,000, up to 400,000. That's the estimate. And it is obvious that this is not a fight against unfair competition, only that is unfair competition against such countries and workers from countries like Poland, because if... And this is my question to the applicants: Do workers employed abroad, who are not posted, for example Poles in Germany, receive minimum, average wages or not? This is, of course, a rhetorical question, because it certainly is not. They get a salary close to the minimum. As far as the same workers are concerned, who would be posted and employed by Poles, then the minimum average wage would have to be guaranteed. So this is not the fight against unfair competition, it is the elimination of Polish companies from those markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u375	Please, Mr Nitras, on a formal matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u376	Thank you, Marshal. I'm sorry to take my attention to the High House, but Mr. Marshal was kind enough to draw attention. Me and Mr Zarembie. I humbly welcome the attention of the marshal, but I would like to point out that, from what I have heard, Mr Zaremba used the word 'folksdojcz' to me, which I find offensive. And from this point on, I ask the marshal to draw Mr Zaremba's attention to this issue, and at the same time I inform him that I will ask the ethics committee to draw Mr Zaremb's attention or to punish him. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u377	Thank you. And once again, I repeat my request to Members to stop their emotions. [[But I don't...]] Mr President, if such words have been said, they should not, of course, fall in the Parliament's Chamber. So much for my comment. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I only wanted to come with a slightly different question than Mr Nitras did, because I really agree that from the first days of his presence in the European Parliament, and I have worked in the first term of office in the Employment and Social Affairs Committee, I have seen from the outset the tendency of European parliamentarians representing the countries of the former European Union, the one before the big enlargement in 2004, to start restricting the possibility of the free movement of persons and services on the EU market, also by trying to review this directive on the posting of temporary workers as clearly beneficial for companies and workers from the new Member States, but as a consequence also beneficial for the economy of the European Union, because it results in lower prices for services provided by companies from such countries as Poland, Lithuania, Estonia, also in the public sector, especially in the construction sector, in the markets of Western European countries. And my question really was: How effective will the strategy of the Polish parliament be after the adoption of this resolution? I personally support the resolution. Do we already have a sufficient majority in parliaments or the number of national parliaments gathered to apply this yellow card procedure effectively? But to tell you the truth, it's an event that... And that is the question I am asking the Member representing the committee. However, I must say that those words which had been said earlier in this debate from Mr Zaremba's mouth, I understand, which Mr Nitras addressed with the wording "folksdojcz', are reprehensible. We agree on the resolution, we agree on the principle, we agree on the policy and we ask about the effectiveness, and consequently we hear [[♪ The bell ♪]] the disgraceful words that have been used here. I will absolutely bear witness with Mr Nitras in the Committee on the Ethics of Posel, because the word "folksdojcz" in the Polish language is associated as bad as possible and with the authors of such words should be eliminated. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Ajay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u379	Please take the floor of Mr Marcin Święcicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A little further developing this thread already raised here, namely what will be the effectiveness of our vote, our Parliament on this matter, I have a question, I do not know, to the rapporteur or perhaps to the representatives of the government on this matter, namely: What is the issue in other countries, in other parliaments? Are you, as if you were doing some kind of action or activity, or do you have a common approach to at least getting a third of Parliaments in this first stage so that this yellow card even exists? This is the first condition. But this, as we know, is not enough, because when it comes to the yellow card, the Commission can think about it, burying it a little bit, and yet the case will continue. It will therefore be necessary to have a blocking majority at the Council meeting. In this regard, are you already considering some strategy of Poland to stop this harmful activity for our economy, but also, I think, for the EU economy in general, for competition in the European Union, for economic development? These are my questions about this strategy. There is one more question about the consumer issue. Well, when I looked at these documents and this argument that is behind this directive in the European Union, I found there real support for trade unions and support for workers' organisations. On the other hand, it seems that nobody asked these recipients of services at all, users of these services about their opinion, whether they also wish that, as a result of such restrictions, these services would disappear, so that Polish nurses, Polish carers, Polish construction companies would stop performing their services there, because of course it would stop paying off. Whether the government has drawn attention to this argument, to this aspect of the case and whether it is also trying to play this argument in our letters, in our debates with the European Commission or with other countries, that above all services are for consumers, for consumers, that this aspect of the Commission [[♪ The bell ♪]] She neglected and didn't examine him, and should it be done?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u381	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Renata Szczech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u382	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I must admit, the questions asked weren't very precise. Indeed, the statements concerned the general support of the position. Analyze what you're saying, that's what they're really saying. I would like to correct the figures on the number of posted workers. This is around 1.9 million a year. Poland is the country from which these workers are posted the most. According to data for 2014... [[$230,000.]] 430,000, sir, not 230,000. [[More than that.]] This represents 22.3% the total number of all posted workers, so it is a large number. Employees are mostly posted from Poland to Germany, i.e. over 56%, to France - about 12% , to Belgium - approx. 10% , to Holland - about half of it. I may not be quoting all the percentages here, but maybe I'll give you a contrario. About 14.5 thousand were sent to Poland in 2014. employees and these workers were the most obviously from Germany, i.e. 37.3%, from France - less than 19% , from Spain - more than 12% and from Italy - 6.4%. These numbers are for 2014. Data for 2015 may be provided soon. I would like to point out that despite the small size of the workforce as a whole, the phenomenon of posting concerns a small percentage, less than 1% of the working population in the European Union... [[That was precise.]] ...delegation plays a very important role in cross-border provision of services. The possibility of providing services in other Member States is a huge opportunity to develop activities across Europe. This is a phenomenon that is extremely important. With a brief reference to the question raised by your Members, I would like to point out that you are currently preparing, because they have until 10 May, their views on the proposal to amend Directive 96/71/EC concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, but given the preliminary positions of the States, it can be considered that the required blocking majority, or 93 votes, can be reached. The questions concerned individual countries. Today we have information that such positions have been adopted e.g. already in three countries, i.e. in Romania by two chambers, in the Czech Republic by one, in Hungary also. This is the data for the moment. As I say, the deadline is until May 10th. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u383	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to speak? [[Yes.]] We're in a bit of a hurry. I'd like to ask you briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u384	Yes, yes, Mr. Marshal, but the questions were quite important. If you don't mind, a few sentences of explanation. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Unnecessary in this rather good, substantive discussion, which accompanied our debate, we involve those that, so to speak, hardcore political themes. Protocol No 2 provides for two paths of action for Poland. The first is, as has already been said here, a yellow card and the need to collect 1/3 of the votes allocated to national Parliaments so that the project may be re-examined in case of opposition. But there is also a second path that states that national parliaments or their chambers may also bring actions before the Court of Justice through the competent national authorities in respect of infringement of the principle of subsidiarity by a legislative act of the European Union. The Polish side may also use this path if there was no majority in favour of rejection. Of course, I hope that, first of all, the MEPs of the Civic Platform will take action in line with the expectations of this debate in the High House and will raise the right number of votes in support so that it is recognised that the proposed directive is in breach of the principle of subsidiarity. Thank you very much. [[Ha, ha, ha, that was actually an important voice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u385	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the committee's resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Economics and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Safety of Trade in Explosive Precursors (Prints No 398 and 415). I ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u386	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development from print No 415 on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act on Safety of Trade in Explosive Precursors, included in print No 398. First of all, I would like to remind you that precursors are chemical substances at high concentrations from which explosives may arise, and the provisions of this Act allow supervision of the marketing of these substances through a nationwide system of reporting or attempting to carry out suspicious transactions, through a national contact point, the identification of the tasks of the authorities and bodies competent in matters of control and sanctions for infringements of those provisions. This project is gaining importance if we consider that the precursors were used to build the explosives used in the recent bombings. I shall now proceed to the discussion of the committee's work. On 12 April 2016, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. The Senate resolution contains eight amendments. They concern in turn: Amendment 1 concerns the possibility of authorising the processing of personal data by officers subordinate to the Police Chief, 2nd and 3rd are of a precise and editorial nature in relation to the wording used in the project, 4) concerns the addition of the provision of the law in such a way that the customer within the meaning of the provision will also be a businessman acting personally, 5) concerns the possibility of transmitting data to police units by means of teletransmission of data, 6 concerns the deletion of an unnecessary part of the provision, 7 concerns the restoration of a code-based way of formulation of criminal sanctions and the last, 8) prejudices the regime of criminal liability of the addressees of that law. The Commissions: Administration and Home Affairs and Economy and Development after considering this resolution at its meeting on 12 April 2016 request the adoption of all eight amendments of the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u387	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I don't predict any questions at this point. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. I can't see the messenger. Then Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform. You're welcome. I'm asking you to keep your time, because we're a little late.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting the position of the club on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. It concerns the Senate resolution on the Safety Act on the trading of explosives precursors. The Act introduces provisions limiting the access of natural persons to selected high-risk chemicals at concentrations that may be used for the illicit manufacture of explosives. It lays down rules on the functioning of a nationwide system for reporting suspicious transactions or attempts to make such transactions, disappearances and thefts of significant quantities of substances listed in the Annexes to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Sejm adopted the Act at its meeting on 11 March 2016 and directed it to the Senate. The Senate Committee on National Economy and Innovation has requested the introduction of eight amendments to the Act, which the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs adopted unanimously. These amendments were proposed by the Legislative Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Two important amendments deserve attention. Amendment 1 proposed that the Chief of Police should be able to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u389	We have already heard the content of these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u390	But I'm talking about the important ones.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u391	Sure, yeah, we're in time. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u392	...so that the Chief of Police may authorise the heads and deputy directors of the Police Organizational Units and Organizational Cells of the Police Headquarters to grant and revoke authorisations on his behalf for the processing of personal data in the reporting system. The second major amendment, No 4, concerns the notification of a suspicious transaction or the attempt of an average user or economic operator to make a suspicious transaction. The notification system shall therefore collect the information necessary to identify them, including those necessary to identify the average user, the natural person referred to in Article. 3 of the Regulation or of a person acting on behalf of an economic operator. High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club voted in favour of the Safety Act on the trading of explosives precursors. This law is very important, especially at the moment. We have two important events ahead of us that require maximum security, i.e. NATO Summit and World Youth Days. Parliamentary Club Civic Platform stands for... [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u393	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u394	...with the adoption of a resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u395	Mrs Anna Maria Sierakowska... [[Siarkowska, thank you.]] ...Kukiz Club15. You're welcome. [[Siarkowska.]] I'm sorry, Siarkowska, of course. If we could not listen to the content of the amendments and resolutions again, it would be a little faster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hereby have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 on the Senate resolution on the Security Act on the trading of explosives precursors. First of all, I would like to remind you that the law, which is about to leave the walls of the Polish Parliament, will become part of the Polish system of law only because it is a requirement of the European Union. We adopt law not because of social pressure or demand in this area, not because of the social interest. The only reason why we are regulating the marketing of some of the substances that have been freely available so far on the civilian market is because of EU regulations, i.e. colloquially speaking, they will enter into force only because the Union has ordered them to do so. This is indeed an annoying reason for every citizen, for every Pole who would like to see his state sovereign. Why is the Union so keen to adopt these regulations? Because the Union was frightened by the terrorists that it had invited to its territory. At the same time, it should be noted that this regulation will not solve the problem. The assumption that terrorists will not have access to substances that they themselves are able to produce as a result of the adopted regulations is absurd. Most of these substances will produce themselves in home labs. The new restrictions will make access to everyday chemicals difficult only for ordinary citizens. This Regulation of the European Union and its implementing act impose significant restrictions on trade in chemical chemicals and reagents for Poles. The Act requires the control, registration of trade transactions concerning these reagents, the establishment of national control centres for transactions concerning these reagents. The Kukiz Club15 takes the view that security is important, but excessive regulation, introduced only because of fear and emotion, actually in the absence of solid substantive conditions, leads to the formation of a police state. This law limits access to such popular substances as acetone or hydrogen peroxide present in low concentrations in popular oxidised water. Maybe soon most reagents sold in shops, chemical companies will be subject to control, registration and sales difficulties? On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I also regret that the Senate's amendments to this law are basically down to cosmetics, and a deeper reflection on the introduced law was simply lacking in the higher House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u397	Thank you very much. Now, Mr Adam Cyranski from the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u398	Mr. Marshal, as instructed, it will be brief. High Izbo! Security Act on the marketing of explosives precursors following Senate amendments, print No 398. The Sejm has already passed the Safety Act on the trading of explosives precursors for the implementation of the provisions of Regulation No 98 of the European Union of 2013. The majority of Members, including Members of the Modern Club, voted in favour of the bill. The Senate has made several amendments to the bill which do not change the substance of the regulation, are of a order nature and remove doubts. Members of the modern club agree to the Senate's amendments and vote in favour of the Senate's amendments. Formally speaking, they will vote against the resolution to reject the Senate's amendments. The Senate has tabled eight amendments, all of which are useful and have already been presented in the Chamber, so there is no need to address them in detail. To sum up, on behalf of the Modern Club, we recommend that the Sejm adopt the Senate's amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u399	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski from the PSL club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u400	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! It has been my honour to present the position of the Polish People's Party on the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Senate resolution on the Act on Safety of Trade in Explosive Precursors. Already during the work in this House, there were doubts about the proposed provisions due to their readability and possible practical application. However, the government side was relentless. The Small Corrections Act has been passed. The legislative process was very fast. The Senate, leaning on this legal act, saw many shortcomings, and thus made amendments to the text, but the work of the senators turned out to be imprecise, about which in a moment. Amendment 1, which deals with the granting and withdrawal of authorisations for the processing of personal data in the system for reporting suspicious transactions, must be agreed with amendment No 1, but must already be clarified in the form of amendment No 2 on the pursuit of activities. This leakage of the record may raise significant doubts as to the substance of the record of the activity, i.e. the economic, but the legal gaps are not to be interpreted freely. I fear that it will have to be amended after the law has entered into force, and this undermines the quality of the law. Following Mr Marshal's voice, I would like to say that we do not raise any objections to the other amendments, they raise no doubts, and therefore I have nothing left to say but that the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party does not deny the need to regulate these issues, which it will express in the vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u401	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We shall proceed to the vote on this resolution of the Senate in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Conformity Assessment and Market Surveillance Systems (Prints No 399 and 416). I ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Economic Affairs has dealt with proposals for amendments to the bill introduced by the Senate. 15 amendments were tabled by the Senate to the contested bill. The amendments submitted concerned the provision of a law of consistency with the Construction Products Act, the Dangerous Goods Transport Act, the adaptation of the rules to the terminology used in the Polish legal system, the provision of terminology. The Senate amendments also concerned the compatibility of the law with EU law. Some of them are aimed at improving the clarity and precision of the terms, as well as establishing the necessary amendment of the date of entry into force of the law. All amendments were accepted, except Amendment 7. Amendment 7 concerns the new wording of Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, but it is an unnecessary repetition of the regulation already contained in Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u403	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I don't predict any questions here either. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Law on Conformity Assessment and Market Surveillance Systems. Legislative work on this law is ending. The Senate has tabled several minor drafting and order amendments, which the rapporteur has tabled here. As a club, we support these amendments and will vote in accordance with the opinion of the committee. Only in the case of Amendment 7 will we vote against it. In our view, the law protects consumers and will have a positive impact on environmental protection. It is also beneficial for entrepreneurs who, after the entry into force of these rules, which will be consistent with EU rules, will be able to better market their products to the European Union countries. The only controversy during the entire work on the Law was the cash penalties that are provided for here, but the law contains appropriate provisions that can adjust these penalties to the negligence of producers. So at the end of the day, I thank you all for the substantive work on the committee. Our position is that we have voted in favour of the law before, but for all the amendments that have been tabled in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we will vote in favour, except for Amendment 7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u405	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak. I don't see your MP. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club on printing no. 399, i.e. the Senate resolution on the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. In view of the particular circumstances to which the Marshal draws attention here, namely, not long time, I will allow myself to say briefly. I am in favour of voting as recommended by the committee, but bearing in mind that there is no discipline in our parliamentary club, as a club, we recommend our Members to vote in accordance with what the committee has proposed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u407	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, club PSL. [[Me too.]] No, I'm sorry, Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club. I tried to speed things up even faster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Modern Club recommends voting in accordance with the committee's recommendations, except, of course, Amendment 7, which has been negatively assessed as unnecessary. I would also like to thank everyone once again for working on this project, for very substantive work. In our view, this law is needed not only in substance when it comes to ensuring the safety of products at all. Of course, it is also needed because of the existing EU law, which obliges us to introduce this right on the Polish market. I would like to stress here at the same time that, in our assessment, the amount of penalties and their possible amount, we think, is too high as regards the offences that have been mentioned in this law. It is very possible that there will be a need for an amendment here, but for this moment the Modern Club will recommend voting in accordance with all the recommendations of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u409	Thank you very much. Now Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the PSL club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, as regards the Senate amendments to the Act on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems, will vote in accordance with the recommendation of the committee. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u411	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u412	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u413	Congratulations on your excellent speech. [[Voice from the hall: Record.]] [[He, he, he.]] Please, Mr. Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u414	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, the main aim of the law is primarily to adapt Polish regulations to the requirements of the European Union. The new law is necessary to ensure the consistency of the Polish rules on conformity assessment systems with the European system set out in the so-called. a new legal framework. The amendments proposed by the Senate do not change the essential objectives of this law. The 15 amendments proposed by the House are more precise and adapt the chosen provisions to the terminology used in the Polish legal system. The proposed amendments aim, inter alia, at: ensure consistency with the Construction Products Act, with the Dangerous Goods Transport Act and, most importantly, with EU legislation. In addition, the amendments contain provisions providing for the amendment of the date of entry into force of the Act of 7 days from its publication on 20 April 2016, which will avoid...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u415	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u416	...collision with the bill of the day...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u417	It was supposed to be a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u418	... 18 March on the amendment of the Act on Explosives for Civil Use. One of the amendments, the amendment...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u419	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u420	...No 7 on ensuring consistency with the Rail Transport Act did not receive the approval of the Sejm Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, but in view of the arguments put forward, the club...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u421	Mr President, we agreed for a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u422	... The Platforms consider it appropriate to adopt the amendments proposed by the Senate, with the exception of Amendment 7. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u423	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and certain other laws (Prints Nos 400 and 417). I ask Mr Mark Owl to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, during the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, we took note of the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use. There are 11 amendments. Mostly they are small, editorial, ordering certain issues. One amendment was negative - amendment 10 - because the Senate proposal is incompatible with the provisions of the Law on the system of conformity assessment and market surveillance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u425	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I don't predict any questions here either. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Antoni Duda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the floor. Are you an MP? There it is. Please be brief, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and certain other laws. The purpose of this law is to implement in the national legal order the directive on explosives intended for civil use and two Directives on pyrotechnic materials. Implementation of the above mentioned provisions In particular, the directives require the amendment of the Act of 21 June 2002 on explosives intended for civil use and it is also necessary to amend four other laws. By amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use in connection with the implementation of the Directives, amendments were also introduced to remove the ambiguities in the existing legislation governing the issue, identified in the course of their practical application by public administrations and economic operators...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u427	Mr President, specifically. For or against.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u428	...in connection with the acquisition, storage and use of explosives.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u429	Conclude.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u430	The Sejm passed this bill on 18 March this year. The Senate held its meeting on 7 April this year. he considered the bill and proposed 11 amendments. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, in line with the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, will support amendments 1.-9 and 11 proposed by the Senate in print. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u431	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 11 amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and some other acts. The Civic Platform is in favour of rejecting Amendment 10 and will support the other amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u433	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not speak as quickly as my previous speaker, but I will try to shorten my speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u435	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u436	The aim of the Act was to organise, clarify, clarify and supplement the regulations specifying inter alia. obligations of manufacturers, importers, distributors of pyrotechnic articles and explosives, etc. After passing the legislative path in the Sejm, the bill went to the Senate. The Senate has proposed 11 amendments. These amendments were sent to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. They are really clear, orderly and formal. It is difficult to disagree with these amendments as they eliminate obvious shortcomings. The Commission proposes that 10 of the 11 amendments proposed by the Senate be adopted. Here, unfortunately, I must give a different opinion than all my predecessors. Unfortunately, despite the accuracy of the amendments tabled by the Senate, the Act still has not changed its essential character. This could not be the case, for none, even the best, of the amendments will improve the poor and completely unnecessary projects. Nothing can make a project that is merely a legislative piece of EU bureaucracy, which is completely unnecessary and even to the detriment of our legal system trying to implement itself on the ground of home legislation, a value regulation. And this is the law, which in fact does not improve anything in terms of the circulation of explosives, and even if it improves, to a trace degree, but is merely a product of calming the conscience of its creators in terms of doing something to calm the public down the upset consequences of previous stupid decisions of the same Eurocrats. In fact, the objectives to be achieved by this law will be to further develop red tape and new obligations for entrepreneurs and to intervene the state into further elements of socio-economic life. And we can't let that happen. That is why we will support the amendments, of course, because they improve this law. On the other hand, in relation to the whole, we are fundamentally opposed and will continue to remain negative towards this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u437	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I present our position on the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and some other laws. On 18 March 2016, the Sejm adopted a law amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use. The aim of the amendment was to implement the provisions of the three European Union directives from 2013 to 2014 in order to increase safety in the design, manufacture, use and transport of explosives. The Senate has introduced 11 amendments to the Act in order to organize, standardize, supplement the provisions of the Act. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after considering the Senate resolution at its meeting on 13 April 2016, proposed that the Sejm adopt amendments from 1 to 9 and 11 and reject amendment 10. On behalf of the Modern Club, I agree with the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, because the Senate amendments do not really interfere with the merits of the case, but improve the passed law in terms of legislative level. In part, the Senate's position on Amendment 10 can also be divided, which deletes the provisions imposing an obligation on an explosive distributor to act with due care with regard to the requirements of the Act. The Senate proposed to delete this provision not to exempt the distributor from the requirement to act with due care, but because such a requirement was not laid down in the law by the manufacturer or importer, which might suggest that the exemption from due diligence... Since that was not the purpose of the bill, the Senate considers that the contested provision concerning the distributor is unnecessary. Logically, the Senate is right, but Directive 2014/28/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 contains such an obligation relating specifically to the distributor, which justifies leaving it, as it were, to the bill and rejecting the Senate amendment. Finally, on behalf of the Modern Club, I ask the High Sejm to adopt the committee's position on the Senate amendments, i.e. to accept amendments 1 to 9 and 11 and reject Amendment 10. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u439	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u440	I understand, Marshal, that my time is not over yet. Respecting these guidelines of your marshal and nervousness, as you can see, I would like to say, by speaking on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, that we will vote in accordance with the recommendation of the committee, so we accept almost all the amendments, we reject one. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u441	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 mins 03 hours 19 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. The project is print number 409. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is print number 413. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. High Seym... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism (print No 409). Ladies and gentlemen, please rise from your places. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the text of the draft resolution. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. On the 1050th anniversary of the adoption of Christianity on our lands, we express our gratitude to the creators of statehood and to all the generations of Poles who faithfully followed the principles of determining our identity. Duchess Dobrawa, who was baptized in 966, incorporated us into the civilization circle of Western Europe, which was soon confirmed at the Congress of Gniezno in 1000 years. The Latin Community of Europe thanks to Poland expanded its scope when it came from Hungary. Jadwiga, the queen, took Władysław Jagiełł's husband, the first of the great dynasty in which the Republic of both Nations, the state of tolerance and many cultures were founded, which constituted a systemic phenomenon on the scale of the then world. Christianity has brought us a set of values, a canon of spiritual and material culture. Under its signs we defended the European heritage in 1683 - the year of Victoria Vienna, and in 1920 - the year of the victorious Battle of Warsaw. In the long history of glory, but also the fall of the Republic of Poland, the nation of Poland continued thanks to the strength of the spirit, thanks to the example of martyrs, from St. Bishop Wojciech to the Blessed One. Father George Popieluszko. The expression of this duration was the Millennium Victory of 1966, preceded by the Jasna Góra Weddings of the Nation and the Great Novena Fr. Card. Stefan Wyszynski, Primate of the Millennium. The great historical breakthrough of modern time, which was the emergence of the 'Solidarity' movement, would not have been possible without the spiritual inspiration brought to Poland by Saint Pope John Paul II. His choice for Peter's capital and his first visit to Homeland allowed the nation to feel like a community. It was under Christian signs and symbols, such as the Cross and the revered image of Our Lady of Czestochowa, that a great transformation of the enslaved nation took place, which allowed to regain the desired freedom and rebuild the independent state. Members and Senators of the Republic of Poland at the National Assembly call for the celebration of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism: let this source, from which they drew generations, remain present in our time and in the future. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland 'Monitor Polski'. I ask you to adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Law on Forests. The additional committee report shall be in print No 411-A. We proceed to the third reading. And I will ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A proposal for rejection and three amendments were tabled at second reading. At yesterday's meeting, I apologise, today, for the committee's strong majority opinion on all the amendments tabled and the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u443	There you go. The Commission presents minority proposals, as well as, in an additional report, a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and an amendment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission, as we have heard, calls for this proposal to be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The questions were raised by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club. I can't see, I can't hear. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] I can see that. There you go. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the government a question, in fact, because the project is a government project. It is a project that deprives Poles in the next stage of their ownership, this time from the ownership of forests, private forests. My question is, why do you need this forest? Don't you have enough trouble with the already existing state forest and the forest? This causes de facto expropriation from the private forests of our citizens, and it is at a price determined de facto by the fortress. And it's going to be a market price, the market is gone, so it's going to be a low price from which the seller can't back out, and he can't trade or sell his property or swap it with his neighbor. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are we to expect the next step and the nationalisation of the next spheres of life, because only the state or national is right for today's government? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u445	Thank you, Member. Will the Minister of Environment respond? Yes, Deputy Minister of Environment Mr Andrzej Necessary will answer two questions. [[What do you need this forest for?]] Why do we need this forest, it's a rhetorical question, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But the second question was more concrete. [[The Polish People's Republic is back, you miss the Polish People's Republic.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This law contains optional provisions. These aren't regulations that will somehow force us to expropriate ourselves. This is the execution of a specific will of the seller's party. Why do you need it? We've got a national forest-enhancing program, and we see that the State Forests have run out of forestation opportunities, so right now... [[It's time to take the private.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...to reach the rate of 30% forestists will acquire private land. Thank you. [[That was the answer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u447	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 202 Members voted against - 228, 12 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose an amendment to the calculation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 176 Members voted against - 271, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the second minority proposal to Article. Article 37a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 applicants propose changes of an editorial and legislative nature. The question is asked by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u448	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This law does not resolve matters to the end and a very large part of the discussion in the committee also concerned how much the right of pre-emption would apply to private property if the forest constituted a small part of the property to be dealt with. The proposal that we are now going to vote on is intended to dispel any doubts and says that the right of first purchase will apply only to real estate which will be entirely wooded, which will be entirely, I'm sorry, assigned to the forest area. We want to dispel the doubts about the properties in which the forest is a small part, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] and the main part may be the household. It's often the case that these properties connect together. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To resolve your doubts that you really don't like private property, I suggest you vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u449	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 213 Members voted against - 231, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the first amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. Article 2 37a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 75 Members voted against - 370, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. Article 3 37a and Article 37a 37b-37k. The adoption of this proposal will result in the nullity of the 4th minority proposal and the 2nd amendment as well as amendment 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 214 voted against - 232 Members, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority proposal and the 2nd amendment to Article. Article 37a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 applicants shall propose that the parties referred to in Article. Article 37a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1, have the right to withdraw from the intent to sell if they do not reach a financial consensus. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. And here we have the Members of the House of Questions who have been asked. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u450	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but you see, four months we've only been debating under the rule of my country of Law and Justice, and I've already hoarse. And now what happens when it happens... [[Voices from the room: Into the microphone!]] ...which will be in six months until fear to think with me. But I'd like to make a very important point. This is a very important conclusion and it seems to me that I will risk saying that the entire Sejm of our country should sanction private property when it comes to the fact that they cannot deal financially. There is a situation where the Agency does not agree to an appropriate price. It is therefore concluded that [[♪ The bell ♪]] The seller, regardless of the form of ownership, could have withdrawn from this transaction, could have retained this property. This is very important. Let's not vote in a zero-one system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u451	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u452	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It seems that this is indeed the case, so the question here to the applicants, should we not consider whether this provision does not restrict property rights very much. It's not just about two sides getting along anymore. It is also the case that the court may indicate a price and, unfortunately, the seller, who is not satisfied with this price, has no right to withdraw from this transaction. This seems to be a very strong restriction on ownership. I therefore also support the voice of my previous speaker and urge you to accept this amendment so that such a person can withdraw from the transaction at any time if the price which has been determined either by the agency or by judicial expertise is unsatisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u453	There you go. It is the Member who has already made an appeal. I thought you were an MP with a question. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] In that case, if there was no question, we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority proposal and the 2nd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 220 voted against - 222 and 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the proposals. In the third amendment to the article. 37c applicants propose an editorial and legislative change. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 212 Members voted against - 229, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. 4 the draft law amending the applicant proposes to amend the date of its entry into force. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Modern Club... excuse me, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Looking at the date of entry into force of the Act, in 17 days, it is felt that the President of the Republic of Poland has appointed the ruling party, which day and at which time, hopefully not at night, the act is to sign. What's the rush? Simple question: Why? The case does not serve, and certainly the perception of the law, because it has the impression, it increases such an impression after the law on agricultural land, that the state consistently restricts property rights. Maybe it serves to conceal inconsistencies. This law does not give forums to churches and religious unions, as does the law on the suspension of the sale of real estate from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. There, the possibility of free circulation of land, here subject to government pre-emption, and according to the rapporteur, there is a complete analogy of the situation and threats to agricultural and forestry land. So does the ruling party intend to remove [[♪ The bell ♪]] That inconsistencies in the Senate? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u455	Thank you. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The vote was 178 against - 230, 36 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. And here are the reports of two Members. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u456	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Law on the amendment of the Law on Forests is another after the amendment of the Act on the Agricultural System by interference with the right of ownership enshrined in the article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3 of the Constitution. It limits the freedom to trade in real estate. The law is imprecise and underdeveloped, goes far too far in the limitations of ownership and gives unlimited competence to the State Forests, and I know that instead of adding, the State Forests have been cutting off the Białowieża Forest. And now I ask the question: Is it true that the seller of the forest land cannot depart from the sale when the State Forests force the court to reduce the price of the land? Is this your justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's stealing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u457	There you go. Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u458	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I'm glad you've admitted what the real purpose of this bill is. The real purpose of this law is to forest all - perhaps all - private land, which is owned by citizens in Poland. Moreover, not only the land on which the forest is located, but also the land on which the forest can be found, land which, for example, is located. bordering the state forest. The worst thing about this whole law is that it is not the market that will decide at what price the Treasury will be forced to buy the parcels, private parcels of our citizens, e.g. The land under the forest, but this market that's been wiped out, which is forebearable. I have a question for you because I don't think there's anything more to say here. Minister, quo vadis? North Korea? What's next? Nationalisation of other sectors of the economy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u459	There you go. The Minister of Environment, Mr Jan Szyszko, asks for the floor. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[It's all over the woods. How's Bialowieza?]] [[What's up on the roof at the Ministry?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u460	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I think there's a lot of misunderstandings about this bill. [[The biggest misunderstanding is you.]] But I would like to say that it is coming on 1 May 2016 and in the accession treaty is the provision that the free circulation of forest and agricultural land in the EU's disposal arrangement will take place from that date. While agricultural land has been secured, forest land is relatively vulnerable in this situation. And now I also want to tell you that in a way we are returning to the times of the Second Republic. [[PRL, PRL.]] Then, after regaining independence, the foundations of the functioning of the Polish State Forests were created. These State Forests were formed from the forests that belonged to the property of the three conquerors, and then on these foundations three principles were created, in fact, by the President's decrees. The first is that the State Forests are to be accessible to the population in terms of use, let's call it recreational, collection of forest fruits, etc. The second thing is that they are supposed to use the general plan, i.e. to produce good, but at the same time the plan assumed that the goods to be consumed should be more at the end of the plan than at the beginning, i.e. the typical approach which is now called sustainable development in the European Union. And third, they're supposed to be self-financing. As for the third rule, I must say it was not followed. Why is that? Because this poor country in the interwar period bought 800,000 from private owners. ha in favour of the State Treasury, and for this reason, so that these forests are not cut out, [[Applause]] Don't let those woods get into foreign hands. Right now, this bill we're proposing here, we're proposing the same thing. In this free circulation arrangement, where market prices apply, the State Forests have the right of pre-emption. So there's no discrimination, there's only one thing. [[Collectiveization, very nice, Gomulka.]] [[Collectiveisation.]] As long as the State Forests have money and they need it, they have the right to buy it first. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a similar situation as in the Second Republic. I would also like to say that Law and Justice see a huge difference between state forests and private forests. There was a matter of privacy raised here. Yes, private forests are the forests of the owner to whom they are... He has no obligation to provide services to other citizens. These are his private forests and he has the right to decide his own property. In contrast, national forests are meant to serve the public. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] To move on to the last case, to the Białowieża Forest, I would like to tell you at the same time that today we have filed a request to the prosecutor's office for suspicion of a crime... [[We sent the corks to the woods.]] ...in relation to forests in 2008 and 2015... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...including the Bialowieza Forest. And it is said that the current minister or government wants to cut out the Bialowieza Forest. I'd like to tell you that the Bialowieza Forest trees weren't cut out... [[Yet.]] ...then it froze... [[It froze up.]] ...a few million trees with a mass of almost 4 million m3 - they were not cut down, they fell - and it is wood worth more than 700 million PLN. But at the same time, this is in line with the disappearance of priority habitats for the European Union, and therefore species, and we are threatened by processes with the European Commission. Therefore, we had to file such a report to the D.A.'s office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u461	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in the burden of printing No 411, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. There were 233 votes against - 210 and five Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the Forest Act. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government's draft law on amending the Law on Public Blood Service and some other laws. The additional committee report is in print No 379-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Kopcinska to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three amendments were tabled during the project process. The Health Committee recommends rejecting Amendment 1 and adopting Amendments 2 and 3. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u463	There you go. [[Game in the O.R.]] The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 379. The Commission, in its additional report, presents the amendments that we will be voting on first. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the Act on Public Blood Service. In the first amendment to Article. 6 The laws of the applicant propose a different wording of paragraph. 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Małgorzata Zwierzan, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u464	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The proposed amendment aims to change the basis which entitles you to give a badge along with the legitimacy of a well-deserved honorary blood donor. Isn't it right for the organizational unit of the public blood service to issue a certificate directly to the donor certifying that the appropriate volume of blood has been given, authorising it to receive an honorary title? After obtaining the certificate, the donor would go to the Polish Red Cross for a proper badge and ID only if his will exists. I have this question because in the Committee on Health and the Minister for Health, and all Members were in favour of this amendment. There were some minor deficiencies in the explanatory memorandum. I ask the High House to vote in favour of the amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u465	Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 69 voted against - 377, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 21 The applicant's laws propose changes to the editorial and legislative framework. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The consequences of its adoption will be the corresponding changes contained in the report. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 2nd amendment, with the consequence, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The vote was 444, against - 3, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 23 The applicant's laws propose legislative and editorial amendments. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. All in favor. The amendment was adopted unanimously. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 379, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The vote was 444, against - 3, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws. High Seym! A moment of special attention, please. I have a special announcement to make. It was formulated after the Senior Convention, which took place during the session break. By the end of the vote, I inform you that we will continue our deliberations tomorrow at noon. 9. [[Why?]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Because we need to consider the Senate's amendments to the law on stopping the sale of real estate to the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. The Senate is still working on it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] We are returning to the review of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Freedom of Business Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 381-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Sasino to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two amendments were tabled during the second reading of the Act. These amendments were examined at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance today. The Committee on Public Finance calls for these amendments to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u467	There you go. The Commission calls for the adoption of Draft Print Act 381 and sets out in an additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. Article 22 (2) (b) 1 point 2 of the Law on the Freedom of Business, the applicants propose, inter alia, that payments relating to the economic activity carried out be made or accepted through the trader's payment account whenever the one-off value of the transaction exceeds the equivalent of 15 thousand. zł. Amendment 2 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Jerzy Kozłowski, the Kukiz Club15, asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Lowering the limit on cash transactions to 15 000 zł, dear applicants, is not targeted at criminals, but is aimed at small Polish companies, to which you will dramatically increase the cost of banking services. These small Polish companies have problems with paying even ZUS, the amount of which is significantly higher in Poland than in competitors of our small companies in the UK. And instead of taking care of the interests of small businesses, you generate unnecessary costs. Did you guys ever do any research on small entrepreneurs? Did you consult with these little companies? Definitely not. I will tell you one more thing, to whom this record favors: it favors the banks. You're lobbying for banks, whether you like it or not. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Your gap in the Bank Tax Act in Art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 also gives banks a way to deliver money, and that's a similar solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u469	There you go. We're coming... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: To answer.]] Mr. Member, Minister, at the moment, yes, Wiesław Janczyk, go ahead. Are you an MP? [[Whatever.]] Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u470	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Any treatment to seal the tax system may give rise to certain concerns. This law, which is very important and widely discussed, also within the Committee on Public Finances, in this Sejm, raised these concerns. I would like to mention just one thing, namely the last report of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the scale of fictitious invoices in economic trade in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2013 these invoices, which were measured, diagnosed by the tax offices, were issued for PLN 19.7 billion - according to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, whose president is Mr Kwiatkowski. But 2 years later, i.e. in the last year, 2015, which was examined, fictitious business invoices were issued for an amount drastically higher, i.e. 81.9 billion PLN. This regulation is caused by an attempt to seal and document a confirmation of payments on the economic market, not to create fiction in the economic trade. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u471	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. There were 228 votes against - 209 and 7 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Members have come forward. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u472	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! And since when is it economic freedom that you keep limiting it? And where are the pre-election promises about entrepreneurship rather than constantly and notoriously screwing up our lives? Since when is money safe in banks? After all, cash turnovers are as recorded as transfers. Where do you see this problem, what are you defending yourselves from? 100 billion zlotys are moving out in front of you. You don't do anything about it, but the smallest ones down there have to be crushed. [[Applause]] It's a job. I know that Law and Justice are having trouble with freedom, but that's what we're supposed to be focusing on, not constantly worrying about. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u473	Please. Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u474	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! To date, we have not received information from the Minister of Finance, how much the proposed act seals the system. How much money will you save for the state budget? A little elementary knowledge. 42% Polish entrepreneurs from the micro and small business sector prefer cash as a form of payment. 18% entrepreneurs do not use electronic banking at all. You've created a surveillance bill that allows you to peek into people's private messages. Now you're forcing citizens, entrepreneurs to use electronic banking to monitor business-to-business flows. I have a question for the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the rapporteur: Why do you need this knowledge? Why do you not trust Polish citizens so much? Why do you not trust Polish entrepreneurs so much? Don't go that way, it's socialism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u475	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u476	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is another law that clearly shows that Law and Justice simply does not like successful people. He doesn't like people who work hard for their own money and state money, systematically adding day by day to our GDP and to the budget of our country. We explained to you at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance that it would be no good if you wanted to actually pursue large tax criminals if you wanted to fight large corporations that do not pay taxes in Poland - what you said to your voters in the election campaign - there are other ways to do so, and not roads that will make everyday life difficult for small and medium-sized Polish entrepreneurs. These changes will make life difficult for the smallest Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u477	Please. Mr Andrzej Jaworski, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We talk to entrepreneurs, we talk to Polish entrepreneurs who are not afraid to pay for their invoices by electronic transfers. Today, if the entrepreneur has cash, he keeps it in his account. If he's in legitimate business, he doesn't care if he goes to the bank, withdraws the money and pays in cash or makes the transfer. [[First, convince the president.]] [[Let the CEO set up an account.]] This friendly party in Spain a few years ago introduced even lower amounts to limit the grey zone and it turned out that it worked. [[Let the president set an example.]] Because only those who have left business today, only those in different ways - invoices, which are very often forged, very often bought for so-called. Left market - they do various kinds of accounting operations. [[The Member knows.]] And don't tell me today that Polish entrepreneurs don't have an account, [[♪ The bell ♪]] they can't use this account and they can't understand that competition with illegal trading is better for them than what you're proposing. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Please don't attack your leader.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u479	Thank you. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jacek Sasin, asks for the floor. [[Corrigendum.]] Mr President, would you be kind enough to leave the podium? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Of course, yeah, I'm just...]] You're welcome. Mr President, I will not allow you to speak because you have not spoken at this point. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In response to these questions that have been raised, I would like to inform the High House that the Government of Law and Justice, the parliamentary majority, will aim to seal the tax system not only for small businesses but also for those large corporations that you have so requested. I would like to inform the High House that today was the first reading of a government bill introducing a tax avoidance clause. So we're dealing with this case, too. On the other hand, I would also like to respond to Mr Jakub. [[Yes?]] The need to pay taxes does not mean a restriction on economic freedom. [[Exactly.]] You just have to pay taxes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u481	Thank you. [[In corrigendum mode.]] Mr Jakubiak, as corrected. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u482	Mr President, we are talking here about transfers and cash payments, not taxes. [[And that's what it's for.]] No, no, take it easy. I'm not talking about the fact that entrepreneurs don't use bank accounts. You think we're illiterate? You're just restricting our ability to pay in cash. Speaking of the Minister who performed here. Since the Law and Justice are so pleased with the Spanish system, I would like to say that economic activity in the form of any form of activity has a tax-free amount of EUR 17 350. Please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u483	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 381, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. There were 228 votes against and 210 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Freedom of Business Act. We would like to refer to item 17 on the agenda: Report from the European Commission on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print 410. Nobody asks questions. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House... Oh, I'm sorry. [[Voices from the room: Raphael!]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are very pleased that, from time to time, Law and Justice take on courage with the rest of the House and decide to follow the voice of reason rather than the voice of stupid European directives. [[Applause]] I hope that this courage will support you more often, you will be more courageous and you will put yourself in the interest of Poland rather than following the voice of the European Union, even if common sense says otherwise. Unfortunately, the Labour Code we discussed today shows that there is no such reflection. That's why I'm appealing, and I'm asking you to... [[Can I ask you a question?]] ...to make more sense and interest in Poland, rather than mindless adoption of European Union directives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u485	As I understand it, hope is contained in the question. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u486	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I did not originally plan to ask, but Mr Wójcikowski's speech provoked me to him and I would like to refer him to the rapporteur. This is the question whether it is true that the European Union directive, which the European Commission intends to amend, is beneficial for Polish entrepreneurs, and we are protesting not against the directive, but against the attempt to change it, which is intended to lead to worse access, hinder access for Polish entrepreneurs and Polish workers to the market of services... [[Yes.]] ...in the European Union? So that, Mr Wójcikowski, really, please read carefully, with understanding, and we will be better able to work in this House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u487	The rapporteur of the committee is Mr Jan Mosiński, and the representative of the government is Minister Marcin Zielenecki of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. No one's answering. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 410, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The vote was 443 against - 1 and 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the recognition of a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Economics and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Safety of Trade in Explosive Precursors. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In Amendment 1. to Article. 5 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 5. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. The vote was 6 against - 439, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 point (1) (a) b The Senate proposes that in the nationwide reporting system of suspicious transactions collect data on the place of establishment or premises. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. 19 Members voted against - 425, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 point (1) (a) c The Senate proposes an editorial change. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. Two Members voted against - 442, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 7 The Senate proposes amendments to the calculation. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. Two Members voted against - 442, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 8 The Senate proposes, among other things, that information collected in the system of reporting suspicious transactions be transmitted to police units by teletransmission of data without having to make a written request. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. 37 Members voted against - 404, and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. The 10th Senate in the introduction to the calculation proposes to delete the words 'to the news'. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 The Senate proposes a legislative amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. Two Members voted against - 447, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th Amendment, the Senate proposes in the following article to rule on the actions referred to in Article. The law followed the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1. to Article. 1 The Senate proposes a different wording of paragraph. 3. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first and second amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 3. to Article. Point 21 of the Senate proposes an editorial amendment. Amendments 4 and 10 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 3rd, 4th and 10th amendments would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 5. to Article. Point 12 (5) of the Senate proposes that the Minister in charge of the government administration responsible for the subject matter of conformity assessment define, by means of a regulation, the elements of the declaration of conformity. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 6. The Senate proposes that Chapter 3 should be given title to the obligations of economic operators and private importers. Amendment 8 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th and 8th amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. One Member voted against - 446, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 7. to Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes that the notifications of authorised conformity assessment bodies be made by the competent minister or by the head of the central office competent for the purpose of conformity assessment, hereinafter referred to as the competent minister. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. 444 Members voted against - 5, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 9. to Article. 63 The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. 7 Members voted against - 437, no one abstained. The Sejm's amendment rejected... Sorry, I got it. It's about the 9th Amendment. In Amendment 11. to Article. 36a, Art. 36c and Art. 36i of the Construction Products Act, the word "senat" proposes to replace it with the word "or "senat." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. One Member voted in favour, 446 voted against, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 12. The Senate proposes inter alia. other wording of point 1 of Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2. Amendments 13 have been combined with this amendment. au 15. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Those of you and your fellow Members who are against the amendments from 12 to 15 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and some other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. All amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on Explosives for Civil Use. In the first amendment to Article. Point 1 (4) and the title of Chapter 5a of the Senate propose to delete the words or the words made available on the market. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. No one voted in favour, against 447 and 1 member abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2 (2) 5 and Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. Three Members voted against - 442, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 2b (2) (b) 2 The Senate proposes to amend the reference in this provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. Three Members voted against - 442, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes to align the terminology of the amending act with the law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 1 The Senate proposes to add a definition of market surveillance authorities in a new point and to delete paragraph 1. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 9 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 3a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 15, 24, 28 and 37 The Senate proposes the addition of the terms and classification codes. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 6 of the Senate proposes a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. 1 Member voted in favour, against -444, 1 Member abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 62v paragraph. Point 1 (7) of the Senate proposes that words which are easily understood by end-users and market surveillance authorities should be replaced by "Polish." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. Two Members voted against - 445, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th Amendment to the mouth. Article 1 62y and Art. 62zg The Senate proposes that the words be deleted: it acts with due care with regard to the requirements of the Act and. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. 434, against - 14, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 63a-63c The Senate proposes editorial and legislative changes. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on the creation of the Medical University of them. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz (print No 226) - continuation. In the discussion, a request was made to refer the draft law to the Health Committee in addition. The proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer this draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral of this draft law to the vote. Do I hear or don't I hear? I can't hear you objecting. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the additional referral of the draft law, contained in print No 226, to the Health Committee, would like to raise his hand and press the button. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. Two Members abstained in favour of 424 votes against - 20. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I state that the Sejm has accepted the proposal and has therefore extended this draft law to the Health Committee for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 23. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty Act (Print No 303) - follow-up. In the discussion, a request was made to refer the draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in addition. Proposal delivered by the Bureau of the Sejm [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It is for the Sejm to refer this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral of this draft law to the vote. I can't hear you objecting. We'll proceed to the vote... [[Mr. Marshal, there are questions.]] With a question? Yes. Before the vote, Members of the House had asked questions. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u488	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the Member of the applicant. We have a bill that concerns a group of entrepreneurs. In the course of the presentation of this project, the group was not mentioned. From the information we have, it appears that these are companies which may mediate the trade in tobacco drought. There are 250 companies that operate on the Polish market, this is such a scale. Question: "Do all 250 need such support as a reduction in the obligation to pay bail to the customs office?" So let's say it's going to be a dozen entities. The question then is whether we should have a law to facilitate the operation of such a small group of entrepreneurs, especially since the information we also have indicates that last year there was a control in these companies and the loss of the State Treasury is in the order of eight hundred and tens of millions of zlotys. Therefore, the question is: Should we really move towards further facilitation of operation [[♪ The bell ♪]] Those entrepreneurs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u489	Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15, asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law means not only helping entrepreneurs, but above all helping hundreds of thousands of farmers and their families. [[Applause]] In Poland, two foreign companies dominate, which turn tobacco droughts. The additional companies, thanks to the fact that we take out the excise deposit from these companies, will allow for competition. This will give farmers a much higher price for tobacco droughts. It's not just a matter of dozens or several hundred companies, it's a matter of thousands of farmers and their families. And here is the question to the Member of the applicant: Is it appropriate to refer this law also to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u491	This is a question for the Member acting on behalf of the applicants. This is Mr Jarosław Sachajko. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, my friend at the club just answered my question. If we do not implement this law, then as far as these entities are concerned - you were talking about 250, there were actually so many of them a year ago, at the moment there are about 50 - it will be so that there will be two large foreign entities and there will be no competition. There'll only be two corporate companies left. Please contact those small and medium-sized companies to whom this bill meets. Please contact the farmers, the tobacco growers who were co-authors of this bill. I didn't write it, I mean. I wrote it with farmers, with representatives of small and medium-sized companies. They came and asked for this bill. Agriculture has its characteristics and this specificity in the Sejm is represented by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I believe that the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development should bow to this law and present the farmer's side, not only to large corporations, but also to the farmer. I ask you kindly to support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u493	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of additional referral to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the draft law No 303 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The vote was 421 against - 2 and 21 abstentions. The Sejm decided to add this draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 413). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? [[No.]] No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 413 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 423 against - 6, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 13 April. I'm announcing a four-minute break right now. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 38 hrs. 20 min 45]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one is reporting, so I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Please, Mr Szymon Giżyński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! One of the most important political processes taking place in Poland today is the rivalry of the Civic and Modern Platform within the same electorate. These stocks are at stake in the position of hegemone of the entire left-liberal formation in the country. But because of the nature of this duel, its specificity, importance and spectacularness for observers and commentators, it is important first of all, who will lose it, who will fall in it, who will be told, using Wisława Szymborska's metaphor, that: it is nothing more than the thigh of a dead frog, moved by electricity. Ryszard Petru or Grzegorz Schetyna may perform in this role, because the personalization of modern clashes and the Civic Platform means emulation - using the term Manuela Gretkowska - two narcissists: germinating and depressing. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u495	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you of the phenomenon of sponsored protests regarding the amendment of the law on the construction of wind farms in our country. Today, the Law and Justice Government is carrying out a widely understood action of good change, which is shown by good reforms on many levels of social, political and economic life. One of the areas covered by the good change is the protection of the environment. In this respect, the government introduces a distance regime to regulate wind farms at an appropriate distance from human habitats and other areas to which wind farms have a negative impact. Although this law aims to protect people and the environment from the side-effects of energy generation from large wind farms, many protests have voiced that this is an alleged attack on clean energy. Protests are being announced to defend the existing regulations, indicating the negative attitude of the government in environmental matters. I've decided to look into these protests. It turned out that the announced protests are not only organized, but also sponsored by large wind farms. Free tours with a tour of Warsaw are organized, in which not only transport is provided, but also catering, but also taking part in a rally against the new government regulations. Such protests, instead of spontaneous expression of the will of society, are sponsored by international large corporations by gathering unknowing or misleading random people. To confirm my words, I present a leaflet informing you about a trip to Warsaw, which is organized by one of the Polish travel agencies and whose sponsor is the company Green Bear Corporation Poland - a corporation that deals with setting up wind farms. The tour is presented as an ordinary, completely free meal, including a free tourist trip, in which participation in the rally against government plans for wind farms is included. It is also interesting to know where to register for the trip. In addition to the travel agency, the School-Preschool Szadowice team is involved in this, in the secretariat of which it is possible to sign up for this trip and thus politically. In this way, large corporations involve an apolitical institution, such as a school dedicated to raising and teaching children and young people, in political action. The extent of social support that has been obtained in recent elections in order to make a good change in Poland, including in the field of environmental protection, should therefore continue. Knowing whether protests are a form of political sponsorship against a good change introduced by our government rather than a true expression of the will of society. The public expressed its will at ballot boxes in October 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u497	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u498	Statement on the maintenance of the College Medicum of Nicolaus Copernicus University within the current structure of the UMK. In autumn 2015, several politicians of the Civic Platform from Bydgoszcz invented a way for their election campaign to parliament: dividing the best university in northern Poland, i.e. the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń. They thought it necessary to fuel and intensify the Toruń-Bedgo animosities. They want to destroy the best brand in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship. The project written for the campaign not only has no substantive justification but is also legally defective. It is no wonder that it has been negatively assessed by all institutions affecting the development of higher education in Poland, such as the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, the Conference of Rectors of Polish Universities and the Main Council of Science and Higher Education. In the last position we read, quote: The project does not contain a substantive justification of purpose, and especially the necessity to separate the Collegium Medicum. Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń and the Medical Academy in Bydgoszcz in 2003 made an autonomous and voluntary decision to join. This was because both environments saw an opportunity to build a strong scientific environment. It was already realized that the future of Polish science was cooperation and integration, not division. History was right to the authors of this idea. Today, both communities form the fifth university in the country and the strongest public university in northern Poland. The medical development of the University and the entire university is impressive. The number of directions in Collegium Medicum has increased from seven to 22. The number of doctoral and habilitation rights has doubled. The financial situation of the Collegium Medicum, whose revenues increased significantly from 44 million in 2003 to 141 million last year, improved significantly. The total value of assets increased at that time from PLN 152 million to PLN 416 million. The College Medicum enjoys full organisational and financial autonomy. Every part of the university benefits from cooperation. The draft law is contrary not only to national, but also to European higher education and science policies. It is not by chance that the current Higher Education Act does not include the possibility of dividing universities. On the contrary, the strength of Polish science requires consolidation and cooperation of universities, which we have more in Poland today than in Germany or the UK. The most bizarre fact of this project is that at no stage of its preparation, the academic community concerned was not consulted, so that the project itself assumes the division of Nicolaus Copernicus University without the agreement and opinion of the academic senate. This is a violation of the principle of autonomy of universities enshrined in the Constitution, as well as of the provisions of the Law on Higher Education, which leaves no doubt that such an opinion is required for all changes in the organisation of universities. Meanwhile, the university authorities and its community oppose the separation of the Collegium Medicum. This is demonstrated by numerous statements by the Rector's authorities, as well as the recently adopted resolution of the University Senate on the preservation of the integrity of the university. The bill is legally defective not only in the context of the most important principles contained in the Constitution and the Law on Higher Education - it also violates a number of other rules and principles. The law in force does not allow for the autonomous transfer of workers from one unit to another. Unsolved remains the question of students who started their studies, hoping to obtain a UMK diploma, one of the best universities in Poland, and not the Medical University in Bydgoszcz, which will only build its position. There can be no agreement to destroy the best brand in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, which is Nicolaus Copernicus University. There's no permission to do that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u499	Thank you. Mr Marcin Horała, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! About a week ago, an article titled "The Vocal Newspaper" was published in a local supplement. 100 people good change in Pomerania. An article like the article, not the first, probably not the last, but this time it has exceeded such a level of absurdity, such a level of ridiculousness that I thought it worth sharing with the High House, because such tasty bites It's not worth keeping to yourself. Of course, the article talks about how the Law and Justice and the Government of the PiS perform the jump to the stools, promote nepotism, guyhood, casts the son of a child. What kind of boys were called as one of those 100 people in Pomerania? Yeah, for example. Vice-ministers in the PiS government, right? It's a terrible scandal, I don't think it happens in the world, for example. in Germany, how the CDU will win the election and form the CDU government, including the former CDU ministers. Unbelievable. Another example is the voivode, the representative, the realizer of the policy of the government in the field, which is also - of horror - from the PiS. As I understand it, it is best that the representative of the PiS government's policy in the field is, I don't know, someone from the Civic Platform or the Modern Platform. There goes a whole series of minor violations, manipulations, they're written down to the PiS people, of which 100% I know that members of the PiS are not, as PiS-people are represented, people who, many, many years ago, appeared from the PiS in the atmosphere of conflict and did not return to it. As you can see, the membership of the PiS has an unparalleled mark and has eliminated a man for life, even as long ago as he has performed from the PiS. There are still cases of more unobvious, sneaky ties to the PiS. For example, as a PiS-ocean, a lady has been exposed who has such a connection with the PiS that she belongs to the same trade union as Mr PiS's wife, and this relationship It's called NSZZ.Solidarity, and it really has a few thousand nice members in Pomerania, so being this cryptographer is easy, it can be done by chance. Next, as PiS-oceans, people are exposed, for example. They live in the same area where someone from PiS lives, e.g. On the same street as you think it's gonna be, in your opinion, irrefutable evidence of ties to the PiS. And of course, we also have some techniques to manipulate the performance, which is if someone has a function in some agency, in a company, has an education for it, experience, it was not written about it, it was written only what function it took and that it is from PiS plus. Some one of his stupid Facebook commentaries, or smart, different Facebook comments every one of us used to write. That's the sound of this article. So that we have already established that around every member of the PiS there should basically be a geographical area, as well as a social dead zone, which absolutely excludes any partyless professionals from filling them with any positions, even though they were friends of the sister's cousin's wife, someone who once, 10 years ago, was in the PiS. But I saved the best part for last. Well, as such an outstanding son, he was presented as an employee of my parliamentary office, and a former employee, which had already escaped the author, to this partyless, employed in my parliamentary office for 1/8 jobs. I can add that he made about 300 zlotys a month there. Unbelievable son, 300 zlotys a month. That's a lot of money, you might say. And then I sneaked into hiring a partyless person there. So, as I understand it, this ban on working and social death under the PiS regime is intended to include not only members of the PiS, but also non-party members, which would actually leave among the people available for employment, also in my office of the PiS Member, only the activists of the Civic Platform, Modern, possibly editors of the Wyborcza Gazeta. I think if I'm looking for employees, I'm gonna be looking for them in this group of people so I don't get caught up in this article. We had a laugh, now maybe a little serious. This article shows a problem and I do not hesitate to outline this problem, and the problem is that if in such a large region as the Pomeranian editor has to make such fiddles, so he must invent, manipulate to find at least 100 people with important jobs, it means that this exchange of staff is far too slow. I hope that our ministers will take this to heart, speed up this process of human resources exchange so that they can complete it so that they can deal with pure substantive work with new people who want to cooperate, they will want to implement the PiS programme, and we will be relieved by the editors of the Wyborcza Gazeta, because they may be able to find 100 actual PiS nominates, not the imaginary ones as in this article. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u501	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Nolas, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u502	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I owe this statement to people who miraculously saved from axes and forks of Ukrainian nationalists grouped in the Ukrainian Insurgent Army and SS Galizien, who brutally and mercilessly murdered Poles, from childhood in a cradle to old man over the grave. Despite the passing of so many years, their memory still carries those bloody days and red nights lit by the fire of human bodies, houses, fences and churches. It's the memory she's been carrying silent harm all these years. What can a humiliated man feel? More than that, how can a disunited nation live with such a great burden? How do you finally call that crime murder or genocide? What do you call sticking your kids on a dagger, throwing the living in a well or nailing their tongue to the table or picking out their eyes? Murder is it or genocide? How do you qualify ax cutting or slashing men's heads in collective crimes or filling women with pitchforks? What do you call it? What do you call it, honourable parliamentarian? We'll be working on it soon. The Kresowian environment has one request for us, the one they dreamed of for years of remembering their loved ones. Today they are waiting for the day on which Poland will name historical truth by name, establishing the 11th July National Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Kresowian Genocide. Is that so much? Do we really have to bid for this? Is the sacrifice of their blood still not enough for the truth to be free of such or other political circumstances? Look at that border village, the Volyn forest, the salty land from the sweat of generations and blood and the last breath with a song on their lips: "I will not cast the land from where our family came from. Maybe because of you and my voice, their wound will get a little scarred, their eyes will get a little glow? After all, it is so little, and at the same time for the Volynian orphans it is the most important moral compensation. The others aren't asking for it. Honor and national pride is what plays in their soul. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u503	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u504	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the European Parliament has adopted a resolution on the constitutional crisis in Poland, a resolution in its contents, of course, one-sided, biased, thesis-based, that everything is obvious in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal, and the political and legal dispute in Poland is a dispute between those who are clearly right, with those who are obviously wrong, and who are completely wrong. Probably there would have been no discussion in European forums, statements of many prominent politicians, including German, more or less criticizing Poland, sometimes even allowing themselves to cross the border of interference in our Polish affairs, if not for informants, politicians of informants. After all, it was on their part that the slogans of political activity were based on the principle of total opposition, especially in two areas: bringing people to the street, as well as inspiring the European Union to interfere in our affairs. Congratulations. You're effective. Congratulations. You are effective pests of Polish interests. The subject of the EU environment, including the European Parliament, cannot be surprised by the attacks on Poland. The Polish government, the current government, is clearly pursuing a policy that ensures the implementation of Polish national interests. And it's obviously not to the taste of many business groups in the West. The pat on the back ended, and very well, because it was a reflection of the presentation by previous governments of European interests over Poland. It is a pity that the European Union is interfering in our affairs, in principle it is not known on the basis of which legislation. Legal doubts about our Polish backyard are settled in the path of a free American woman. Finally, I would like to join in pain with Polish MEPs who voted in favour of the resolution with heartache - I say in quotes. I've assessed these attitudes before. I connect with them in pain because I am merciful, but I believe that society and the history of this mercy will not show. And one more rhetorical question: Where are you going with Unio European, Unio double standards, Unio domination of interest groups over national interests, Unio erroneous, suicidal decisions, Unio sweeping real problems under the carpet and putting them away in time, attacking proud nations leading independent policies in the interests of their own communities? Is that what we want? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u505	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the 1950s, the authorities of the Polish People's Republic began to create military formations with a particular economic purpose, which, due to their functions, were not fully military. Among them are mining, railway, road or construction troops. In fact, those who served under the cover of military service were forced and used for hard work, always under very difficult conditions. It was common practice to include in such battalions and regiments persons suspected or considered by communist authorities as enemies of the system, e.g. because of family background or service in the Home Army. Therefore, the elements of repression in the form of coercion of torture work were applied to them, while simultaneously derogating the living, sanitary and nutritional conditions. A step towards making amends for forced labor was the adoption of the Law of 2 September 1994 on the provision of money and powers to soldiers of the military substitute service forced to employ in coal mines, quarryings, uranium ore plants and construction battalions. According to its records, the former soldiers of these formations serving in 1949 and 1959 have the right to provide money and a lump sum of energy for each full month of service, but not more than 20 months from now. Unfortunately, in the above law, people serving in the railway forces who operated in our country until 1989 were omitted. They were most often the inhabitants of the eastern part of the country, about which the communist authorities had suspicions of a hostile attitude to the system at that time. Hence, the appointments to the railway forces and the forced work in the construction of tracks were one of the forms of repression used against the insubordinate Poles. As a result of the great exercise and the lack of regular meals, work lasted 12 hours a day regardless of the weather conditions in most workers caused negative health effects. There have also been fatal accidents on construction sites. According to estimates, these soldiers built or modernised about 40% Polish railway lines. For their efforts, they received only modest wages. Today they live in a sense of harm and have been fighting unsuccessfully for many years for their hard service. I therefore ask Minister Elżbieta Rafalska to undertake work to establish a witness for former rail troops, which will be an expression of social justice and a form of historical memory for them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u507	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u508	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I address the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction on problems on the Polish railway. And here is: travellers, inhabitants of Łukowa and the district of Łukow using trains of Mazowieckie Railways, Regional Transports and PKP Intercity repeatedly, unfortunately unsuccessfully, asked to restore services to passengers in the form of ticket offices, waiting rooms, buffet and toilets at PKP Łuków station. The railway junction of Łuków supports connections to Dęblin, Siedlec, Warsaw and towards Terespol. Used to be ticket companies sold tickets for all calls. There isn't even one at the moment. This is the case from 30 September 2014. I would like to mention that, in addition to ticket sales, the cashiers were happy to provide information about train running throughout Poland. Currently, passengers from the district of Łukow using the station of PKP are deprived of such and other information, and with constant changes in train timetables it is a huge difficulty for them. Not everyone can operate a ticket machine, not everyone has access to the Internet. Most travelers try to buy a ticket on a train, but it often happens that they have to stand in line for a ticket on a speeding train. The owner of the PKP SA station does not see this problem, and the carriers using the Łuków station in their letters explain that maintaining the ticket offices requires economic justification. Each side is on its own. And where is the social aspect of this matter? Where is the passenger's interest, its comfort of travel and the standards in the civilized world? Currently the works related to the modernisation of the PKP station by the Polish State Railways SA are being carried out. This entity, although investing, does not affect the provision of services to passengers at the PKP Łuków station. The work is expected to be completed at the end of June 2016. After the work is done, the comfort of travel is to be improved. How if cash registers and other service points are still not open? Someone's gonna say the money's too expensive. Why? Because the opening of the cash register is not interested in carriers. The reason for this is probably high prices for the provision of space by PKP SA. Their maintenance is of course a cost, but the higher standard and comfort of passenger travel, its habits and habits should also be taken into account, especially if they are young people commuting to upper secondary schools, universities and the first job. The costs could be lower if several carriers were sold in the same cashiers. Unfortunately, the common system was terminated after the Regional Transports were excluded from the PKP Group. To sum up, I would like to address the High House and all those concerned with a very simple question: Is there still public communication in our country and does anyone care about the comfort of travel, legal protection and the social interest of the participants in public transport? I would like to ask you to take an interest in this problem, because I believe that this problem does not only concern the previously mentioned Łukow and the district of Łukow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u509	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u510	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, April 13th, the 65th anniversary of the death of Mieczysław Dziemiewicz pseudos. A hive, a soldier of the National Armed Forces and the National Military Union, a participant of the Polish independence anti-communist underground in northern Mazowsze. Mieczysław Dziemiewicz was born on 25 January 1925 in Zagrobach. At the age of 14, he graduated from universal school in Rosanie. During the occupation he participated in secret teaching courses in Maków Mazowiecki. At the same time, he worked in a German transport company. The Dziemiewiewicz family was involved in the underground independence activities carried out by the National Armed Forces. The two Mieczysław brothers, Roman and George, were part of this organization. That is why he also joined her during the German occupation. In the spring of 1945. Mieczysław Dziemieliewicz was incorporated into the 1st reserve regiment of the Polish Army in Warsaw, but from which, immediately after receiving news of the murder of his brother, he escaped. On the other hand, he joined the guerrilla branch of NSZ NZW. Marian Kraśniewski, who was in charge of the team. He participated in numerous actions against UB officers and MO stations. Initially, he served as a liaison between the district command and the district command. Two years later, he was promoted to senior sergeant. Among the most important actions carried out by the branch of Russia between June 1947 and August 1948 can be mentioned among others. Disarming the MO station in Barancze and Gąsocin, ambushing the UB under Gołymin and Nasielsk or fighting the KBW and UB operating group under Pniew Wielki. During that time, the branch of the Soviet Union closed down 12 UB, MO and ORMO officers and more than 20 security officers. Structures of the "Royal" have been developed within the framework of the so-called "Royal" structures. Object cases founded at the Police Police Command and codenamed "Devils' to the guerrilla unit under his command. Dozens of agents were involved. A group of former members of the NZW who murdered their former associates was assigned to the liquidation of the Soviet Union. However, even though they managed to make contact with the Russians, they did not decide to perform the task because of fear. Mieczysław Dziemiewicz died only in Szyszki on 13 April 1951, along with his soldier Bronisław Gniazdowski pseudod. Mazur, in the fight against 300 people operating group UBP and KBW. 8 August 1945 Mieczysław Dziemiewicz was awarded the Cross of Valiant. On 13 October 2007, the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński posthumously awarded Mieczysław Dziemiewiewicz the Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order for the Rebirth of Poland. Russia was also awarded the Cross of the National Armed Action. Mieczysław Dziemieliewicz became the main character of the film devoted to the fate of the enchanted soldiers. The history of the Roja is better heard in the earth. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-sejm-16-2.u511	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 14 April 2016 at 10 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 19]]
