ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u1	Please take your seats so we can resume the sitting. At least we'll welcome the tour. I do not know where you came from, but welcome, have a nice day in Warsaw and, I hope, enjoy visiting the Sejm. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem with starting work because there are no representatives of the government yet. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Elżbieta Borowska, Katarzyna Osos, Piotr Olszówka and Sylvester Tulayev. In the first part of the session, Ms Elżbieta Borowska and Ms Katarzyna Osos will be the secretaries. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Elżbieta Borowska and Piotr Olszówka. I ask the appointed Members of the Secretaries... I see you're already here. Please read the messages. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 9, - Economy and Development - h.m. 9.15, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - to State Control, together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, at 3 p.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Culture and Media - hour 10, - Legal notice - hour. 10.30, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Communication with Poles abroad together with the Committee on Culture and Media - hour. 11, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development together with the Health Commission - at 3 p.m. 12, - to Foreign Affairs - at 10 p.m. 12, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 13, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 14, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 15, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 15, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Public Finance - hour. 17, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 18, - Economy and Development - h.m. 18, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 7:15 p.m. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Contact Team with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Mining Team - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for the Restoration of Moral Principles in Medicine together with Parliamentary Group for Pro-Family Policy and Culture - hour. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: public health - hour 11, - Dolnośląskie Parliamentary Team - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Solutions to Drug Addiction Problems - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 13.30, - Parliamentary Group for the Development of Tourism and Promotion of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Region - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Opposite and Troubleshooting Obesity Problems - h. 17, - West Pomeranian Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 5:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u3	Thank you very much, Member. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law on Research Institutes, - amending the Law on Hunting Law, - amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 624, 635 and 623 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to ask an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. First question. Mr Arthur Dunin and Mr Kostus are both. So we're going to start with that question. It is second in order, but we already have a person who will answer the question. Therefore, I would very much like to ask Mr Dunin's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We very much thank you for asking this question - a very important question, especially today, it seems, will be a small demonstration of people, companies who are involved in breeding activities. So I have a question for you. You are preparing an amendment to the Water Law Act. One paragraph concerns water collection fees for fishing holdings for the purpose of fish farming or other aquatic organisms. The introduction of fees is outrageous to the fishing environment. Once the proposal has been put in place, the cultivation and maintenance of the joints will become too expensive and even unprofitable. An important argument against the introduction of such a levy on the farms concerned is the fact that water is not a production tool in inland fisheries, but is a place where fish live, which is contrary to the idea of charging for the use of this water. In the case of trout farming, water returns in its entirety to rivers, and in the case of carp joints it is an important element of the environment, it performs other important functions, not included in the characteristics of Water Law. The farmers themselves confirm that fish water must be of good quality and that often the water they produce is significantly contaminated, which requires work to purify it. This is the function of carp-type breeding joints which improve the quality of water in watercourses by reducing nitrogen and phosphorus, as well as stopping the marsh suspension. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm running out of minutes. They're flying very fast. Maybe I'll just come to the questions, 'cause [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, the entire government is talking about a good change, and another vile change is preparing for fish farmers. I have questions. If your marshal will allow me, I'll try to read them because they're quite important. Has the Ministry carried out calculations on the introduction of water collection charges? How will this affect the fishing economy? How much will the cost of doing this increase? How will this affect the price of the product produced on such holdings? Has the Ministry conducted an analysis of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u5	Mr President, please make your way to the end because we have exceeded our time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u6	Just a little bit more, because I want to tell your marshal, everyone here, as well as interested, that the increase in the water rate will result in the loss of jobs, because the breeders will stop growing...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u7	In an additional question, Mr President, you will take the remainder, because time is already exceeded.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u8	Mr Tomasz is still... And yet there is no minister to answer the previous, the next question, so I think your marshal will be so kind as to let me read it. [[Oh, come on.]] What if, in the case of ponds for fish in the Natura 2000 area, entrepreneurs decide not to maintain the pond and drain the reservoir at such a high cost? How many breeding joints are in the Natura 2000 area? These questions can be multiplied. Thank you very much, Marshal, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u9	Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Mariusz Gajda. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u10	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Mr President, for these questions, because I have an opportunity here to explain some of the things that have been medialy spilled. Firstly, the introduction of fees for each collection of water is a condition of the so-called. ex ante use of EU funds. This is a condition under the Water Framework Directive on the principle of reimbursement of the cost of water services. The European Commission has repeatedly ordered us to introduce, among others. fees for the collection of water for fish and other aquatic organisms, including for the purposes of, inter alia, cooling of thermal power plants, i.e. targets for which water has so far been free of charge. [[For mining, too?]] I'll answer later. I'm sorry. Now this is the case, that is, we have had a number of meetings with representatives of fish farmers, both carp and salmonids, we have had a number of meetings with most organisations - with most, not all - we have agreed on compromise rates and they amount per hectare of ponds from PLN 4 to PLN 6 per year. We agreed that for the collection of underground water for salmonid fish farming it would be between PLN 100 and 125 per quarter, and for the collection of surface water - also a similar rate for flow joints. How will this translate, you asked the Member for production, for fish farming and for the financial condition of these breeders? Well, according to our calculations, the cost per kilogram of fish increased by not more than 1,5 gr. 1.5 gr per kilogram of fish. So it's going to be a slight increase. I would like to say that we have really approached this with great caution, the fees are symbolic, they must be, but they are symbolic. Next question: What about Nature 2000? Of course, where Natura 2000 is and there are fish ponds, if fish farmers still want to manage there, they will manage. Let me add that the deduction of these fees will not result in such an increase in the cost of fish farming as to cause the closure of the farm, the elimination of these ponds. As I said before, these fees are really compromise. We've had, like, six meetings. There were protests, of course. Not all organisations, I also stress, have agreed, because some organisations do not want to pay any fees, and unfortunately we need to introduce this principle, the principle of reimbursement of the cost of water services. We are aware that fish ponds play a very important role in the ecosystem, that is without doubt, but it is also not quite the case that these water resources, which are collected in the ponds, are such a complete retention, because this is not a availability retention. In the spring, water is taken into the ponds, and in the autumn water is given to the river. There are losses related to evaporation, there are losses on sews. We don't go into the details of the evaporation losses, the losses on the sews, the other losses. Sometimes there are pollutions, too, unfortunately. That is why we introduced the principle of a lump sum. It's a flat-rate fee. If we started to analyze all the side effects carefully, it might turn out that this charge could be, should be much, much larger. According to economists' calculations, this should be at the level of tens of zlotys per hectare, if we put all this very precisely in this. There were further questions, these questions were in writing, among others. whether we take on responsibility and losses, the burdens caused by these joints. This is a public-law fee, it is public-law, and therefore there will be no compensation. There was also a question about what happened to the measuring devices. So far, we're not predicting measuring devices for carpy-like fish ponds, salmon-like ponds, yes. But I would like to make it clear that all measuring devices will be performed, mounted at the expense of the new Polish Waters organization. So that we will not burden users. However, we want some control on the actual amount of water taken. We need to use water rationally, we can't use water robbery. Therefore, we need to introduce, for example, some measurements that will allow us to check how this water is used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u11	Thank you very much. Do you have any more questions for Mr Arthur Dunin? Is the list of questions exhausted? Mr President, you have one minute, because your colleague has abused everyone's patience by exceeding the time by 1.5 minutes. Therefore, please fit in in one minute, because I'm going to have to, although I don't like it, turn off your microphone. Please. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u12	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am aware that we are catching up, that we do not have time, that we are adapting Polish law to EU requirements, in particular to the Water Directive, that we are acting under pressure of time in the context of withdrawal of grants. However, this does not change the fact that the proposed change is very bad, it is harmful, it has negative consequences for farmers, for farmers, for entrepreneurs, for local government, and finally for society. Moreover, the negative opinions of the Rural Union, the Polish Districts Association, the Polish Provinces Association, and finally the Commission of the Common Government and Local Government, yesterday's picket before the Ministry of Environment, announced today before the Sejm are the best proof of this, are an illustration of the quality and consequences of the changes adopted or proposed. Question. So what is the future of young fishermen who intend to start breeding when the industry is on the verge of bankruptcy? Here's another question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you see the Minister's ability to further develop inland fishing in Poland after the proposed changes have been adopted? Finally: Has a fair debate been held with experts, industry and environmental organisations? And I repeat my colleague's question. Have credible economic analyses been carried out...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u13	We ask Minister Mariusz Gajda...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u14	...the introduction of a new Water Law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u15	...to answer these questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u16	Thank you very much. Since the Member has touched on a change in general, a good change, as the Member says, a bad change, I would like to emphasise one thing. The state, the previous government, has been unable to pass the Water Law Act for eight years. It should be adopted by the end of 2015. The bill was proceded, the Minister of the time, Minister Gawłowski, and its procedation was suspended in June only because it was unpopular and you were afraid that you would lose the elections you lost anyway. I would like to make it very clear that the introduction of the Water Law is nothing new, we have to do it, otherwise we will lose a dozen billion zlotys of EU funds. And you know that very well. [[What about mining?]] Next case. That's what it is. There's some demagogy again. Will the new breeders be able to do this, or do they have a chance? Everyone's got a chance. Ladies and gentlemen, a fee of PLN 4, from PLN 4 to PLN 6 per hectare per year for an average fishing holding, i.e. 100 ha, is only PLN 400 per year. About 800 kg of fish are produced from each hectare of these 100. Count it. These economic analyses, of course, were exactly what we did. So don't tell me it's gonna have a negative impact on the fish farmers' situation. Of course, no one likes any fees, no one likes change, and we realize that. Organisations have the right to protest, they have the right to express their views. We're talking to them, but unfortunately we can't go for a solution that talks about exemption from charges. Previous Water Law also introduced fees. It also introduced charges, ladies and gentlemen. The fact that it wasn't here, in the Seym, under investigation, is the fault of the previous government. We need to fix this situation very quickly. Of course, I could talk - but there is no time to talk about it - about the principles of Water Law at all... [[But so are we.]] ...his influence on local governments. We are creating Water Law, which is finally designed to put water management in order, protect against flooding, protect against drought. It cannot be like so far that shafts are in the hands of the marshal, water - RZGW, that sometimes there are three hosts on one river, and sometimes four. We had the effects of this, among others. Six years ago. So we have to bring it in. And by the way, we want to sort out the whole water law system, the whole water management system, which wasn't organized after 1989. This is an area that needs ordering. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's it. That's it. That's it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski and Mr Urszula Ruseck have yet to wait, because there is no representative of the Ministry. So the third question will be asked by Barbara Chrobak on the reasons for the huge debt of the Tauron Polska Energia Group - to the Minister of Energy. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll start right away with the questions. What are the reasons for the huge debt of the Tauron Polska Energia Group of 8 billion? What measures have been taken in the context of ownership supervision to determine these reasons? What steps have been taken to determine who is responsible for this situation and to hold them accountable? How will the debt of the Tauron Polska Energia Group translate into the economic condition of the companies that form part of it? Did the ownership supervision examine the appropriateness of the group's investment projects undertaken in 2011 and the amounts spent for this purpose? Has the validity of contracts concluded by the boards of companies of the group with external companies been examined for such services as e.g. training or counseling? Has the validity of long-term contracts concluded by the management board of the group companies with external companies for the supply of electricity and heat been examined? How is it possible that, with such a huge debt, Tauron's management recommends payment of a dividend to its shareholders in the amount of PLN 175 254 939? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u19	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The question is, Mrs Tauron, the financial condition of the Tauron capital group. To begin with, I just wanted to inform you that our resort has been managing the Tauron Group as owner supervision since 1 April. This, of course, has an impact on the fact that from the end of April, or actually May, we have started a deeper analysis of the financial situation of this group, as well as the reasons behind this situation. Because it is necessary to agree that a very important energy entity in the Polish economic and energy market, and not only in the Polish market, is actually in a difficult financial situation. The subject of our analysis, which has so far been carried out, is the current management carried out investments which were started in 2010, 2011 and subsequent, as well as the acquisition of third parties from the Polish market to the capital group. We are currently analysing, Madam, the validity and speed of the investment, because we have to note that any financing of investments, otherwise justified in a number of areas, is linked to the fact that if they are dragged out of the market, they do not give us the intended results, which are at the heart of investments such as Jaworzno or others, such as Łagisza, modernization or, for example, Bielsko, the power plant - delays in these investments are causing - whether Stalowa Wola, which does not bind economically to us after we imposed a financial analysis - the situation in the group is deteriorating. This means that, due to spending money from month to month, we see increasing financial difficulties. Thus, the first, as if the basic assumption is to take into account planned investments and delays in them, as well as the fact that some investments at the end of the related projects do not balance. Mrs Tauron, as regards companies cooperating with Tauron, as regards those who have analysed and advised, we have asked the current board to submit such a list. And indeed, the costs are high and are not always commensurate with efficiency. But it's quite common. This is also what we have in the hard coal companies. We also note there that the actors quite active in advising, in writing certain concepts did not always lead to the fact that these documents were effectively used. As for the dividend, Commissioner, the current board of directors did not make such a decision - of course it was agreed with the competent Ministry of Energy - because of the financial situation. If you would allow me, it is a detailed description of every investment I have in front of me, because I see that I am running out of time to send you - in detail every investment I have, because it is a bit of an investment. The calculations concerning each project, delays and the fact that it does not balance out for us will allow you to see why we have over PLN 8 million of losses. And these depreciation write-downs we had recently made Tauron's first time negative, which is to lose its business. Thank you, Member. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u21	Another question, Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome. Previously, Mrs Chrobak spoke.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Can it be expected that the employees of the Tauron Group companies will be affected by this debt? Is it possible for this reason to reduce wages or to reduce employment? And second question: Did the ownership supervision examine how much the group has allocated to advertising and sponsorship, and did it check the validity of these expenses? Is it true that contracts in this area have been designed so that in practice they cannot be terminated or terminated without consequences in the form of major financial losses for the group? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u23	Thank you very much. Minister, please answer these two further questions. Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As regards advertising expenditure, which is the second part of your question, as you will allow, please give us some time so that we can answer this precisely. This analysis has already been carried out by the Treasury Ministry, we have such information, and we are currently actually considering, say, a change in the system of certain sponsorship, advertising contracts, because it is really necessary to say that sport and other projects have been spent relatively large resources. Indeed, some sporting events or projects are justified, we must also say this, but there is a whole group of such ones that cause certain, I would say, doubts many of us, and from what we already have, the Ministry of the Treasury has done such an analysis, but we would like to complete and complete it, because there are quite a few of these agreements, and we would not like to speak ex cathedra, so that we do not harm someone, not to give information to growth, because we are aware that this company operates in a certain area of ownership shareholder. Let us therefore agree, Mr President, I think that this will not be a distant time, but in the coming weeks we will answer this second question precisely, because we are actually in an in-depth analysis phase. As for some reorganisations that we are currently carrying out, we do not plan to make redundancies, reductions or reductions in wages. In fact, we are considering some organisational changes, as far as I know, the board is currently talking to the social side, so that we can reorganise, for example, some of the investment projects that we have found, because the investment dates in Tauron itself are at risk. In addition, we know that Tauron has been involved in the space of the hard coal sector, and it is important that by reorganising certain entities within the Tauron structure itself, we can make effective use of these opportunities, the potential that we have, and at the same time respond very efficiently to the completion of those investments that Tauron has started, and today it has some skids and time, and financial. But believe me, we are not planning any serious action in terms of personal issues or a reduction in employment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u25	Thank you very much. We return to the first question, which means to the first group of questions that will be asked by Grzegorz Wojciechowski and Urszula Ruseck, the Law and Justice Club. Questions will be asked about the need for amendments to the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education and will be addressed to the Minister of Justice and answered by Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Marcin Warchoł. I ask Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski to ask a question. [[The other way around.]] The other way around? It's written on a different note. In that case, Mrs Urszula Ruseck will be present. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u26	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! By law of 5 August last year, from 1 January, citizens have access to free legal assistance provided by a lawyer or legal adviser or, under their authority, an applicant. Where this assistance is provided by non-governmental organisations, tax advisers and graduates of higher law studies shall also provide advice with at least 3 years of experience in the exercise of legal knowledge-intensive activities directly related to the provision of legal assistance. Not all citizens will receive free legal assistance, but only those under the age of 26, natural persons to whom social assistance was granted in the previous year under the Social Assistance Act, persons aged 65, persons with a valid Large Family Card, combatants, veterans, threatened with, or injured by natural disasters, natural disasters or technical accidents. The thematic scope of such assistance shall also be narrow and include informing the holder of the applicable legal status, entitlement or obligations and identifying how to address its legal problem, as well as helping to draw up only a draft letter to the extent necessary to provide assistance. Taking into account the powers, subject matter and scope of cases in which citizens can receive free legal assistance under the Act, and comparing the subject matter with which they report to the parliamentary offices, the Ombudsman, the Senators' Offices and the Legal Assistance Intervention Office at the President of the Republic of Poland, the Act of 5 August last year meets a small part of citizens' needs. The first figures on the functioning of this law also point to the need for a far-reaching change. Most of these cases concern interventions and cases not covered by the Act. Is expected [[♪ The bell ♪]] are the works intended to change the thematic, substantive or subjective scope of the Act? Is Art. 63 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland gives the possibility to extend the action of free legal assistance to applications, complaints and petitions? And does the number of advice provided and their complexity affect the remuneration of persons employed with free legal assistance? I often find that the advice is to give the address of the parliamentary office or the Legal Assistance Intervention Office to the President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u27	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u28	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! High Izbo! As far as the question raised by the Member is concerned, all these doubts raised here can indeed raise concerns about the scope of free legal assistance and the depth of this assistance. I'm sure it is. I know, because for many years I have been an employee of the Ombudsman's Office, which citizens expect help with, with which they turn to you, asking for help. With regard to these elements, which the honourable Member has pointed out, there is certainly a lot of reason for this. Indeed, first of all, the scope of recipients of this legal aid may seem too narrow - under the twenty-sixth, over the sixty-five... The question is whether, in fact, those people who, let's assume, are forty-six years old, not a big family, do not have a Large Family Card, have income within the range of PLN 800 and 900 per person, should not benefit from such help, and additionally have a specific problem, which is not just to obtain such information as can be obtained at the Registry of the court. I am going back to what the Member has said. Indeed, this scope of legal aid is limited to the preparation of a letter, true, and it is in the field of out-of-court legal aid. That is how it was formulated not to interfere with the assistance provided by agents appointed from office, whether in criminal proceedings or in civil proceedings. This, on the other hand, can undoubtedly give rise to doubts. There may be situations where those most in need of this assistance do not receive it, and it is addressed to those who either do not need it, or it is in such a form that you can go to the secretariat and ask whether the time limit for sitting is such or such. I can imagine. So I'm sure it needs analysis. Although the subject-matter of the persons to whom it is addressed does not include persons with disabilities. This was not in the question of the honourable Member here, but I am faced with these doubts. It should be obvious that this is a group of people who should be the preferred group in this area, right? Therefore, we analyse the operation of this law, collect data and are obliged to do so by the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. By letter dated 29 February, we asked the voivodships to report monthly to us, to provide information on the number of legal advices given, broken down by points held by lawyers or legal advisers and NGOs, and to provide quarterly aggregated data in this respect. These data will allow to observe the dynamics of this type of legal assistance and monthly processes. Therefore, we will keep you informed on this, and we will also be grateful for any kind of criticism and support for the voices of society. You have the best information and the best knowledge of what citizens need, what assistance they need and to whom they should be addressed. Therefore, every voice, every interpellation and offer of a meeting, even such a working, informal meeting with us, will be extremely valuable. We'll be very grateful for that. So that this question is also very important in this respect. To answer the question about the possibility of extension, I will say: there is a possibility. Constitution in this area, Art. 63 Constitutions which constitute complaints, applications and petitions absolutely do not prevent this, on the contrary, gives the possibility to change, to extend free legal assistance. I will remind you that at the time of the adoption of this law I did not participate in its adoption, but I know the period, the extent to which it was planned. Originally, there were two variants. The second option was assumed by the so-called. vouchers which would receive municipalities and persons with income below a certain threshold, we can estimate it at the level of PLN 800.1000 per head. Those persons would be entitled to such vouchers and with such vouchers a person could address the lawyer or counsel to whom he would like to go. It's up to her. This, of course, increases competition, but also reduces costs, because you do not need to maintain an expensive administrative apparatus, as it is today, in the form of a room in which an hour or two hours a day receives a particular person, specifically designated there. Of course, it has not been raised by the Member here either, but such voices are coming from the barrister's community. I just had a meeting with a representative of the Supreme Council of Attorneys. He said that the current system has frozen competition, it is not competitive, it does not give lawyers the opportunity to appear as those who [[♪ The bell ♪]] such assistance is able to guarantee in the best way. And such vouchers would give us the opportunity to go to a lawyer we like. Just a little bit, 'cause I'm...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u29	Minister, why don't we finish the answer after the next question, there'll be time, and at the most, if it's missing, I'll extend it. Now, Minister... excuse me, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski will ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u30	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Free legal assistance for those who exceed this income threshold is directed in a way, I would say, such a blind, because very often those who need this legal assistance have exceeded this income, but may have, mostly have a situation that the account is occupied by the bailiff, that their actual income is very low, and therefore these persons are not able to benefit from professional legal assistance. A somewhat similar logic is also based on the granting of a cost exemption [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the possibility of setting up a public defender here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u31	You're welcome, Minister, to answer earlier and these questions together in this second part of the time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u32	Thank you very much. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, Indeed, there is certainly a problem with this here, sir. A person charged even with bail-in costs or alimony or any other burden is not treated on an equal footing with a person who does not have such obligations, and this can actually cause concern in terms of inequality and restriction of access. So that's definitely what needs to be considered, that's definitely yes. Regarding further questions raised by the Member, the third question: whether the number of advice and complexity provided affects the remuneration of persons employed with free legal assistance, because, as she said, it is often the case that the advice consists in giving the address of the parliamentary office or the intervention legal assistance of the President of the Republic of Poland... So that here it is indeed an unhealthy situation, when the person receives advice on the basis that the address of the parliamentary office is given. This is not the case for free legal assistance. I'm sure it is. Does that affect your salary? As regards remuneration, in accordance with Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The task of providing this aid is financed from the state budget in the part at the disposal of the voivodships by granting special grants to powiats. About the art. 20, the grant consists in financing the task of providing free legal assistance and is transferred to 97% for remuneration under contracts with lawyers. The remuneration depends on the exercise of on-call time at the point of free legal assistance, not on the number of advice given, i.e. not on the number, but on-call time is important here. The grant for the remuneration of persons providing free legal aid shall not be linked to the amount of legal advice provided under the point of free legal aid. This, too, can undoubtedly be the subject of controversy. Regardless of how many of these claims have taken place, the remuneration is the same. Finally, the final question: Does the law carry out its task and improve the quality of contacts between the citizen - the office? In fact, I answered that question in my introduction. I see the shortcomings of this bill. I believe that she needs to be improved and does not carry out the task 100%, the task put before her. Question [[♪ The bell ♪]] is open: Should we not go back to the idea of these vouchers or any other idea? Let's think about it. So that I thank you very much for today's questions. We are open, as I say, to all kinds of comments, conclusions from all Members of Parliament, both these critical remarks and the positive ones. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u33	Thank you very much, Minister. And further questions will be asked by Members of the Modern Club on the draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws in the area of so-called. the confiscation of an enlarged one. That's a question for the Minister of Justice. You will also respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u34	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, the explanation that we realise that law enforcement should be equipped with powers that allow for the actual prosecution of criminals is that these criminals do not hide property. But in order for these conditions to be met, the rules to be introduced should also meet the conditions of constitutionality, as well as protect civil rights and freedoms. They write in the press, but also our offices across the country call and entrepreneurs come concerned about the proposed changes in the Penal Code concerning so-called. the confiscation of the extended, i.e. the possibility of a criminal offence, and even more specifically, are concerned about the possibility of setting up a compulsory management board of companies before the final judgment is delivered by the court. Above all, concern is the extension of the scope of the case, i.e. the situation in which it can be decided. The directive, which the Minister often refers to, requires Poland to actually implement legislation, but concerning the most serious crimes. On the other hand, you would also like to introduce, among other things, liability for the omission of information obligations under the Public Offering Act. All this and the introduction in this law of many non-acute concepts, which I will not be able to discuss here for a short time, gives rise to legitimate concerns of entrepreneurs that these laws may lead to abuse and be used to destroy as a result of the reports of competitors. Question: "Do you really want reruns from the film "The Closed System"? Because the laws you're proposing are actually legalizing the script from that movie. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The next question is: If a temporary management board is established and the company is bankrupt, will the State Treasury be held responsible for the failed company? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u35	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Marcin Warchoł, Ministry of Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u36	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. It is very good that this question has been put here. I had the pleasure of attending a conference in Brussels two days ago, where we discussed the proposed changes. These amendments, of course, constitute the implementation of the directive mentioned by the Member, but at the same time constitute the implementation of mechanisms that other countries have had for many, many years. The compulsory management of property after securing this property exists in France, exists in Italy, exists in Great Britain, exists in many countries. They're forced managers. How's it look? Let me explain. Namely, there are registers of compulsory managers kept by the State, which are responsible for the management of the confiscated property, but also for the company. The subject of the company is an issue that can arouse, indeed, your concerns, while our aim is to translate, show good practices from other countries, good practices from other countries, how it works. And this is how the rights of third parties are taken into account in this respect, and the question of property protection is also taken into account, and the European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly confirmed that such infringements do not occur. I'm just going to give you two examples that I bring in from talking to our friends in the UK about things that can show you that you're not as scary as you paint it. Or else: these solutions are already there, they are functioning and we are not introducing anything new that would not be there. Two things. The first case is Sanam v National Crime Agency of 2015, which is that during the marriage the spouse gave his wife a large villa, a large part of the estate. For several years this husband has been involved in money laundering and drug trafficking. At the time of his conviction, he was taken not only from his property, but also from his wife's property. My wife went to court saying she didn't know what her husband was doing. The court said: unfortunately, you have not shown good faith in this respect, you have not shown due diligence in this respect, that you may have found out. Sanam versus Britain. Two days ago, there was a judge who settled this case. We talked to him, so... Another case, Bold Transport versus Air, is an interesting case. We have a company in which the father and son have a stake, 50/50, and the rest of the family has the rest of the shares. What's going on? They're taking away his entire company. The question is, did the rest of the family show due care about father and son's dirty business? Court of First Instance in London said no. The Court of First Instance annulled that judgment by examining this condition of special care and concluded that the application of the so-called. A wide brush, that's exactly what the English wrote in the explanatory statement, is not allowed, because some of the rest of the family were interested in these two masters, father and son. They walked, asked, had doubts, etc. So they showed this particular care. Why am I talking about this? That's why I'm saying these examples exist, they are. I'm finally going to give you an Italian example, which is very cool. We got an example of a hotel from our Italian friends. Very nice hotel, four-star in Rome, Grand Hotel Gianicolo near Porta San Pancrazio. What happened to the hotel? He's also under forced control. What did it look like before when he was in the hands of criminals? Eight employees, six in black. He did not serve, contrary to his location, tourists, but served lunches, breakfasts, the family of the director of this hotel and similar inner banquets. He's under forced control. Currently it is a blooming hotel, employs 35 people. Finally, it serves tourism, that is, the destiny for which it was created. He doesn't serve criminals. It's working. It's all about going there or inviting them here, what we're doing to see how it works, and actually rip off those myths that we're fed. How does it look today? So it looks like we got 300 zlotys from the Pruszkow Mafia. What does the board look like, what does the financial security look like? In 2015 it was declared that the value of the secured property is PLN 303 509 100 across the country. About 2 billion assets are confiscated in four countries of the European Union per year, about 2 billion euros. This is Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain. What does it look like on the scale of our individual appeals? Value of assets secured in 2015 [[♪ The bell ♪]] e.g. in Warsaw it is 37 thousand. for one person for whom a property security order has been issued. These data are here. We're using this data. These data show that we have a system that is completely inadequate to the risks that are not fulfilling its function. The system is outdated, the system is inefficient. Therefore, our friends from the countries of the European Union expect us to clean up this yard because no one wants to have a neighbor who has a mess in his backyard that allows criminals to grow their profits. That's what we do...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u37	Minister... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: ...and that's what we're gonna do. We are ready for cooperation, for all your votes, the most critical ones, and we look forward to further development of talks. Thank you. So I'm gonna ask you a second question. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, also Modern. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u38	Dear Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you, by the way, what is the name of the Polish counterpart of the Italian Mafia Cosa Nostra, since you have presented such hotel examples here. Another question. Is the prosecution in its current shape prepared for professional management of the confiscated enterprise? How many managers are gonna hire? What's the plan to expand the property recovery office? Are there budget appropriations for this? Why does the government impose a misdemeanor of property without a conviction despite the existence of negative grounds for the final conviction? If it turns out that the entrepreneur is innocent, he may have a problem getting his assets back. What will be the guarantee that, in the event of acquittal, the State will repay the assets together with the compensation due for the lost benefits? Here's another thing. A citizen is not obliged to have practically lifelong documents confirming the legality of his assets. There are no rules. Why, then, the government seeks to force the entrepreneur to keep invoices, to confirm transfers, etc. Forever and ever? What will be the cost of archiving such documents? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And now an example that we can hypothetically deal with in life. The entrepreneur reports to the prosecutor's office on a competitive company, investigators initiate proceedings, a subpoenaed witness charges this company with testimony, the prosecutor secures the assets, introduces the manager to it, he has no idea how to run it, the company finally falls. What about cases like this when the D.A.'s office cancels the case or the court acquits the entrepreneur? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u39	Thank you very much. And I ask the Minister to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u40	Mr. Speaker! Non-conviction based confiscation. This is our future. Just confiscate without conviction. That's it. In the countries of the European Union, please imagine that 40% of confiscation is without conviction and only 13 with conviction. [[Amazing.]] [[Game in the O.R.]] Yes, sir. That's another line. Why should the absence of a conviction not be a negative condition? Because that's part of the directive. The directive explicitly states that escape cannot be an obstacle. As far as other reasons are concerned, death. This is the case of Sillickene v Lithuania, the European Court of Human Rights. The defendant, a high-ranking tax officer, died, his wife was taken away from her entire estate, and she complained that the proceedings were terminated, why they were taking her property. The European Court of Human Rights in this case concluded that death and termination of proceedings do not constitute an obstacle to confiscation. So those and other conditions that are included there, too. The statute of limitations, as I recall, is also in the directive. Raimondo against Italy. A number of other cases in the Strasbourg Court show that confiscation without conviction must be regarded as the most effective, modern and necessary tool. As far as further questions are concerned, securing property is a provision made by the prosecutor for which a complaint is filed before the court. It's not the D.A. that's gonna run the property. Where are these people gonna come from? That is precisely the point of bringing together these good practices from other countries of the European Union... The point is to pick them up, what we're doing, that's what our trips are for, that's why we invite them here to find the best of the best and order them to do it, just like this. have made other countries - France, Great Britain. That's our goal. That's what these conversations are for, that's what inter-ministerial consultations are for. This bill doesn't come in tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. That's why we're here to talk about it. Who's that? How can you imagine who this is? We're curious about your ideas. Who would you see? Experts, some entrepreneurs, law professors, truth, etc. That is our role here, all of us, to develop such good practices together. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the fight against economic crime. Penalty - punishments indicated there, I stress, is a punishment of 5 years, from the upper limit of 5 years imprisonment. These crimes...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u41	I'm extending your time by one minute, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you. ...are fined to a few million zlotys in jeopardy. These aren't trivial crimes... This is not a tax nonpayment, this is not a lack of tax information submitted on time. These are serious crimes, fines in the amount of several million at risk. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, the club of the Polish People's Party, on the imposition of new tasks on local governments without adequate security of implementation. That question is for the President of the Council of Ministers. We have two people to answer. Depending on the range of questions, different people will answer. Please, Madame, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u42	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear High Izbo! I am concerned about the concerns of local authorities, because local authorities at each meeting pay attention to imposing further tasks without providing funding for them. The Polish government forces itself to finance tasks commissioned by central authorities. It's done, of course. at the expense of other tasks. The last amendment of the Act on Medical Activity introduces the possibility of co-financing by Polish authorities of the activities of the National Health Fund. The plans of the Ministry of Environment include an amendment to the Water Law Act, which will impose a rainwater levy on local governments. In addition, you are taking the opportunity to develop local entrepreneurship by effectively eliminating renewable energy sources. We also have the announced changes in education ahead of us. The imposition of new financial obligations poses a major problem of raising or will pose a major problem of raising European funds. According to the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, by 2019 a quite large group of local government entities will have difficulty finding funds for new investments. From a dozen to a dozen percent of the units will have less than 1%. revenue of its budget. Please answer the questions: Why does the Polish government impose new tasks on local governments without securing resources for their implementation? How does he see and intend to support Polish municipalities, cities and districts? Why do you want to burden local governments with a negative financial result? How are local governments supposed to raise funds from the European Union without the possibility of securing their own contribution? How does the Polish government see the future of Polish self-government without adequate funding of basic tasks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u43	Does the Member provide for an additional question? [[No, thank you, unless something comes up.]] I see. This is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk for an answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u44	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very happy that Members have such close relations with local governments and know their problems very well. Thank you for this interest both Members of the opposition and Members of the coalition. It must be acknowledged that the autonomy of local government units is very high. The elected in direct elections, mayors, city presidents have really a very serious, extensive competence to shape the financial economy of their individuals. They shape income, determine to a large extent the condition, the size of the credit obligations and the lending obligations of these entities. They decide on debt ratios, they decide on the pace of implementation of investments, including those carried out with European Union funds. Indeed, these decisions made locally then determine the condition of the general government. However, I must say that the government is planning a number of reforms, including. in the economic and social sphere, which I believe will work out well, will promote economic development, employment growth, wage growth, which will have a positive impact on society's income and thus also on local governments. The implementation of government programmes will help to increase the tax base, which will benefit local government units. I would also like to say that any regulation made here in the High House, if they obtain a framework for the project and then are directed to work in the Sejm and obtain the formula of the bill following the signature of the President, the rules in force, are consulted within the Joint Government Commission and the Territorial Government. The self-government party shall each time have the opportunity to make a substantive statement on both the valuation, the costs of the task, the standard of its implementation and the manner in which it is financed. It must also be acknowledged that local authorities have full discretion in shaping their staff policies. It must be said here that in many of them, because there are no standardised employment rules for the implementation of basic tasks today, this gap in the number of people employed in the local government corresponding to the territorial scale, and especially the number of residents, is very large and leaves much to be desired. I would also like to address this specific question about the issue of covering the negative financial result of the SPOZ by local governments. It should be stressed that independent public health establishments operate a financial economy on the basis of a financial plan. They cover the costs of their activities and regulate liabilities from their resources and revenue. In principle, the negative financial result is covered by the SPOZ, while the possibility for local governments to cover the negative financial result is not a new solution, as this is provided by the current provisions of the Act on Medical Activity. It is also worth noting that according to the budgetary reports of local government units in 2015, the total revenue of local government units from state subsidies and general subsidies amounted to 77 490 million and was higher by 0.6% than in 2014. It is also worth saying that the level of revenue of local government units depends not only on the amount of funds received from the state budget in the form of grants and subsidies. The local government's own revenue also depends on the decisions of their authorities, which have the possibility to set local tax rates, but also to grant reductions in this respect. This may be interesting information for the High House that, for example, in the previous year, in 2015, as a result of the reduction of the upper rates of taxes, the granting of reliefs and exemptions, without statutory reliefs or exemptions, and the decision to cancel, to depreciate and postpone payments to the budgets of the JST, the amount of PLN 4828 million was not paid, which is 2.4% Total revenue and 4,7% own income. I can also say that the multiannual financial forecast provides for a significant increase in current surplus. This applies to all categories of local government units. The total revenue of local governments this year is planned for 186 792 million, next year for 188 412 million. The debt referred to by your Member is the share of total income, which is set at a percentage of 37.8 and is expected to fall to 35.6 in the next year. I would also like to say that there is some imbalance in the possibility of obtaining additional resources at the moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the grant may result from the fact that local authorities had better access in the first perspective, perhaps prepared better proposals and used up more of their debt limits. Perhaps it will also be a handicap, so that in the second perspective there will be a level playing field in terms of raising funds for these local governments and for these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u45	Minister, the honourable Member will complete the question and we will finish the answers. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: They weren't targeted enough. There'll be another three minutes. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u46	Minister! You called for cooperation with local governments. As is the case with the negative positions of both the Rural Union of the Republic of Poland, in which there are 591 municipalities, as well as the Association of Polish Cities, in which there are more than 300 cities. It's a 76% representation. population. It is an organisation which is called upon to develop a common position on procedures, on government legislation. These positions are often negative - mostly - and are not included in the procedure of all legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u47	Minister, I ask you to complete the answer to this question as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! It seems to me that it is so difficult to make such a clear reference to the wording, the accusation that all the demands are not properly fulfilled. We know well that expectations are high, that there are always ambitions. We are trying to meet these expectations to the fullest extent, but we are acting within a certain logic of balancing the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. I have precisely defined the amount of support for the local government units that we use. I'm talking about their own capabilities. I hope that this economic growth that we have at the moment is still a chance to increase it will actually lead to a better income situation for households. I think that the 500+ programme is also a programme that will provide better conditions for families, but also for households. The use of parts of these reliefs, which have so far been applied in local governments, in the form of redemption of various danins, even such basic ones, for waste, sometimes others, will not be necessary. With regard to these redemptions, which are used by local authorities, the amount of the waivers I was talking about here, or 4828 million for the previous year, may be lower. It'll also be an additional source of income. If I may refer here to one more element that you were talking about, i.e. to this fee for the loss of natural retention of the land and for the discharge of water to the ground, the charges would apply to the operator using water services, with which the local government should not be identified. Here the role of self-government would be more about charging these fees so far. On the other hand, the budget of local government units will not be charged. I think I've exhausted these fundamental questions. As far as renewable energy sources are concerned, we believe that this system of law, which remained after that term of the Sejm, strongly preferred renewable energy suppliers from wind energy sources. We would like to extend to the extent possible the diversification of this production to other sources and to the fullest extent disperse these renewable energy sources in such a way that they can operate effectively, also using the energy transmission network system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u49	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Łukasz Schreiber and Mr Wojciech Murdzek will ask the members of the Law and Justice Club another question. The question of changes in the tax control introduced by the government of Beata Szydło is addressed to the Minister of Finance. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński will answer. I ask Mr Luke Schreiber to ask the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We all know about the growing gray area in Poland. We know the dramatic state of public finances inherited from the Platform and PSL governments. We know the problem with the VAT gap, which is also growing. We know the government's determination to fight these crimes. We have a tax avoidance clause in place. We have accepted assumptions for a single control file. We have a special purpose vehicle for computerization. We have a limit on cash transactions. We only have to submit a VAT return by electronic means by some traders. We've got a pay rise in the IRS. In the light of the report by the NIK on fictional invoices, which we also discussed in this Chamber, we have seen best this problem that is facing the government and parliament today, this helplessness of offices, the impunity of criminals and the powerlessness of the state, and the fact that we only recover 1.3% the amounts of unpaid taxes. That the IRS... Yes, it may increase detection, but not necessarily the downloadability of influence. Therefore, my questions regarding changes in the tax control introduced by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. What were the changes? Is there a clear improvement in the operation of fiscal control? How have crime detection and tax collection improved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u51	I ask Minister Wiesław Jasiński to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u52	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, sir, for the question. As a general inspector of fiscal control, I have seen the need for radical changes for the past six months. Most likely these changes, I am convinced, had to be carried out many years earlier. All the determinants of these changes were polite to mention. The situation is changing, for example, that here in this Chamber the High House is very often discussing this issue, so it seems that this is also one of the positive manifestations of change. The first issue, the fiscal control for six months set priorities for its necessary actions. Firstly, we have determined that it is still necessary to define organised VAT crime, because we refer to it as an organized adjective. This is a priority, but we also see the need to combat corporate income tax offences. And that's the problem. Last year, in 2014, 86% of tax inspectors were dedicated to combating VAT fraud. It cannot be that we are throwing all our forces only on VAT, and we are forgetting this gap, which is also growing very much, which we are about to have a problem with. The next priority is to effectively punish and deprive the perpetrators of crimes and tax offences. Thirdly, dissemination of the use of IT tools and technologies. Fourthly, optimizing the use of resources. How will we implement these priorities in concrete actions? Firstly, we have identified the most important criminal mechanisms in VAT, i.e. extortion of VAT reimbursement in connection with alleged intra-Community supplies. This will be devoted to the preparation and implementation of a fuel package in the near future, about which I will say another word in a moment. Secondly, the fictional invoices you were debating two weeks ago. We will carry this out by means of an even more intensive cooperation of tax control with tax intelligence. In Polish reality, tax intelligence for many years has been a dummy employing just over 300 employees. It is a dummy in the sense that it does not carry out its tasks properly. That's what we're changing right now. You have to know that. it has only 7 implementation groups. Employees are queuing up to use the services of one of these 7 implementation groups. We must and organize completely different cooperation with other formations, because with such modest human resources, we are forced to use cooperation with other formations. The second action is to control the use of transfer pricing. In the first half of this year 170 inspections were initiated - this is much more than in previous years - and we carry out analytical activities compared to 230 entities. This year we will certainly launch a significant part of the controls on these entities. In total, it's about 400 operations. This is definitely more than in previous years. We have designated people for new jobs at the Tax Control Office in Warsaw as part of these needs - over 20 posts. In Poland at all, this is 1/5 of the state that lasts for many years. In addition, we are also expanding our position in this area in other tax control offices in Poland. We're gonna be running controls on large entities. We optimise the use of personal resources. The General Inspector for Tax Control canceled all regulations defining a defective incentive system, e.g. 16 directors of the tax control office were awarded prizes in 2014 amounting to approx. PLN 1 million. The main criterion was the size of tax reduction findings - only. Of this, the state budget had nothing but that we spent PLN 1 million on prizes. We've canceled those criteria. Today's main criterion, 80% The scales, there are payments. We have increased the number of analytical resources for tax control and decided to dismantle most of the competence centres, whose actions did not translate into revenue into the budget either. What are the results for the first quarter compared to the first quarter of 2015? Payments resulting from control decisions increased by 39.6%, payments resulting from the revision of declarations increased by 117%, payments for fines and mandates increased by 55,6% , withheld undue VAT returns increased by 98.1% On average, the findings for 1 control increased by 47%. Of course, we should also mention a completely new approach to [[♪ The bell ♪]] implementation of the law, but also the involvement of fiscal control in this area. Here I mean in particular a uniform control file. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u53	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Wojciech Murdzek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u54	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We know that there is a difference in the scale of the difficulty in collecting taxes by their various forms, that is, the situation with VAT is different, otherwise the situation with CIT, which in some companies, despite several years of existence, is not paid. The Minister could further approximate the scale of the difficulties and effects obtained precisely by the nature of the taxes. And we know that there are new taxes, and that too needs to be prepared, because we know that we are watching the banks pay taxes, and we will be watching the taxes on the commercial networks in a moment. This also requires the preparation of the services to actually [[♪ The bell ♪]] take off No backlogs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u55	Please, Minister, and answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u56	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this exemplification, because I didn't really talk about it. I mentioned here the transfer pricing controls and the expansion of the tax control staff involved. These are absolutely difficult controls. I remember talking to one of the new directors of the tax control office - here I can add that they were all mentioned, most of those who held positions there for 8 years; it seems that the issue of cadence is necessary here, by the way - and he told me that his analysis of a large entity with a stake in French capital obliges him to carry out controls, but there are few employees: so far only two have been dedicated to carrying out controls in large entities, yet specialised in the transfer of pricing. So this situation is really extremely difficult and we need to solve this problem during this transition period. I'm already providing information on control procedures in large entities. Entities whose turnover exceeds PLN 1 billion in the tax year, representing only 0,3% registered entities provide about 30% VAT revenue and close to 40% CIT revenues. Checks should therefore be carried out there. Checks will be carried out at a frequency that minimises the possibility of tax avoidance, i.e. not less frequently than every 5 years. But the first issue that we are discussing right now is, as I said, the rapid expansion of experts, inspectors, tax commissioners who will be ready to carry out such checks effectively. They are far longer than VAT controls, require preparations from these people and are also determined on a mental issue. Many tax inspectors have so far not carried out this kind of control, and we have been dealing with some avoidance of control. We have also had some shifts with regard to those previously selected for control. Such an example concerns, for example, Amber Gold and all related companies of this entity. And in this respect, i.e. only in terms of personal resources, we are making changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u57	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, on problems in granting refugee status by the government - to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. The answer will be answered by the Head of the Office for Foreigners Rafał Rogal. I see there's another group, this time young people. Well, I would like to say hello to you about that. I hope it will be a pleasant tour of the Seym, but that it will not only be a pleasure, but also you will learn some interesting things about the Seym. Now, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! I thank the Minister for his presence, but I will begin by regretting you answering this question. I would prefer a representative of the Ministry to answer this question, because my question is really a question of changing the way in which the policy is implemented. I know it doesn't fall within the minister's remit, but it's a tough one. I'm gonna ask the Minister and I'm counting on an answer. In view of the political situation and the armed activities in the east of Europe last year, the number of applications for refugee status in Poland increased to around 11 000. An important number of these applications are submitted by Ukrainian citizens coming from areas outside the control of the Ukrainian authorities. More than 4.5 thousand applications were submitted in 2014 and 2015. It should be stressed that they are usually families with children, often small children. I'm concerned about the scale of the refusals given by the Foreigners' Office. In recent years, only two persons have been granted refugee status and in 49 cases supplementary protection has been granted. Officials, arguing refusal, usually claimed that there were no war activities in the west of Ukraine and that possible assistance should first be provided in their own country. Minister, I'm in the position that there's no war in one part. Ukraine does not necessarily mean that the person applying for protection will be safe in the other part of the country. According to reports from international organizations, rebels often use torture systematically, also outside the area of close combat. We know many cases where Ukraine is unable to help all refugees, e.g. Crimea. I am concerned and misunderstood about further refusals to grant the status. These are well documented cases of refugees, some even survived torture. In fear of their own lives and their loved ones, they decided to flee to Poland to seek protection and help from our country. The vast majority of them are denied a year after the application has been submitted. The case of Mrs. Galina Gudvil, a single mother of five children who, after the annexation of Crimea, is a bouldering example of not granting refugee status. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Russia has decided to flee to our country. In Szczecin he receives support from the Council of the Evangelical Church of Christians and many scabbards. Your Marshal, would you mind if I blocked my time? I want to give you a few examples.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u59	Yes, do it at the same time, which means it'll be three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u60	Thank you, ma'am. She receives help from the Council of the Evangelical Church of Christians and from many scaffolds, including the heads of schools to which her children began to attend. From this point of view, I would like to thank all people of good will who have committed themselves to helping this brave woman and all others who have similarly volunteered to help refugees in Poland. I would also like to draw attention to the fate of Mrs Oksana Paszczenko and her family - we know these reports from recent days, even from the media - her husband, her nine children who escaped from Mariupola 2 years ago. They quickly acclimated in Legnica, the children learned Polish, they feel very good at school. The decision to expel a family from Poland is outrageous, inhuman, incomprehensible. Unfortunately, Poland is observing many such dramatic situations, and the cause is an extremely restrictive state policy in this area, a growing dislike, sometimes even hatred towards refugees. Does the Minister see the need to change the policy of the Polish state in this regard? Is the government planning such a policy change? Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u61	I ask the Minister to respond. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u62	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! The Head of the Office for Foreigners, because this question concerns the activities of the Head of the Office for Foreigners, makes an individual assessment of each application for international protection and no decision is issued automatically and the proceedings are certainly not template. This is also the case for Ukrainian citizens. Each applicant shall be given the opportunity to express his or her concerns about returning to his or her country of origin both during the hearing and at each stage of the proceedings in writing. His statements are then confronted with constantly changed, constantly updated studies on the situation in the country of origin. Very often these reports are produced by NGOs or international organisations, among others. those which you have been gracious to mention in your question, such as UNHCR or IOM or the State Department, Human Rights Watch and others. These studies are drawn up both by qualified staff of the Office for Foreigners, because there is an institutionalized cell in the office, which is dedicated to this type of development. Thus, each decision is based on reliable, exhaustive and individualised evidence. It is worth adding that the number of decisions by the Head of the Office for Foreigners repealed by the Council for Refugees and Administrative Courts is small because the Council repealed only 9,2% last year the decision of the Head of Office. In the case of Ukrainian citizens, this percentage is even lower as it amounted to 6.9% , and we are talking here about a very extensive procedure because Poland is one of the few countries of the European Union that have a two-instant system of administrative procedure, and yet a two-instant system of justice, so it is possible to verify this decision by three further instances. In my opinion, this confirms the high quality of work carried out by the staff of the Office for Foreigners. However, with regard to decisions refusing to grant international protection to Ukrainian citizens, it should be stressed that not all applicants come from areas occupied by separatists or engaged in war activities. People from war-free areas usually refer to the country's poor economic situation or fear of joining the army. These reasons have nothing to do with the grounds for granting international protection which the Geneva Convention establishes, as we know, which results in the adoption of decisions refusing them. In the case of applicants from Crimea and Donbass - I would like to stress this - the head of office every time, in every decision states that in these regions, these persons are threatened with persecution or serious harm, which implies the recognition that this person fulfils the conditions for international protection. However, the 1951 Convention, or so-called. The Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees, the European Union Directive and the Law implementing it on the granting of protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland require the authority to verify whether the person concerned has the opportunity to benefit from the so-called. alternative internal escape - the conflict in Ukraine is covered by 8% the territory of the country - whether the person has the possibility to move and reside in another part of the country. In assessing whether the situation in a part of the territory of origin complies with the above requirement, account shall be taken of the prevailing circumstances in that part of the territory and, that is to say, the personal circumstances of the foreigner. This means that in any case, the body is to consider not only the general possibility for the applicant to obtain protection in its own country, but also to examine whether it will be possible for this particular person to live a relatively normal life in a place where he or she could move to. This assessment takes into account the personal circumstances of the foreigner, such as sex, age, property status, family situation, health status, education, knowledge of languages. Otherwise, an internal displaced person, who is a young, healthy, well-educated and single man, or a single mother with four children, will be evaluated. If, after such an examination, the foreigner is deemed to have found refuge in another part of the country, the determining authority shall be obliged to issue a negative decision. In previous proceedings, the Head of the Office for Foreigners or the Refugee Council has already granted protection to Ukrainian citizens from Donbass or Crimea whose personal situation was so difficult that they could not be expected to receive proper care in the territory controlled by the Kiev government. These were among others. cancer patients, a family with a disabled child, a person suffering from severe mental illness or elderly people. Currently, the Head of the Office for Foreigners provides for subsequent decisions to grant international protection to Ukrainian citizens in a similar situation of life. The refusal to grant international protection does not close the applicant's possibility of finding refuge in Poland on the basis of other legal provisions, not only on the basis of narrow and detailed conditions of the Act on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The Polish system of granting protection is complete in this respect. Apart from refugee status and subsidiary protection, it also provides for the possibility of granting foreign nationals permission to stay for humanitarian reasons when a foreigner threatens to violate fundamental human rights in the country of origin or when returning to the country of origin would constitute an infringement of his or her right to family life or a violation of the rights of the child, which has often been forgotten, ending only with these two institutions. This applies to families... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your Marshal, may I finish? There's really not much left.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u63	Yeah, I'm gonna extend it a minute longer. Head of the Office for Foreigners Rafał Rogala: Thank you very much. This includes: families where children have become integrated... Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, That's the first question. Let us move on to the next question from the Member, and then you will answer everything together in the second part. And if there's no time, that's the minute I'm going to extend it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u64	Your Marshal, thank you very kindly for your kindness, because you have already extended me the first part of your speech. Minister, I know all this data. My question is different and I would ask for an answer. I know this may not be a question for you, but you answer. We apply a policy that is extremely restrictive as a country, allowing us to apply it even to families that have fully integrated with the community, where children go to school successfully, and sometimes even after a year parents have a chance to work peacefully. We decide to remove these people from Poland, which personally outrageds me. I would like to hear whether the government intends to change this policy so that people integrated into the Polish community do not be thrown out of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u65	And now is the time to answer. I think three minutes is enough for a total answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u66	Definitely. Thank you very much. Mr President, that is where I am going with this. This introduction was necessary in order to present what relates to the content of your question. So all of this, which I said just now, concerns families whose children have integrated with the Polish society so strongly that returning to their country of origin could lead to problems in their functioning. This consent shall be granted following an examination of the grounds for the decision to return under the return procedure. This is an institution that contains mechanisms to protect against expulsion. Thus, the initial perception of the initiation of a return procedure as a negative does not mean that the person concerned will not be protected. In many cases it is, which I will try to prove in a moment. Humanitarian consent is unlimited, complementary, allows work to be done without additional authorisation. In the same mode, you can use the institution's permission to stay tolerated, if the foreigner e.g. would not be eligible to benefit from this first institution, i.e. humanitarian consent. As for the family specifically mentioned by your Member, the Paszczenko family and the Gudvil family, we have had the opportunity to discuss in this case. As for Mrs Gudvil and her decision, I would like to point out that the matter is being considered, but the fact that it is taking place is mainly due to the actions of the foreigner who did not attend meetings appointed by the office. We agreed on a date that would be convenient for this foreigner, and it turned out that there was a certain inconvenience associated with her son's illness. On the other hand, as regards the issue of the Paszczenko family, which has recently appeared in the media, the head of the office has already repealed the decision of the Border Guard due to the fact that the possibility of this family being protected in the context of the integration of the entire family into the territory of the Republic of Poland has not been considered. As I say, the initiation of an obligation procedure in no way means that it will end with a negative decision in a substantive sense for the foreigner, namely his expulsion, because there are mechanisms under this procedure that we very often apply and try to implement them as much as possible. Why do we use them then? It is because these institutions are used to legalise residence or to protect people who are integrated into society. The Geneva Convention does not provide for such a criterion, and therefore we, when implementing it in the national order, cannot recognise in this procedure that these persons can rightly be covered by conventional protection or protection resulting from European Union directives. And that's what this refugee procedure is for. This is the implementation of international order into national order. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would just like to add that we have given such consents for humanitarian reasons since 2014 for the Ukrainians 93 and permissions for the humanitarian stay were granted 28. So you have to consider everything. As far as the context of policy change is concerned, this policy is constantly being changed, this situation is evolving with the situation on the ground in Ukraine, but also evolving with time. Integration takes time. In order to be responsive to this issue, it must take some time. Therefore, this is the moment when the relevant decisions will be issued. And here as much politics as possible will go in a positive direction when it comes to Ukrainian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u67	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Members of the Law and Justice Club Mr Piotr Polak and Mr Piotr Olszówka on the common positions of agriculture ministers of the Visegrad Group and the Weimar Triangle on the necessary measures on agricultural markets since November 2015. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Jacek Bogucki. I ask Mr Piotr Pole to ask the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ministers of agriculture of the Polish government have recently devoted a great deal of effort and effort to solve problems affecting Polish farmers, EU farmers in many agricultural markets. This is specifically about the pigmeat market, the milk market or the sugar market recently. In doing so, they meet with ministers of agriculture of other European Union countries. And so, at the end of April they met within the Visegrad Group, extended by several countries neighbouring the Visegrad Group and at the beginning of June as part of the Weimar Triangle. The result is many agreements or calls to resolve a difficult situation that is very difficult on these agricultural markets. The European Commission has been called upon to amend the multiannual financial framework for 2014 and 2020 in order to secure additional resources to support the crisis. The need to review the common agricultural policy with a view to ensuring a level playing field or, at the June meeting of ministers of the Weimar Triangle, an agreement was signed on joint action on agricultural markets, including the mobilisation of funds to stabilise them, and the German Agriculture Minister Mr Schmidt ensured that farmers would not be left alone with their problems. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the effects of these meetings, these joint actions, translate into a concrete change in the approach to the difficult situation of farmers and their understanding by the European Commission. What are the results of these meetings? Are the other countries, the ministers of agriculture of other countries these developed [[♪ The bell ♪]] do the agreements also support or support in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u69	Thank you very much. We ask Minister Jack Bogucki to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to the question asked by Mr Piotr Polak, I would like to inform you that the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the Ministry of Agriculture under the direction of Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel, has been very active in supporting Polish farmers in this difficult situation that we have found, taking power. The difficult situation concerns Polish farmers for many reasons, and it also concerns farmers from other countries of the European Union. However, when Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel took over the management of the Ministry, there were no documents, no inter-state arrangements in this respect, so that Poland's actions, Poland's calls for our proposals to be supported by other European countries, and consequently to support the European Commission. Starting with the first steps we started, there was an increase in the difficult situation in the agricultural markets and a proposal to address it at every meeting of EU agriculture ministers, as well as at any meeting of committees dealing with these issues, agricultural issues. From the meeting, support for Polish proposals grew, more and more countries joined this, to support our proposals, although there were still countries that contested Polish proposals and thought that the market should regulate everything. This was also the initial position of the European Commission. As a result, Minister Krzysztof Jurgel took action to address this issue during meetings of groups that exist within the European Union and to obtain more and more countries and organisations to support Polish proposals. During the meeting of the Visegrad Group on Bulgaria, Romania, Slovenia and Austria, i.e. eight Central European countries, a joint statement was drawn up which raised the issue of the difficult situation on agricultural markets and called on the European Commission to take more intensive action on the milk market, the pigmeat market, but also on the sugar market. The only thing that Poland failed to achieve is support for the Polish application, which we are raising, to maintain the sugar quota after 30 September 2017, so that this market is not another market on the milk market, where there will be total destabilisation. But as far as the milk market and the pigmeat market are concerned, we had a full agreement and provisions on support from the EU budget, which Poland strongly stresses - that support should not concern individual countries but be supported from the EU budget. Such records have been accepted. The next meeting was a meeting organized on the initiative of Minister Krzysztof Jurgel. On June 9, Poland, Germany and France met agriculture ministers in Warsaw. Within the framework of the Weimar Triangle, a common position was reached, which will be presented in a few days, on 27 and 28 June, during the meeting of the Council of Agriculture Ministers of the European Union. The Warsaw declaration, because it was named with the consent of all agricultural ministers, has 14 points and refers to the difficult situation on the markets of milk, pork, but also on the important market of fruit and vegetables for Poland. Ministers have proposed support in these markets from the European Union's financial resources, which should be particularly stressed - not from individual budgets, but from the Union budget - to support the mechanisms governing this market. Specific provisions on specific solutions have emerged in this agreement. This is a huge success, because so far, actually since the beginning of Poland's participation in the European Union, there has been no situation in which three large countries, the largest countries, in terms of agricultural production, agricultural strength, Poland, Germany and France, have developed a common solution at the level of agriculture ministers, committed themselves to supporting this solution and seeking allies among other countries to support this solution, and to persuade the European Commission to do so. I'm sure it's a milestone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to support Polish proposals, which we have been repeating since November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u71	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Piotr Olszówka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u72	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! While some of my doubts have already been answered by the Minister, I would nevertheless like to ask you about the meeting with Commissioner Hogan, which took place in March in our parliament, and the role of farmers in strengthening the food chain. We have a situation here that farmers have very low prices, and retail sales look exactly what they look like, which is on store shelves, nothing really changes. The Commissioner has made a declaration that a task force will be set up to address this issue, and there will be EU funds for it. So that I would very much ask the Minister to tell me what it looks like or not at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Something about this is happening whether these declarations are being implemented or not. In fact, we still have representatives on the Committee on Agriculture of the European Union. Is something done in the European Union on this subject? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u73	I ask the Minister to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In response to Mr Piotr Olszówka's question concerning the meeting with Commissioner Hogan, I will say that during the meeting not here, in Parliament, but during the meeting of Commissioner Hogan with the management of the Ministry, we discussed with Minister Jurgiel about the detailed solutions which Poland would like to propose and which are very important in terms of Polish agriculture. Commissioner Hogan made declarations of support for some of the Polish proposals. Unfortunately, so far we have not been able to obtain support for export subsidies, for more pro-market solutions, but changes in the way the European Commission officials think in recent months, after the Polish action informing about the difficult situation on agricultural markets and after many speeches by the Polish agricultural minister Krzysztof Jurgiel on this issue, after many conclusions which were coming from Poland, follow. There is a change in the position of the European Commission and there is a greater openness to solutions supporting Polish farmers. We need to be aware that, from the declaration to the decision-making and implementation of it in the EU structures, there is usually quite a lot of time, but these are at least months that are necessary to develop solutions, to agree on them and to implement them. However, the information itself that work on certain activities has begun, that such activities are being developed in the European Commission, is good news for Polish farmers. It turns out that Polish alarms in this case, Polish speeches in this case are not ineffective. The question of strengthening the position of farmers in the agri-food supply chain is also the subject of the European Union's structures and work undertaken. However, we are not waiting for the European Commission to introduce such solutions. We have prepared Polish solutions in this area and they will soon, I hope, come to the session of the Sejm. We are also, of course, looking for the European Commission to regulate this at EU level. In any case, our meetings within the Visegrad Group or the Weimar Triangle are an effort to strengthen [[♪ The bell ♪]] the position of Polish proposals in the European arena and the crossing of these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u75	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska and Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, the Civic Platform Club. This is a question about the difficult situation of the Museum of Technology and Industry NOT. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Mr Leszek Sirko. As the first Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u76	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Please provide information about the reasons for the decision not to grant a grant by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education to the Museum of Technology and Industry NOT. The decision seems completely incomprehensible due to the fact that over the past years, the museum has received a further adjustment for current business expenditure, including rent, salaries for employees. This is therefore the first case since 2006, when the Ministry rejected the museum's application. The facility is already facing serious financial problems, no money for salaries, no insurance for employees. The museum also owes rent for a few months. In 2015, the Council The General Technical Organization - Federation of Scientific and Technical Associations and the Minister of Economy concluded an agreement establishing a cultural institution of the Museum of Technology and Industry in Warsaw, which was to be entered in the register of cultural institutions kept by the Minister. Representatives of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the authorities of the capital city of Warsaw also participated in the agreement. One of the most important consequences of the agreement was to ensure permanent funding of the institution from the state budget against high educational values and an impressive collection of exhibits. It was a natural consequence of the operation of the museum, and at the same time a solution to repeated problems with the funding of its activities. Today the museum must go through this formal path again, which may take years. The Ministry of Development sends positive signals about the willingness to talk and solve the problems of the museum. Unfortunately, however, there are no concrete proposals for this at this time. We would like to point out that the museum is a place where the achievements of Polish technology are located, and young scientists have the opportunity to draw knowledge and inspiration. Despite the popularity of the museum, its long tradition, its rich collection [[♪ The bell ♪]] technical monuments of refusal to grant grants and cessation of work on the transformation of this facility into a cultural institution may mean closure of the site. And I have a question: What was the basis for refusing to grant the grant that the museum had received so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u77	Thank you very much. And the Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u78	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Messengers, Ladies and gentlemen, the Museum of Technology and Industry has been in operation since 1952. The organizer of the museum is the Chief Technical Organization - Federation of Scientific and Technical Associations NOT. According to the Act of 7 April 1989, it is the Law of Associations, the obligation to take care of the internal unit, which is the Museum of Technology and Industry NOT, rests with its organizer, the Federation of Scientific and Technical Associations NOT. I was going to say that the museum's situation is actually pretty bad. Annually, the museum is visited by ca. 140 thousand. Visitors, whose income, mainly from ticket sales, is at 800,000. PLN-1 million, while annually it pays the rent itself in the range of 1800 thousand PLN. zł. It can therefore be seen that the revenue from the tickets does not cover the expenditure of the museum to such a minimum. The Museum of Technology and Industry NOT applies annually for funding tasks in the field of science dissemination activities. Here I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Law on the Financing of Science of 30 April 2010, such institutions may apply for task funding for science dissemination activities rather than subjective funding. Therefore, such a request must be examined individually each time. In 2015, the Minister of Science and Higher Education granted funding for the task of: The dissemination of Polish science and technology in 2015, but subject to the urgent need to develop a new solution to ensure the functioning and performance of the tasks covered by the proposal. What was the reason for refusing to grant the museum's funds this year? The interdisciplinary team for science dissemination activities did not recommend this task for funding due to a general description of the individual intentions. I would like to say that this situation has always been repeated in previous years - the team did not recommend the task because the applications submitted by the museum were not detailed, and only later did the ministry's decision somehow alter the recommendation of this team. In this situation, apart from others, the individual shortcomings of the proposal do not include the costs of organising all events in the form of a common cost estimate. The Minister for Science and Higher Education, in accordance with the applicable rules, may provide support to entities such as the museum only in the form of financing tasks which concern the dissemination, promotion and dissemination of the results of research and development activities. As I have pointed out, funding from science funds is tasked rather than subjective. Therefore, every time there must be a proposal and a detailed justification for it, which will justify the fact that the museum is financed. It must be said that, in the context of the financial difficulties faced by the Museum of Technology and Industry, there is no doubt that specific tasks need to be undertaken. Namely, it seems necessary for FSNT NOT to carry out its activities in agreement with the president of M.S. Warsaw, Ministry of Development, Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, which will solve this problem and stabilise the functioning of the museum. In addition, it is necessary to join the urgent restructuring work by increasing own revenue and reducing the costs of the museum's operation, as has already been advocated many times before. Of course, the issue is complex and requires the involvement of all interested parties in resolving the current situation, especially NOT itself. The main problem is that the Museum of Technology and Industry is not legally a state museum. It acts as an organizational unit of FSNT NOT and has no legal personality. The role of owner is the Federation of Scientific and Technical Associations. Action on solving the difficult situation of the technical museum was also taken in previous years, in particular in 2014. The initiative of establishing in railway areas in Warsaw, i.e. Odolany na Wola, a modern communication and technology centre. They would have their headquarters there, among others. Railway Museum and public transport museum. A proposal was made to FSNT NOT to move there [[♪ The bell ♪]] Museum of Technology and Industry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u79	Minister, why don't we finish answering some questions as to how your marshal will ask an additional question. Then there will be this time, a total of 3 minutes to complete the answers to the previous questions and to the answer... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Leszek Sirko: Good. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u80	The Minister recalled the history, but I also wanted to point out that this question was addressed to the Prime Minister, because we are aware that there must be a solution here and by the Ministry of Culture, and by the Ministry of Science, and by the Ministry of Development, and also in cooperation with the city. In the last term of office we managed to reach such an agreement, because a new unit must be formed, probably co-led by NOT and the Ministry of Development, because the museum of science, as you yourself have pointed out, has been lost somewhere. There is a social institution with wonderful collections, and it is not able to secure or exploit these collections. In fact, these last few years are the help of many institutions every time, so that these harvests don't disperse so that they're in one hand. That is why our question was addressed to the Prime Minister. Is there any chance that this joint action will be taken? Because here must be the cooperation of the city, the Ministry of Development, NOT and the Ministry's support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] cultures that would show how to run such an institution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u81	I mean, there's no doubt there's a chance. I would like to mention that on 20 May, a meeting of the management of the firm with representatives of the President of the Republic of Poland took place at the Office of the President of Poland. The Ministry of Science and Higher Education, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the City Hall of Warsaw, also participated in it by the Federation of Scientific and Technical Associations - the Chief Technical Organization and the Museum of Technology and Industry. The aim of the meeting was to find a solution for ad hoc financial support for the museum and to develop a new formula for this institution. Various options to solve the problem have been discussed, among others. transforming the technical museum into a state museum, transforming the Museum of Technology and Industry into an institution of culture, ensuring the financing of its activities from the state budget and m.st. Warsaw and the establishment by the museum of cooperation with the Copernicus Science Centre. The conclusion concludes that in order to find a solution it is also necessary to involve NOT itself, which is very important because NOT must take the initiative to formally transform the museum into a state museum. Only such a transformation will allow for the provision of permanent state financial assistance, so that's just... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: They are asking for this because they want this support.]] ...we're waiting for this kind of initiative. Besides, there is still a possibility of financing a dedicated museum from funds for science-promoting activities. So this is an open situation and we are also waiting for the initiative of the museum itself or the NOT organization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u82	Thank you very much. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: I understand that these talks are happening and these meetings...]] You're welcome, Marshal. More? It's over, isn't it? Thank you very much, Minister. We'll get to the next question in a minute, but I was asked to say hello, which is what I'm doing. At the gallery there is a group of councillors, councillors, near housewives from Pomian, the municipality of Trzcinica. Very warm greetings, have a good stay. [[Applause]] I hope that the impressions will be positive, it will be seen differently here, on the spot, than on TV. And now the next question will be asked by Ewa Tomaszewska... I hope you are already a Member. There isn't? But he's gonna ask a question. ...and Mrs Małgorzata Wypych on further expansion of line No. 2 of the Warsaw Metro. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, and will be answered by Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Mr Piotr Stomma. But we will start with Małgorzata Wypych. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is to expand the second thread of the metro. It is known that there are currently two lines in Warsaw. The first line, from Kabat to Młocin, connects the Bielany Vistula to Ursynów on the left bank. This is, you can say, the most convenient - and from what you can see, the most covered, especially during peak hours - means of transport for both Warsawians and people who live here, I think of the influx population, as well as for tourists. As for the second thread of the metro, the youngest one, it covers seven stations, from Wilenski Railway Station to Ronda Daszyński, thus connecting Prague-North with Wola. The question is whether, due to the fact that there were plans to connect the metro line both the district of Targówek as well as the access to the northern cemetery, so-called. Wólki, they are still due to the fact that it is, however, an undertaking exceeding the costs and possibilities of financing, self-financing by the city. The first thread was built for 25 years, the second a little shorter. The question is whether such solutions are envisaged for the ministry's activities and plans.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u84	Thank you very much. And, Minister, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u85	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for asking this question. The involvement of the Government of Law and Justice in solving this important transport problem for the city of Warsaw is evident. In the end of 2007 additional funds were provided for the efforts of the then government to dynamicise the construction of the Metro in Warsaw. Of course, at present, the Ministry is very supportive of this direction of action and we share the doubts in the Ministry regarding, say, the reality of the plans that are being undertaken and the degree of their preparation. And this is a good opportunity to talk about it. Unfortunately, I must say that, in the current terms of competence, when it comes to planning such projects and, in particular, financing them, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Development, and what I am about to talk about is the effects of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development, but precisely in this part of development in recent years. Against this background These doubts arise. In general, it should be stressed that the extension of the second metro line is carried out by m.st. Warsaw, or local government. And after the decision to implement such a project, in particular in the current agreement of competence, the minister responsible for transport does not have direct responsibility here. On the other hand, in connection with, I would say, close relations with the Centre for EU Transport Projects, which is integrated into the system of supervision and management of EU funds, I can provide such information that currently the construction of the metro, the extension of the second line is carried out within two projects. The first project includes the development of infrastructure and the purchase of rolling stock, the second project focuses on the purchase of rolling stock, although infrastructure work will also continue. Now for the first project. The contract is now signed, it happened in March this year, for construction work, for the implementation of the eastern northern section. That means it's a stretch from Wilenski Station to Targówek 2 Station, which means we're heading towards Bródno. And you could say it's concrete. The contract was also signed in October 2015 for the extension of the Kabaty technical station. On the other hand, when it comes to the contractor on the western section, i.e. from Daszyński's roundabout in the direction of ul. Prince Janusz, here the contractor is chosen, but the signing of the contract is suspended pending decisions on the building permit. And here is the moment when you can talk about doubts about the state of preparation of the project, this is our common concern. The implementation of this project is foreseen for the period until September 2019. Currently, in the unit I mentioned, the EU Transport Projects Centre is assessing the application for funding. This is about the amount of the co-financing in the amount of approx. PLN 1826 million. Following a positive decision by CUPT, it will still be necessary to accept the European Commission, as it is a large project that exceeds the value of EUR 50 million. The second part of the project, which is focused on rolling stock, is expected to be implemented by 2022, and therefore the request for funding of the project is not yet submitted, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whereas the announcement of tender procedures is envisaged for 2017.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u86	Minister, we'll finish the answers after we've asked the extra question, then we'll have three more minutes. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you about the actual shape of this line. Is this line, this project, when it comes to Western Warsaw, closed? Because housing estates are being expanded towards Italy and unfortunately, communication is not so simple. Traffic that is on the road, e.g. from Wola to Jelonka, they are also what is troubling and mean to the inhabitants of these settlements difficulty in moving. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It seems to me that it is also worth considering the extension of the M1 line towards Młocin, to the North Cemetery, and towards the South, to Piaseczna. It would be worth considering this possibility. So I'd like some extra information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u88	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u89	Just one more sentence. It's just that the city won't be able to finance such a serious expense from its own resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u90	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u91	Thank you, Marshal. I share the doubts, Madam President, the resources are limited, and this is a problem, given the needs that you are talking about, which are being diagnosed. I would like to stress that, of course, we are dealing here, in general, not with the city's own resources, but with a project financed at the maximum possible level - 85%. from EU funds. So as part of the availability of resources - as it looked like and not much has changed here - let's say, in the middle of last year, when the previous government crew as if closing these plans, it was possible to bring the material scope of this expansion into Prince Janusz's station in the perspective of 2022. That's the reality. On the other hand, in view of the doubts that I was talking about at the very beginning, and given that a request has not yet been made for this section, so we do not know exactly how the technical project will be defined, we have the possibility of at least a careful and critical look at what the city is preparing. And I can assure you that the Ministry, despite its real lack of competence, but through its impact, through CUPT and in good cooperation with the Ministry of Development, will try to look at the scope of this project and we will certainly inform you in writing of the effects of this research. What I'm going to say is that I'm responsible right now is that I would ask you to accept such information, not very precise, but indicating our commitment to the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u92	Thank you, Minister. And the last question will be asked by Members of Law and Justice, Barbara Dziuk, Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sąk - this will be the first part - and the additional question by Marcin Horała. Questions will be on the development of the availability of online registrations to primary healthcare doctors in Poland. The question is to the Minister of Health. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Piotr Gryza will answer. Please, Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Together with Members, we want to speak about the establishment of a nationwide database providing registration in an online clinic. The need to go to the clinic personally to register, and coming to the clinic a few hours later, is a great difficulty for patients and for use today. Let's not hide, calling registration usually puts patients to a hard test. Does the Ministry provide for the creation of an application on one nationwide server? Probably such a nationwide base, to which clinics and doctors can be added, would be a significant facilitation for both sides. For starters, I propose that you take this responsibility to the clinic of family doctors. I would like to point out that it would be transparent for the doctor and for the patient to plan admissions and, above all, they would save a lot of time and stress. On-line registration works in private health care facilities and private clinics make life easier for a long time, as reported by the media. Now it's time for public clinics. Minister, as Members, and at the same time as patients, can we count on this, both to start the website quickly and to be able to register? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u94	And Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk will complete this part of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u95	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, in addition to the question, I would like to point out that this problem is in particular taking place in large cities. Smaller centres, as it turns out, have dealt with this, private clinics have dealt with it, but we are not dealing with a unified, uniform registration system at the moment. Such systems have banks, such systems have offices. As Members, we see no reason why public health services should be the only place where such a system does not function, but we remain in the 20th century or even in the 19th century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u96	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u97	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, No regulation determines the requirements or the need for online registration in the area of primary healthcare. The legislator has so far assumed that imposing on a certain local dimension a statutory obligation related to the online registration system may impose excessive costs and also impose an obligation which, due to the administrative requirement, will not be implemented. In the case of hospitals and outpatient specialised care in Article. 23a The Act on benefits financed from public sources is imposed and a statutory delegation is established for the Minister of Health to lay down detailed conditions relating to this registration. It must be borne in mind that in the case of basic health care, and not only in the case of this care, we are dealing with two serious organisational and technical problems. Firstly, it is about defining the conditions for access channels. It is true what you say about this, and this is a very serious problem related to the functioning of primary health care, access, registration for your visit. We all have problems with calling, but practice shows that every registration process involves some competition between different access channels: telephone, personal, direct, personal in time and finally online. Here we need to decide what the rights of individual access channels are. This is a very serious matter of organizational and formal nature. I know of cases from public health services when it has already been possible to register online as part of basic health care, which is de facto reduced to registration much earlier and only for a few selected time windows over the whole month. This solution doesn't do anything. Thus, the first issue is related to the definition of channels, to the regulation between access channels, and the second is related to the identification and authentication of the person who makes the online registration. This is a more serious issue, not only related to basic health care, but also to the registration of benefits via Internet channels at all. A broader perspective is needed here. I would like to mention that in connection with the legislative delegation, art. 23a of the bill mentioned by me, we are working on a solution to use both mechanisms that can be created by a trusted profile, which according to government plans is to be more widely disseminated at the end of this year. using, say, in quotes, mechanisms that were used for the 500+ programme, as well as some possibility of local identification and authentication of the patient in the entities in which it was located. Another point is that basic healthcare has a local dimension and the construction of a central portal that will administer access to local primary healthcare providers is a reversal of a certain order that should be built. First of all, they should build this functionality on their own, and then, which is also related to the government's intentions, they should start building a large portal through which citizens will be able to handle all communication issues between citizens and administrations in a broad sense. So you could say that there is a strategic plan. He became, among other things. writes in the foundation of the program, which was recently presented in the Ministry of Development, i.e.: from paper to digital Poland, but it is a perspective of several years. On the other hand, returning directly to basic health care, I would like to say that we are working here on this and we are wondering, first, whether the introduction of a regulatory requirement is the right solution to define requirements for online registration, because perhaps a better solution is some stimulation, for example. on the part of the payer who can say: if there is such a registration process, then either a certain communication with the payer is easily obtained or there is a higher capital charge. Only then, of course, is the problem of how to verify the operation of this functionality because the application can enable it to be used, and in fact on the scale of the whole entity or the whole system it will not work. Plus, it's still there. This is the situation that the more important task which should have been carried out earlier is to improve the functioning of basic health care, to change a certain paradigm, so that POZ does not only function in current mode and responds to the patient's desire to obtain advice or service in primary health care, but to the POZ [[♪ The bell ♪]] She took care of the population that was assigned to this entity. So to answer briefly...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u98	Minister, you will finish the answer in the second part, if you will, and the additional question will be asked by Mr Marcin Horal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In my question, I would like to refer to some of the threads that the Minister raised. As far as determining the rights of individual access channels is concerned, it seems to me that there is a problem that best solves the individual ZOZs. After a while they will gain some knowledge about the fact that, for example. one channel is particularly popular, so most of these windows should be reserved for it, and other channels, less popular, can handle fewer windows. I think that at the level of each clinic you will be able to manage this fluently. When it comes to the identification, authentication of registered persons, I think that there is nothing to overly fetish this problem, because already telephone registration or even personal registration takes place in practice without identifying a person, and it is often so that people close to them or for example. Someone asked just makes a registration on someone's behalf. Finally, as regards the local dimension of this issue, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to point out that it is a great opportunity to be late in this area. It is possible to skip the stage in which individual clinics have to develop, buy licences, manage different registration systems, while they can start creating such a nationwide system, then put on the Internet, where individual clinics could assume their profiles, and patients could attach themselves to these profiles and register in them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u100	Minister, I ask you to complete the answers to your questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! He spoke about some solutions, I spoke about some problems which are related to this registration method. I take this as a certain voice in the discussion and a certain urgency in our work that we are doing. These works are also carried out in the perspective of the P1 project, which in this area, in the area of registration affected an important aspect of e-learning. Because in the case of POZ this, let's say, doesn't matter, but in the case of other benefits e-direction is important, because it becomes unique and allows de facto real registration for visits to a specialist doctor. I can answer in such a way that we are working on it, we are leaning on it, and we want this channel or this registration method to be made available to patients in the short term, not only in terms of basic health care, but also in other areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u102	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. The next will be the current information. Allow me to announce a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 35 hrs. 11 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the details of the involvement of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland in military missions to be conducted outside Poland, in areas occupied by the so-called. The Islamic State, which was requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers may be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Semoniak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club has requested information on this issue in the belief that the government has completely neglected to inform Poles that it intends to use Polish troops abroad. Only the media statements of the Minister of National Defence were information for Poles on this matter. We believe that the use of Polish troops in the war zone in the fight against the so-called. The Islamic State is a very serious matter that deserves to be widely informed by the Polish public. This is why we hope very much that today we will get answers from government representatives to the various important questions that arise in connection with this issue. In addition to the fact that the government has neglected information, the government has also neglected the dialogue with the opposition on this matter. The issue was not the subject of the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence or in any other form of parliamentary consultation. I would like to point out that this is the first time this has happened. Until now the participation of Polish soldiers in missions outside the borders has generally been the subject of consensus of the main political forces. Today, through this way, the Government of Law and Justice takes sole responsibility for this decision. What argument have we heard about sending Polish soldiers? That this is to some extent related to decisions that are about to collapse on the strengthening of the Eastern NATO flank. I would like to point out that, in terms of our commitment to the Alliance, we have no complexities. We're in Afghanistan, Kosovo, we're on an Air Police mission, and the mission against the Islamic State is not a NATO mission. We also point out that we have doubts as to when and how this decision was taken by the Prime Minister. I would like to hear from the representatives of the government why the procedure of the decision and the proposal of the President of the Council of Ministers was applied, not the proposal of the Council of Ministers, which here were the reasons for adopting this particular legal road. Nor do we know when the Prime Minister's decision was taken. At least there wasn't any information publicly about it. It is a pity that the Prime Minister did not say in any form at the time of this decision, and preferably before it was taken, explaining to Poles what the reasons are. Poland has politically supported this coalition since 2014. From this point on, options for different engagements have been considered. Our governments have not made such decisions. We decided to increase the quota in Afghanistan at the request of the Americans. At the request of allies, too, we became a framework state in VJTF. Of course, we never had any doubt that the Polish Army, the Air Force and the Special Forces were perfectly prepared for such missions. That's not what this is all about. It is about politics and political responsibility for decisions. First of all, we expect an answer to the question of why this decision is being announced now and why Polish soldiers will be sent before the NATO summit. This naturally raises the issue of the security of Poles in connection with the NATO Summit and the World Youth Day. I would like to ask: What was the position of the MMA and the ABW to announce this mission and get involved before the NATO summit? It seems that the only rational explanation, unless we hear another from a government representative, is that it is an attempt to improve the image on the international arena of fatal PiS governments before some allies. Even from our greatest friend in the US Senate, the chairman of the Senate Armed Forces Commission, Senator McCain, a great friend of Poland, as I mentioned, was made a sharp critic of the Polish authorities. His next statement was yesterday. If this is the case, if these are the real reasons for the decision of the government and the President, this is a bad action, instrumentally using Polish soldiers and putting Polish citizens at risk. We'd like to know why right now. That's the most important question. Let me stress that we are in favour of fighting terrorism. We are in favour of a strong presence in NATO, for strong relations with the United States. We worked on this effectively and intensively. But this must be done prudently, putting Poland's interests in the foreground and bearing the enormous burden of responsibility for the life and health of Polish soldiers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u104	Thank you very much, sir. I ask for your reply from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr. Tomasz Szatkowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the question in the context of current information, I have the honour to represent Mr Antoni Macierewicz, Minister of National Defence, who is taking part in an intergovernmental consultation in Berlin today with the Prime Minister. In the first point I will refer to the justification of Poland's participation in Operation Inherent Resolve and until this decision is taken. First of all, in the coming weeks, of course we all know this, the summit of the North Atlantic Pact will be held in Warsaw. At this summit, very important decisions will be taken in the spirit of allied solidarity. This will also include a very important groundbreaking reinforcement of the eastern flank. As a result of the decisions taken by the North Atlantic Pact, we expect to strengthen Poland's security by thousands of soldiers of allies with heavy combat equipment. This will be a crucial decision for the security of Poland. But the Alliance is an alliance of states that are located in... affected by various security threats, including threats from the south - a terrorist threat. We, as a country, are the object of some of the indirect effects of the crisis that we are facing in the Middle East. In this context, the expression of allied solidarity seems obvious. Operation Inherent Resolve is not an operation conducted directly by the North Atlantic Pact, but the North Atlantic Pact supports this operation in various indirect ways, and this will also be devoted to the talks at the summit in Warsaw. We are of course aware that the main Polish allies are involved in this operation and are counting on Poland's support. Moreover, when it comes to time, I will say this: Poland has been a participant in this coalition since 2015. In 2015, decisions were also made about some logistical support for the coalition, which will soon also be made public. It's about backup by transporting ammo. However, allies asked Poland to participate in a much wider dimension. These were requests for participation in exploratory support and training support. In this respect, certain decisions have been made in the Ministry of National Defence for a long time. These decisions were also accepted by Prime Minister Semoniak, they were not made. Moreover, in January 2015, Mr Grzegorz Schetyna declared the participation of the Polish Special Forces in NATO support activities in Washington. Given the image of Poland as a solid ally, given the very ambitious demands, the expectations of Poland to be realized at the summit in Warsaw, the implementation of these requests of allies comes at the last possible moment. At this point I will go to the presentation of details related to the participation of the Polish Army in Operation Inherent Resolve. It is an operation that is conducted within the framework of the Global Coalition to fight against the so-called. The Islamic State. The Global Coalition was established by the United States of America in September 2014 and responds to threats caused by so-called actions. The Islamic State. The legal basis is Resolutions No 1267 of 15 October 1999, No 2170 of 15 August 2014, No 2178 of 24 September 2014, No 2199 of 12 February 2015, No 2249 of 20 November 2015 and No 2253 of 17 December 2015. The UN Security Council has recognised that the Islamic State is a terrorist group and constitutes a threat to global peace and security. The goal of the Global Coalition is to finally defeat the Islamic State. The coalition operates in five areas: military operations, capacity building and training, stopping the influx of foreign fighters - terrorists, cutting down sources of terrorist financing, humanitarian aid and stabilisation support, fighting ideology so-called. The Islamic State. Currently, the coalition has 66 countries. Most of our allies are involved in various activities. Military aid is provided by e.g. countries such as the Czech Republic, Hungary, small Estonia or even Slovenia. In various other forms practically all our allies participate. With a view to solidarity with international efforts to combat terrorism, as well as the previous involvement of the Republic of Poland in the operation of the Global Coalition of a humanitarian and logistical nature, the President of the Republic of Poland signed on 17 June a proposal from the President of the Council of Ministers to use Polish military quotas in Operation Inherent Resolve. The basis is lex specialis from the Law on the Rules of Use or Residence of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland outside the borders of the State in relation to anti-terrorist activities. And that's what the article says. 3 (1) (a) 1 point 2 and Article. Point 2 (1) (a) c in conjunction with Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on the rules of use or residence of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland outside the borders of the State are the basis for such, and not another way of taking this decision. Following this decision, the Polish Armed Forces allocated two military quotas. The first of them, the Polish Military Quota of Operation Inherent Resolve Iraq, will carry out training and advisory tasks - will count up to 60 soldiers and military personnel separated from the Special Forces - with elements of the support of the quota in Jordan and Kuwait. The participation of the Polish Military Quota in Iraq will be an advisory and training character, as I said before, without involving Polish soldiers in combat activities, i.e. stricte kinetic, except as a result of the need for search and rescue missions. Special Forces will carry out their tasks on the basis of allied infrastructure in Baghdad. The main tasks of the Polish Military Quota will include advice and training of staff and special units of Iraqi forces. The second of the quotas, the Polish Military Quota of Operation Inherent Resolve in Kuwait, will carry out flight tasks in relation to imaging recognition for the purpose of supporting Operation Inherent Resolve against the Islamic State over the territory of Iraq in the composition of four F-16 aircraft with two DB-110 reconnaissance storage tanks. It will count to 150 soldiers and military personnel with support element in Qatar. In addition, PKW officers will be assigned to work at the Multinational Air Operations Centre in Al Udeid, Qatar, and their task will be to coordinate exploratory missions conducted by Polish aircraft. Separated forces shall not have a mandate to conduct impact operations beyond the situation arising from the right to self-defense in the event of an attack. The Polish military quotas will be used for the period from 20 June to 31 December 2016 in the Republic of Iraq and the State of Kuwait. They will be operationally subordinate to the Central Command of the United States of America, the US CENTCOM. In terms of national governance, they will be subject to the Minister of Defence through the operational commander of types of Armed Forces. The government administration body responsible for cooperation with the commanders of the operations will be the Minister of National Defence through the Head of the General Staff of the Polish Army. The Minister of National Defence will be responsible for the management and supply of the Polish Military Quota through the operational commander of types of Armed Forces. The Minister of National Defence through the operational commander of types of Armed Forces will also be responsible for moving the Polish Military Quota to and from the operation area and for insurance of soldiers and military personnel against the consequences of unfortunate accidents. The planned amount of expenditure for the use of Polish military quotas under the operation will amount to about PLN 52 million, including: PKW Kuwait approx. 30 million, PKW Iraq approx. 22 million. The project will be financed from the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. The detailed scope of the preparation, relocation and operation of the Polish military quotas in Kuwait and Iraq, with the division of tasks for the various organisational cells of the Ministry of Defence, was defined in the decisions of the Minister of National Defence of 31 May 2016. The task was carried out by the Secretary and Undersecretaries of State in the Ministry of National Defence, the Head of the General Staff, General Commander of Armed Forces types and operational commander of types of Armed Forces, the Head of the MON Security Officer for Flights, the Director of the Military Health Service Department, the Head of the Military Counterintelligence Service, the Head of Military Intelligence Service and the Chief of Field Officer. Schedule for the deployment of Polish military quotas in the area of the mission. As far as PKW Kuwait is concerned, on 20 June a C-130 transport group was relocated, i.e. 29 soldiers, to the Al Jaber Air Force base in Kuwait. On 5 July, the main component of the Air Force is scheduled to be relocated together with F-16 aircraft. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish Military Quota in Iraq - the relocation has already been completed. On July 3, 11 it is planned to relocate the support elements to Jordan and to move the preparatory group to Iraq. This is the main information I wanted to present at this point. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Ladies and gentlemen, 43 people have signed up. Since the time to speak is 2 minutes, I ask you to speak briefly, because at some point we will unfortunately have to end the speeches because it is subject to a 90-minute limit. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! They report to our offices women, mothers, Polish women who work hard and give birth to children in Poland, raise them in love for their homeland, to values: God, honor and homeland, which do not intend, in case of danger, to hide with them in the hut. And they ask whether the opposition understands or only pretends that they do not understand why we need to build a strong position of Poland in the world. To keep our children safe. Right now, terrorism is the biggest threat, and fighting it is our priority. These women are asking if you're faking it, because if you're faking it, it means you're dishonest with women and our children. Minister, do you remember an equally important NATO summit in Newport, Wales less than two years ago? How did the opposition behave then? Did she support the government at that time in its efforts to build a safe Poland? Did the politicians of Law and Justice always support Poles when they had to be supported, regardless of the political option, to build a strong position in Poland? Was this the case with Mr Donald Tusk, who was supported by Law and Justice to strengthen Poland's position in the world? [[Voice from the room: But where was it supported?]] Do you understand where this support is? Where Donald Tusk is. This is how the politicians of Law and Justice supported it. You don't understand. You're dishonest because you don't want to tell women and their children what you're doing to keep our children safe here and now so that they can be safe from World Youth Day, because the threat is far beyond our borders... [[Voice from the room: Now it will be closer.]] ...but only a strong, uniform and coherent Poland, a strong world position, will give us safety. The state as the governing team of so many years you know best that meeting international [[♪ The bell ♪]] agreements and alliances...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u108	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u109	...building our country, and you're trying to convince...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u110	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u111	...to society that you don't understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u112	Madame, I do not want to turn off your microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u113	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u114	Please, let's hold on for a maximum of two minutes. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate today is indeed about the security of our country. This debate would not have taken place if it had not been for the request of the Civic Platform club to explain the reasons for sending Polish soldiers to fight in the coalition against the Islamic State. It was not a good opportunity for the Prime Minister Beata Szydło, when she decided to send Polish soldiers to inform the Polish public about this extremely important decision. President Andrzej Duda did not take the opportunity to inform the Polish public about this very important act either. Only thanks to this proposal do we have the opportunity to hear not the Minister of National Defence, but the Deputy Minister. Today the Deputy Minister is trying to explain not only to the Members of the opposition, but after all to all Poles the reasons for this decision. This is the reason, as the Deputy Minister points out, for ally solidarity. I ask you, Deputy Minister: Does anyone in the world, especially in the Alliance, in NATO, accuse Poland of lack of allied solidarity? After our great commitment to Iraq, after our great commitment to Afghanistan - and presently, we are still maintaining a very serious military contingent in Afghanistan - after multiple missions in Air Police, defending the airspace of the Baltic States, after our involvement in the Balkans, can anyone in the world say that Poland, using the great security foundation that NATO gives, uses this security for free? Our contribution is obvious, we are judged as one of the most reliable allies within NATO. Sending troops in every country to missions outside the borders [[♪ The bell ♪]] must be explained to the public. There's no explanation for that. An explanation...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u116	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u117	...submitted by the Vice Minister is ridiculous. [[Applause]] [[Time's up, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u118	Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u119	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz is not here! The decision to immediately involve our F-16 fighter aircraft in this mission bears the mark of irritating the Islamic State, not a real fight and a well-thought-out strategy against terrorism. You already know why you put in such a terriblely prepared and written anti-terrorist bill at the rate of breaking your neck. Because you realize that by sending our troops to the front today, you are simultaneously sending an invitation to the Islamic State for attacks on the territory of the Republic on the eve of the upcoming events: World Youth Days and the NATO Summit. This is a strategic mistake. This decision should not be made now, but should be taken in a thoughtful, consulted and aware manner after these important events have taken place in the territory of the Republic of Poland. I see here a sense of the introduction of these provisions of the Anti-Terrorism Act in the context of planning to send aircraft to the war with ISIS, only the wrong time is wrong. The international position of Poland, which is currently very weak, is not due to the lack of involvement of our aircraft in the fight against the Islamic State, but to your lack of respect for the European institutions. And no airplanes, no other proposals to fight the Islamic State will raise this position if you do not respect the EU institutions. Therefore, the Modern is not against the mission itself, but we see a serious flaw in the timing of the launch of aircraft into combat operations, as exploratory missions are an integral part of combat activities, not strictly training missions. Therefore, for terrorists it will be a clear signal that we are entering the game, we are teasing them at a time when the security of events planned in the coming months in Poland should be a priority of the government, not of the PR policy that we are currently dealing with. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What is the purpose, political advantage or economic advantage of announcing the decision to send Polish troops to the Middle East before World Youth Day and NATO summit? We believe that this is a very bad time, because reception among the Muslim society is unambiguous: Poland is going to war. Maybe this has not yet reached the public opinion, while the Muslim media are looking very closely at what decisions the Polish government is making when sending Polish soldiers to that area of the world. President Andrzej Duda, who said at the Munich Security Conference on 13 February 2016: "I am as far away as possible from any decision to send Polish soldiers anywhere. What happened all of a sudden that the president changed his mind? [[Voice from the room: They signed it.]] What caused Poland to decide on the eve of World Youth Days and NATO Summit to send soldiers to fight in the Middle East? The Sunday words of Marshal Brudziński about the need to kill terrorists are also interesting. Did this become the war doctrine of Poland? Why were such important issues as the military engagement of Poland not discussed during the meeting of the National Security Council? Especially since the assurances regarding the nature of the mission - supposedly of a training and exploratory nature - are simply false. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to present the position of the National Movement and ask the Minister because the decision to send Polish troops to Iraq is a fatal decision to Syria for several reasons. Firstly, it increases the threat of the Polish state before the NATO summit, before World Youth Day. Secondly, this decision engages us in a conflict in the area where there are present armed forces of a large number of regional and world powers with political interests there, engages us in a conflict when Russian troops are present in Syria, we have had armed incidents involving Turkey, Iran is present militaryly. This is simply putting the Polish state at risk. Thirdly, this is a terrible decision because, contrary to what some government officials say, we are going to war. If you send soldiers to a country where there's a war going on, you go to war. Fourthly, it is a fatal decision, because if - as the Minister suggested - it is part of a deal, a deal where we are to show our zeal in exchange for staying, for the rotating or constant presence of American troops, NATO troops in Poland, it should be part of the debate in the Polish parliament, it should be the subject of a public debate in Poland. This is a very important element, and not everyone in Poland wishes Poland to ride as a bumper on an American car, whether in Central and Eastern Europe or in the Middle East. Fifthly, it is a fatal decision because we do not respect sovereignty. We do not respect the sovereignty of really sovereign states, such as the Syrian Arab Republic, which has its representative office in Warsaw. Poland - experienced by power interventions for several hundred years - should raise the issue of sovereignty, especially at world level. My question is: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did Poland ask a question, asking the Syrian Arab Republic, for example, to fly over the country's territory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u124	Thank you, sir. Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are increasingly getting shocking information about the terrorist attacks that have been carried out or planned. For some time now, threats and threats have come primarily from the Islamic State. Information about terrorists who were impersonating immigrants fleeing war areas has aroused proper concern for us everywhere. Members of the Islamic State have opened the door to our home. The threat therefore concerns not only countries directly affected by the attacks, but also the whole of Europe. Therefore, we should jointly and severally support military missions to be carried out in areas occupied by the so-called. The Islamic State. If we want NATO Member States to help us fight our opponent in a situation of direct threat, we must already express our willingness to cooperate. Minister, when did the Civic Platform and PSL government decide to engage in military missions against the Islamic State? Did Law and Justice criticize these actions? Why is it now that the Civic Platform criticises the Government of Law and Justice before the NATO summit in Warsaw, extremely important for Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u126	Thank you very much. Member Paweł Suski, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u127	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Sending our soldiers into the area of the Islamic State is undoubtedly the worst decision of the Minister of National Defence. The puppet president's confirmation of this doesn't really surprise anyone, because he signs everything without undue delay... [[Mr. President, before the ethics committee...]] [[Voice from the room: This is a scandal.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...but this decision puts people's lives at risk, not just in the case of soldiers. Have you lost your mind?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u128	Please, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u129	You put hundreds of thousands of people at risk during...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u130	Allow me, sir. I ask you, if someone is offended by the speech of the Member, there is an ethics committee, and I ask that you speak in such a way as to remain calm in the Chamber. Thank you. [[Voice from the hall: Poles are offended.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u131	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, you put the lives of hundreds of thousands of people at risk on World Youth Days. Why? Minister, what goals did you want to achieve today, here and now, in this state? As we can hear, the soldiers have already flown, irrevocablely. Who told you to? Before such important parties send soldiers there? Was there any call to the allied states that these four F-16s were immediately necessary there? I get the feeling that sometimes you act like one fanatic wants to tease another fanatic. After all, we are a member of NATO, we have allied obligations, but we have already made enough blood donation. We don't have to prove to anyone how much we need to be involved or involved. It's just an image building. That's all you want to do, to stir things up, and to distract them from the problems in the country you're creating. Ladies and gentlemen! People aren't told the truth. Poles want to know what the real goals are. Why wasn't there a debate? Why do we have to debate in an extraordinary proposal submitted by the Civic Platform, why under such conditions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are to talk about such an important problem as sending our Armed Forces to the Islamic State? [[Time's up.]] You certainly achieved one goal: the threat of people has increased during World Youth Days. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u132	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. There's no envoy. Then it is Mr Marek Sawicki. There isn't any either. Catherine Czochara, the Law and Justice Club. You're an MP. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm asking you right now. [[There's no such thing, Marshal.]] Is it true that the PO-PSL government has committed itself to the United States to direct Special Forces troops to the Middle East? This was intended to contribute to the international coalition which is currently fighting terrorists in Iraq and Syria. Minister! Is it true that as an ally of NATO... [[Voice from the room: What ally?]] ...we are committed to certain activities and that Polish involvement in supporting coalitions against the so-called. Is the Islamic State also an expression of solidarity? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mr President, this form of discussion can take a different form, so let the Members speak as they wish. And right now, please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u135	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Polish Constitution in Art. 146 points to the powers and tasks of the Council of Ministers. One of the most important tasks is to ensure the security of the state, to ensure the security of Poles. In the light of the decision taken by the government, created by the Minister of National Defence and accepted by the President of the Republic, the question arises: Is this decision taken just now, 2 weeks before the NATO summit, a summit to which we have extremely high hopes, whether this decision taken today, a few weeks before World Youth Day, when hundreds of thousands of pilgrims will come to Poland, perhaps even millions of pilgrims, to meetings with the Pope, or whether this decision taken at this moment increases the safety of Poles, or reduces? Poles must get a concrete answer to this question: Does the decision taken during this period increase or reduce safety? Are the heads of NATO Member States at increased risk of bombings, or will there be an increased risk of bombings on World Youth Days? I ask you to answer this question, a specific answer. More risk or less? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the following questions. Why this number of planes? Why four, not two, six, eight? The next question is: Will an offensive weapon be brought with the aircraft, including, for example, Air-ground missiles? I know it was in the Minister's speech that the mandate does not cover offensive activities, but the mandate can always be changed. Therefore, my question is: Does the government rule out the possibility of engaging in combat tasks, precisely offensive, if necessary? And does the government believe that the involvement of our soldiers reduces the likelihood of terrorist attacks on World Youth Days? In response to the interpellation I sent to the Minister of Defence, the corresponding person stated that the likelihood of these attacks was very low. I would like to get an answer to the question whether this is as low a probability as this decision is made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask if this decision has been fully thought through, because it seems that the risk is very big, huge. After making this decision, there appeared on the ISIS portals very dangerous statements, such statements that Poles would crawl and struggle with pain - really this is a threat - next Poles will be, your planes will begin to fall. Did you analyze all these cases? Do you have any idea how big a threat can be? They're not just threats anymore, they're pretty serious, and they're scary about all of us, and you can't ignore that. There's one more thing I'd like to ask you. As I am going to say, the controversial decision to the intentions announced by Zbigniew Kuzmiuk, MEP, that Minister Macierewicz will soon build monuments in the East for making these decisions. Something's not right. Something's unsynchronized. It would be a question perhaps more to the PiS: Is there any idea where these monuments are to be built? Because I read that in the East. [[Please remain serious and present the subject.]] These are the official statements of the MEP. I'd like to know, too. [[Voice from the room: So do we.]] ...because I'm from the east. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u140	Thank you very much. Another speech, Anna Paluch, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u141	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Minister! Will the announcement of the decision to send a group of soldiers and equipment to Iraq and Kuwait and the implementation of this decision improve the negotiating position of the Polish government before and during the NATO Summit in Warsaw? Will the announcement of this decision serve to build the credibility of Poland as a responsible, predictable partner, as an ally who takes up challenges in the care of common security? After all, in the Middle East we expect our allies to support us in ensuring the security of Poles in a growing situation. Mr Siemoniak, isn't it your government that made some commitments to our allies a year ago? [[No.]] Why do you have such a short memory? [[Voice from the room: But good.]] Where do you come from with so much fierceness, crazyness in torpedoing the efforts and actions of the government, which are aimed at ensuring the security of Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Nothing illustrates PiS' approach to one of the most important matters in the modern history of the Polish army better than the absence of the Minister of National Defence. The deadline for intergovernmental consultations, in which the Minister of Defence is taking part today, has been known for a long time, and yet work on information on sending Polish troops to the area of war activities has been designated on the agenda at exactly the same time. Just because the minister's not here today doesn't mean the problem's gone. Today Poland has become a target, today Poland is one of the main topics on the Middle East news portals and today Poland is on the eve of the NATO Summit and the World Youth Days. Did the President, the Prime Minister or the Minister of Defence take the floor on this matter, explain to the Poles why this decision was made? No. But it's being handled by information portals in the Middle East. These illustrations are not optimistic. They show clearly what is the topic of talks in the Middle East, what is discussed and in what context Poland is presented. I would like to ask the question of what kind of sick mind could have come up with the idea that, at the moment at which Poland is, we should be set up, make us an objective. Sometimes you have to make tough decisions, and we haven't avoided it. But now, in addition to changing administration in the United States? This is the basic question: Why now? Why not in two months? The political purpose of your authority seems quite clear. You want to ensure that there are no talks about the Constitutional Court and Polish democracy before the NATO summit. The truth looks really bad for you guys, and somebody's gotta tell you. You sold us for the lack of Western opposition to democracy in Poland, sold our interests and put us in great danger. But you can't destroy democracy anyway. Today you invited terrorists to Poland. Are you talking about refugees? You? Now you've all taken full credit for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The responsibility for our country's safety and this test you failed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u145	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the following question: What has happened recently, that you decide in a very narrow group, without any consultation, to engage Poland officially in a conflict in the Middle East in the fight against jihadists. This is the provocation of terrorists, and this is before important mass events in Poland, especially before World Youth Day. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an official NATO mission. This action is strange, unwise and premature. In my opinion, it is wrong that there is no agreement within the country on the basic principles of security. We do not know what Poles think about sending Polish soldiers to war - because it is war, it is not a drill, it is war - because you make these decisions in the privacy of government offices. Can the government assure us that after making such a decision Poles can feel safe and feel safe? I'd rather hear this obvious safety statement. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, it is very sad, because it is clear that in people who make such strategic decisions in our country, reason sleeps. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Weber, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u147	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll start with a few warm words addressed to the previous coalition, to the previous management of the Ministry of National Defence. Minister, you've made the right decision. I'm talking about this decision to join a coalition fighting the Islamic State. I really mean it: you've made one of the few good decisions. [[Applause]] You had the support of Law and Justice. We did not criticize it, on the contrary, you had the full support of the opposition back then. But your behavior today is the Himalayas of hypocrisy. After all, it was known that we would not be in this coalition only on paper, that we would not be in this coalition only theoretically, that sooner or later we would have to take real action, just like 65 other countries that are associated with this coalition. And we take part in training and reconnaissance missions, we don't fight directly there, we have to emphasize it with all our strength. On the other hand, you, in the fight against the Modern for who is the stronger opposition, as part of building your image of the total opposition, are going to such an unintelligible criticism. And as long as your speech today, Minister, was reasonable and balanced, your colleagues are going through it, and unfortunately Grzegorz Schetyn is leading it. I ask that we join forces, as it was a year and two years ago, in building safe Poland. This is my request. And the question to the Minister is this: When the Civic Platform was making, I will repeat this right decision again, was it passed on to the Poles? If so, how? Was there a debate in the Seym? Were there press conferences on this subject? Did it happen like this, relatively peacefully, fairly quietly, so as not to arouse in society [[♪ The bell ♪]] negative emotions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u148	Thank you. Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I will start by saying that I am very sorry for the fact that the Minister of National Defence of Poland does not have the courage to stand before the High House today and answer the questions of Members. This really shows your attitude towards this matter, it shows your disregard not only for us, Members elected to the Polish Parliament, but above all for Poles, because Poles have the right to know why, why, on what principles You made that decision. This scale of disregard, this arrogance is simply gigantic. At the expense of Polish soldiers you want to repair the terrible image of this government in the international arena. At the expense of Polish soldiers, you want to correct what you've ruined by making a total fuss about the Constitutional Tribunal. The Member who spoke before me spoke about the commitments of the previous government. Mr President, if you have found the documents that such commitments have been made, then it is even worse with you than we thought. You guys can't even read documents like that. You're completely incompetent, completely incompetent. I have a very specific question for the Minister. I say: I am very sorry that there is no Prime Minister Szydło here - but I understand, consultation - but above all that there is no Minister Macierewicz, who has the courage to photograph himself against Polish soldiers, does not have the courage to explain his decisions. What was the mode of making this decision? Was this the way that Antoni Macierewicz got up this morning and thought to himself: I would like to be a hero and therefore send Polish soldiers there? Because that's what it looks like. The day after the Minister of Defence announced this, the government spokesperson said that you had not sent an official letter to the President of the Republic. It wasn't until then that you made these letters, at least that's what the dates show. If this is how you make serious decisions, then you're afraid to think about how prepared we are for World Youth Days. I'm afraid to think about how you want to keep Poles safe. Finally, a quote from the Ombudsman [[♪ The bell ♪]] Government: Our specialists in Iraq will train the staff of the Christian militia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u151	Is that why you're sending planes there? This is ridiculous, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u152	Thank you very much. Mr President, on what issue? [[In corrigendum mode.]] You're welcome, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u153	Thank you very much. [[But there was no name.]] [[Game in the O.R.]] The Member referred to my statement. He didn't say his name, but he was referring to an expression he misunderstood. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me repeat: the obvious thing is that when you decide to fight in this coalition with ISIS, we will have to do this actively - not theoretically, not on paper, but we will have to take action. And we're taking it. Let me repeat: training and reconnaissance. And you cause ghosts, you trigger negative emotions in society. That's not how you build our country's security. This is not how you build the credibility of Poland. That's not how you build a good relationship with other partners. [[You guys know something.]] I repeat: 66 countries participate in this coalition. We've got a lot of noise. We've got a larum here. In our country opposition is not only opposed to the Polish government, but also opposed to the partners from the West. In our country opposition is not only opposed to the Polish government, but also opposed to Poles, to society and to our security. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u155	Don't do this. [[Your marshal, ad vocem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u156	There's no ad vocem. There's no such thing. You're welcome, Mr... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] There's no vote, no vote, no vote, no vote. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please, Mrs... [[Mr, you are delaying, please sit down.]] Mr. President, please sit down politely. There is no ad vocem or: refer. That's not in the rules. There is a possible correction if the statement is misunderstood or misunderstood. [[Madame, I would be happy to listen to you if you say something wise.]] I ask Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club, to speak again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u157	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For starters, I have to tell my previous speaker that the opposition talk was outrageous, really. If you want to conduct a responsible policy, it is certainly not in such a way, not in such words. If this policy is to be responsible, it requires consultation, it requires discussion, because any decisions taken must also be explained to the public, Poles, so that they know why they are being taken, so that they know why they are being taken at such a time and why before such important events, why now. I have a question about this safety of Poles. Since, as we know - and this has already been said many times today - the participation of our soldiers can trigger the reaction of the Islamic State, the first announcements already appear on the web portals, I have a question to the government: Is this decision to send two quotas also accompanied by an increase in expenditure on ensuring the security of citizens in Poland before these two events? I also have a more technical question, because the declaration by the government shows that the main tasks of the soldiers and military personnel headed to Iraq will be to advise and train the staff and the special forces of this country. Such a sentence means that high-class specialists will participate in this continent. I have a question for the Minister: What is the structure of the quota? Will this structure be created only by officers and possibly petty officers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! How important it is to take action on weakening the Islamic State and building world peace, everyone is well aware. The actions of the Law and Justice Government are part of these activities aimed at ensuring global security as well as security for all Poles and Poles. Unfortunately, these actions meet with total criticism of the opposition. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Is it true that the previous government has committed itself to providing ammunition to countries fighting against ISIS, e.g. Jordan? The second question: Is it true that Law and Justice at the time when they ruled POs and PSL never questioned the activities of foreign missions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, a brief comment on the statements made by Members of the Law and Justice that they are seeking good relations with our ally in the United States. In the context of the statements of the Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, who said in his time that the presidential election in the United States is a choice between cholera and plague, it makes a joke. [[Applause]] You can't take care of a good relationship and you're completely lost in it. First of all, when it comes to what is happening right now, the time to decide to send troops to Kuwait and Iraq is bad, and it is very bad, because before World Youth Day and before the NATO Summit. Before World Youth Day - because it increases the risk of retaliation from terrorists. That is why this decision at this point is unfortunate and risky. This decision was also taken in connection with the NATO summit in Warsaw, probably in order to strengthen the Polish Charter in negotiations for a stronger presence of NATO troops in Poland, but we have no guarantee that it will actually give some effect. Allies weren't pushing us to send troops to Kuwait and Iraq right now, which is why we didn't need this decision right now. Secondly, the way in which this decision was taken and the arguments - wrong way and false arguments, without consultation in the Sejm, without debate. It is said that PiS puts the sovereign above everything, as the parliament determines, but only when using the sovereign to destroy the state, rather than when it is necessary to debate the sending of Polish sons into a war zone. Show me a country that sends soldiers to war without Parliament's decision. That's what dictators do who don't care about public opinion. This is a very bad decision, bad for Poland and bad for Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u163	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I would like to express my opinion by saying and thinking that I am a man of culture as a man of culture. I wonder why you are so uncompromising when you send Polish soldiers to war and at the same time cannot deal with refugees, the problem of refugees, which is a very serious global problem at the moment. In 2003, when the war broke out in Iraq, we were all aware that we would bear the consequences - until today. The consequence of this is the creation of the Islamic State. The consequences of the Islamic State and the conflict in the Middle East are hundreds of thousands of refugees who today have nowhere to go. And you are telling us here that sending troops to Iraq and Kuwait is good for Poland. What good? For whose sons? What daughters? What kind of mothers? Is that a good thing? For mothers living in Giżycko, in Ziębice, in Kielce is that good? Why do you not talk to Polish society at such an important time when you decide to send Polish troops to war? The Polish Parliament is a Polish society. Here you have to consult such decisions. You don't ever do that. You have no need to talk to us or conduct a dialogue at all. It's just a scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u164	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Sending troops on a mission, even if it's called training or reconnaissance, can unfortunately mean victims. Why does he decide that now? Who made that decision? I will remind you that at the beginning of this year President Duda said that he was far from making similar decisions, and in the election campaign he assured that there would be no such action. What about all his assurances now? Is the participation of our four planes and a handful of instructors needed at a time when the most powerful campaign against ISIS is underway? The PiS criticized by Washington wants to ease its attitude towards its governments and influence what President Obama will say at the Warsaw Summit in relation to the situation in Poland. My question is, did the government and the president carry out a risk analysis that could accompany the participation of Polish troops in the fight against the Islamic State? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, please, the Modern Club. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u167	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! I think that the emerging new threats in the world, especially those of a terrorist nature, and the obvious need to eliminate these threats away from our borders clearly indicate the need to involve our Armed Forces in line with the expectations of international armed structures, where Polish forces have their place and participation. Moreover, when we want to count on joint and several support from the Alliance for the defence of Polish borders, we cannot look Only through the prism of our own interests and we must be a significant partner in building and preserving peace not only in Europe but also in the world, because I see no other possibility. I wanted to ask the Minister: Were our soldiers on a mission, apart from appropriate preparation in the field of military crafts, which I have no doubt about, also equipped with adequate knowledge of culture, customs, climatic and geographical conditions and local threats? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u169	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to a very important issue, which is particularly important for all Poles - the safety of Poles, Poles and Poland. Why Law and Justice, why the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda made a bad decision, made a big risk decision, sending Polish soldiers to war with the Islamic State and thus created a great threat to Poles, Poland? Because if we go to war with the Islamic State, the Islamic State can go to war with Poland. Minister, has the sovereign agreed with the Law and Justice to threaten our country's security? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u171	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Law and Justice Members claim that when the Platform and PSL coalition were in charge, they supported these actions and those decisions that were taken. And rightly so, but these decisions were made at the right time, these decisions were well thought out, these actions were prepared and took place after consultation and with acceptance of the entire Polish society. The only reason you're doing this out of the blue is because you need it to create a certain image before the NATO summit. So I take this as, let's say, a total PR action. The same thing you do when the European Commission is to address the subject of democracy in Poland - suddenly it turns out that there is a huge action and cooperation in the European Parliament when preparing new legislation. I believe that society should be well informed of such government intentions that this decision should be taken in a better time. I think it is irresponsible that this decision is announced before World Youth Day and before the NATO Summit. I have a question for the Minister. We know what the situation with securing Polish missions was like, especially in Afghanistan. When the Polish troops were sent there, the CSI was practically no longer functioning. Have you provided a very good understanding of the danger that soldiers will be exposed to there? Is there an analysis of the situation and of what will happen to our soldiers in Iraq and Kuwait when they get there? I ask for such information, whether this action is really well prepared. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Pieta, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u173	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have, ladies and gentlemen, previously witnessed this concern for the safety of Poland, for the safety of Poles. We saw the defence budget being cut, we knew, ladies and gentlemen, how the general collection had been abandoned, how the reserve training had been discontinued. There were other issues that are worth paying attention to and worth remembering, e.g. visits by General FSB to the National Security Bureau or return to the service of hundreds of former WSI soldiers. I would like to ask, Minister, if the Minister, or the Ministry of National Defence, is planning to strengthen the Military Intelligence Service, the Military Counterintelligence Service, because the problems that have been growing over the last eight years are still a threat to our security. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. We hear that one of the opposition leaders claims that sending Polish troops to the Middle East is connected with the Constitutional Tribunal, that it is the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to ask if the Ministry of National Defence really has any knowledge here, perhaps some plans, I do not know, to send the Constitutional Tribunal to Fallujah, Tikrit, Baghdad. Thank you. [[You'd like an MP, wouldn't you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u174	Mr Zbigniew Gryglas... No, I'm sorry. I wrote it wrong. Mr Krzysztof Brejza from the Civic Platform club, I see, is heading for the speaker. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 13 February, President Duda said: I am as far away from making any decision to send Polish soldiers anywhere. The worst thing about politics is lying, misleading the public, misusing the trust of Poles in the state. You've lost the respect of Poles, you've made such a roller coaster in recent months. It's a few months' nightmare of destroying relations with our friends, with the United States. And you want Polish soldiers to pay the price for your pride, arrogance? Did the Poles destroy Atlantic relations with the United States? No, PiS did it. Do Poles destroy the rule of law and constitutional order to which Americans are so attached? No, PiS did it. Did the Poles at the media school of culture in Toruń scold the Americans, saying that they would not teach us democracy because they were building their country in the 17th century? No, it was PiS. Was it Poles who insulted Senator McCain's Polish friend? No, it's a PiS. Was it the Poles who insulted the President of the United States Bill Clinton by sending him to psychiatric treatment? No, PiS did it. Did the Poles finally insult the future president of the United States by saying that it would be the president or like the plague or like hell? No, you guys are doing it -- the PiS is doing it. The Poles did not start a war with the whole Western world, from the UN to the Council of Europe. It was the PiS that destroyed Poland's international position. You want to make up for it, sending Polish soldiers is not quite clear where and not quite in what capacity. You trampled on our alliances, our partnership, you use Polish soldiers for short-term propaganda, you pursue not the interests of Poland, but the interests of Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u176	And now Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club. Thank you, Mr Breeza.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u177	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Poland's right state should be a matter of consensus as wide a political force as possible in our parliament. It was a good tradition, and we should stick to that tradition. Undoubtedly, it is up to us to use our Armed Forces abroad. In general, I am in favour of such elements of solidarity within NATO. However, we need to know that Poland has already made a very big effort so far. We are present in many areas, we are present beyond the possibilities of our economy, which is constantly developing, we are present beyond the capabilities of our country. I must say, Minister, I have particular doubts about the use of Polish aviation. We know what the consequences are. - I don't even want to talk about it - he might have a situation if it happened, in connection with this use. So that I ask for information in this respect, exactly what character will this mission be, in particular as regards the aviation of the Polish Armed Forces? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u178	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government of Beata Szydło and the President have decided to support the military coalition and send two military groups to the Middle East. One of these groups is the Special Forces team of 60 soldiers and military personnel. I'd like to know what their job is and if they're at risk of loss of health and life. And I want to ask you one more thing. Does the current, absolutely unfounded criticism from opposition politicians in this matter help the Polish state before the NATO summit or the other way around? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u180	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, as it is - I wanted to address these words to Minister Macierewicz, but unfortunately he was afraid to appear before the sovereign - that in February this year President Andrzej Duda, the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, declares to Poles that he would refrain from new military missions abroad, while Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz, three months later, just before the NATO summit, sends two military quotas to fight against ISIS? How is it that the former Minister of Foreign Affairs in the PiS government calls for a public discussion on the issue of military intervention in the most dangerous area of the world, the submission of relevant information to the Seym opposition, and Macierewicz, without even informing his close surroundings, makes such a generous promise in Brussels? Minister, what were you afraid to hear on July 8th and 9th at the NATO Summit in Warsaw? Or maybe we should reverse the question. In exchange for what words or gestures do you risk once again the predictability of your actions in the eyes of Poles? In the context of your return in action, how much is it worth your declaration that the Poles will not go to the front line? Why are you risking the peace of Polish families with a light hand, at a time when Polish families will welcome young people from all over the world as part of their hospitality on World Youth Day? Where's your credibility? You question our credibility, the Polish state, and this is a crime in the eyes of most Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u182	Thank you very much, Member. We're getting close to the end of questioning time. We have to be done by the hour. 12.55, so by then Members will be asking questions. Please, Mr Artur Soboń, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u183	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, Poland is among the enemies of the so-called. The Islamic State is just not true what we heard today, that it has been since yesterday. No, it's been like this for at least a year, when it's officially called. The Islamic State has put us on the list of its enemies. Therefore, my question to the Minister is: Does strengthening the southern part of Europe, the southern countries of Europe also mean strengthening the security of Poland and achieving our goals in the East? Is Russia - it about anti-terrorist engagement - in this area of the world can it not use this commitment to pressure to break the solidarity of the alliance on our goals at the July summit, the presence of NATO troops in this part of Europe? Finally: Is the fight against the so-called NATO summit itself? The Islamic State, with the Daesh caliphate, will be on the agenda of this summit as a direct commitment to the alliance in this fight? Can this fight ever be won? Is the Islamic State successful today or is it retreating? As part of this fight... If there was no Islamic State, would the world be safer or would the world be more dangerous? These are questions about the security of Poland, not what you said today. Because the state does not want to know anything about the security of Poland, the state wants to create a political crisis around the person of the Minister of National Defence at the worst moment for Poland and certainly not in the interests of Poland, but in the interests of our enemies. [[Applause]] [[You're confirming it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u184	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mrs Ewa Szymańska, club Law and Justice. [[There isn't.]] [[I'm calling your marshal because we started with a 15-minute delay...]] No, it's time counted, it's all taken into account. So that if you do not have a Member, I ask the next person on the list and we close on it. Mr Stawiarski, please. That concludes the list of questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The platform criticises the decision to support the coalition against the Islamic State. Isn't that the time? In fact, you don't even know what you're talking about. Meanwhile, Minister Siemoniak spoke on the Polish Radio in January 2015 that the Polish army gained the most experience in the Balkans, in Iraq and Afghanistan. Over 20,000 went through this last mission. Polish soldiers. Then Deputy Prime Minister Semoniak, among others. pointed out that another mission under the code name "Resolute Support" had begun in Afghanistan. He said that NATO countries would continue to support local authorities in their investigation into democracy at European level. You said then, quote, "Too much trouble and blood we put into earlier tasks so we wouldn't be there now." In Iraq and other areas occupied by the Islamic State, are there no visible signs of the struggle and blood of Polish soldiers? Or should we just forget it? Should we forget the Polish soldiers who died in the sands of the Middle East? Is that what the Civic Platform wants? We are to allow terrorists from the Islamic State to decapitate Christians, jasis and other opponents despite previous efforts of Polish soldiers? The problem of radical Islamic terrorism will not get past Poland and we must all realise that. The world must get a clear signal from Poland, on which side we stand in the fight against global terrorism, because when we find ourselves in a situation where we expect help, then there will be a debate in other parliaments, why help Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u186	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Semoniak. Mr Siemoniak will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Unfortunately, we have not heard from the government's representative the answers to the opposition's most important questions. I don't even have a special grudge against Minister Szatkowski, who I respect. He was put in a very difficult situation by his superiors, Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Minister Antoni Macierewicz, after the questions we had asked, and they concerned, for example, the issues of the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs in view of the fact that at this moment Poland's active involvement in coalition activities against the Islamic State will be announced. We have also not learned why social communication is so unprofessional in this regard. It is some kind of communication disaster that from the media statements of the Minister of Defence the Polish public learns that the Prime Minister and the Minister on this subject do not say more widely that there is no special conference during which it would be explained why we are doing this, and when there is an opportunity to speak on this subject in the Sejm, there is no President of the Council of Ministers or the Minister of National Defence or the Minister of Foreign Affairs. These are really very serious things, and I really don't understand why this is happening in such a way. It is not true that previous governments have committed themselves to anything. Of course, Poland supported the coalition politically and this was the subject of the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. That's what I was talking about. On the other hand, from political support to active engagement there is a very large distance and this decision has never been taken by our governments. So, please, by acting especially in such a way that at such a moment you unprofessionally make this decision, do not blame your predecessors, because we knowingly did not make that decision, and that is what I was talking about. We have increased our commitment to Afghanistan, we have decided to play the role of the Framework State in relation to the point, and this, in our view, in the fullest way and with the recognition of allies, reflects our commitment to NATO, so please do not use such arguments in this public debate. In this communication disaster you go further, because in the documents that speak of the President's signature, the President's decision, we are talking about the fact that our specialists are going to train Iraq's armed forces, today we learn from the Ministry of National Defence's spokesperson that our specialists will train the staff of the Christian militia. So, please, I appeal for much more professionalism in action, for the courage of Prime Minister Beata Szydło to be ready to stand before Poles and explain to them exactly why now, what we decide exactly and what the consequences will be, and whether the Home Minister and Head of the Internal Security Agency, strengthened by new laws which the state by parliament has pushed through, guarantee that this decision, taken at this moment, is not a risk to Poles and Poles. It's not the opposition's action that we don't like. We are talking about this with people, our voters, also your voters, certainly asking and we all owe it to them as a parliament, and you, in particular, as governing, very reliable information and great transparency in these matters. It is really serious if the government, the Polish state, the president takes responsibility for the life and health of Polish soldiers. We do not have - I repeat - complexes when it comes to Polish engagement in various places of the world, earlier in Iraq, Afghanistan, Kosovo, and no one in NATO ever accused us of Poland being a little involved country. Political support is not little, political support is a very clear voice. And so we have been fighting terrorism in Afghanistan for years, as we have been fighting terrorism within the framework of the Islamic State, so please do not think that the only possible action is to send Polish F-16s or special forces. Our Air Force has been involved in the Air Police mission and our specialists for years, rightly enjoying very high ratings, in Afghanistan, and previously serving in other countries. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u188	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr. Tomasz Szatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to address in a concise way the questions that have been asked by Members of Parliament, and I hope that I will be able to address all the points. First of all, I will try to refer once again to the fundamental question about the justification of Polish participation in Operation Inherent Resolve. In my earlier speech, I tried to emphasize the importance of ally solidarity, and this is not an empty password from our allies. Once again, at the summit in Warsaw Poland will gain a breakthrough in its security, this is a very important moment in the history of independent Poland after 1989. The second of these statements - indeed, as a country that already has an increasing military and economic potential, we also have a certain responsibility for the political and humanitarian situation in our further neighbourhood. One of our fellow Members referred to these tragic images that we have all had the opportunity to watch on the screens of our televisions. It seems to me that the responsible state must also play a role in this type of action. On the other hand, the next thread, which was scrolling, is that Poland already participates in a sufficient manner in missions outside its own country. I would like to stress that the management of the Ministry of National Defence does not rush to close the participation of Polish soldiers in operations away from the territory of the country. We make such decisions after very comprehensive consideration of all pros and cons. But there is a measure of this commitment, a measure of what we get from the Alliance, and a measure of what we put in. Indeed, between 2002 and 2010 Poland has been very active in foreign missions. They were thousands of soldiers in Iraq, thousands of soldiers in Afghanistan. This participation sometimes, you can say, has also developed a programme of modernization of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and we have not always received adequate support from allies in the field of strengthening the eastern flank. This situation is completely different at the moment. Poland receives - once again - a groundbreaking strengthening of its security in the East. On the other hand, our participation in foreign operations has fallen to the lowest level since 1992. Since 2008, the participation of the Polish army in foreign operations has steadily decreased. The current average for NATO countries is 3 The size of their armed forces. Poland currently participates in foreign operations at the level of 0.4% of the Armed Forces. Let me say this: as a result of a noticeable decline in our activity in foreign operations, even in the mission in Libya, I do not want to comment on the validity of the decision, because there were indeed arguments for and against, but Poland also informally ceased to be one of the so-called members. quintes, that is, countries that are first consulted within the North Atlantic Council. So there's a connection between these issues. There was also a question about earlier decisions, earlier commitment, earlier communication with allies. The information I have is the following, I'll say it again. In January 2015, Minister of Foreign Affairs Grzegorz Schetyna declared the participation of Polish Special Forces in the Middle East mission to speak with the Secretary of State Mr Kerrym. I think that this declaration is also linked to the declaration by Prime Minister Semoniak, who said on 8 January 2015, referring to this meeting, that in the coming months new forms of Polish support for the fight against the Islamic State will be known. The Prime Minister also then referred to the conversation between Prime Minister Kopacz and President Obama when these issues were also discussed. I believe that they could also be raised, but I know for a fact that Minister Schetyna has made such commitments. In this situation, before the summit in Warsaw, when for many months we sought a very important strengthening of the security of Poland, when we are very close to achieving this success when it comes to showing that we are a solid ally, this was the last moment to make this decision. I will also refer to my superior's indicated absence. Once again, Minister Antoni Macierewicz is present at an intergovernmental consultation in Berlin. These consultations relate to the 25th anniversary of the signing of the Neighbourhood Treaty and mutual cooperation. I think that if he were not in Berlin, he would be criticized for ignoring an important ally and a partner of Poland. [[Voice from the room: Good contacts with the Germans...]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Especially the Minister.]] I'll also refer to... I mean, with regard to the debate on the National Security Council and the public debate, I do not want to speak on behalf of the President, I have no authority to do so. Let me just say that the government's request to the President for the participation of the Polish Army in these operations was received after the meeting of the National Security Council. I think it might have something to do with the National Security Council meeting. Another point is the public debate. Indeed, the government considered that, in view of the non-violent nature of the armed forces' participation in this matter, a debate before this decision was not necessary. In 2015, as far as I know, there were also no debates. As far as the preparation of the mission through the service is concerned, yes, we have actually carried out multiple analyses, there have been meetings with military and civilian services. This diagnosis, these analyses affected such, not other locations of Polish quotas. We have chosen the most safe and comfortable place for our soldiers. Was there any pressure from allies? I will say this: in December 2015, Secretary of Defense Carter sent a letter to Minister Macierewicz asking for support in the operation against the Islamic State. This request was also met by the French as a result of the attacks in Paris. So that I would like to say that our decision is the answer not only to the request of the American and other allies, but also to the request of the French, and I would like to make that very clear. As regards the level of threat to Poland as a result of the relocation of these quotas, in the opinion of the Internal Security Agency it will not change and will remain at the same low level. The question of training quotas for the specifics of the Middle East. Yes, quotas are trained in so-called. cultural and religious awareness, they also receive appropriate training in the Middle East. Our special forces were also present there earlier, they know the specifics, they have many partners. Why four F-16s? Planes shall carry out one daily reconnaissance operation by one reconnaissance aircraft with a storage tank and one aircraft of shields. They'll do it alternately. It is a minimum quota to be able to carry out this type of task in a fluid manner and at the same time not to affect the country's fighting potential. At the same time, I would like to point out that the participation of such and not other quotas, such and not other capacities in this operation, on the one hand, is linked to the fact that we are significantly increasing the capacity of the coalition. This is noticed by our allies, not only by the United States, also by Germany, by the Danes, by many other countries with whom I have recently had the opportunity to talk. On the other hand, in the event of a sudden deterioration in our country's security situation, this quota can easily be transferred back to national territory and the relevant plans have already been prepared. The question was also whether there was a connection between the South and the East, the situation in these areas, the role of Russia. Of course, there is no full sign of equality, but we are aware that the migration crisis has some sources outside the Middle East itself. There is also a problem, a problem of perception. Well, some of our allies, at least some of their public opinion, take Russia as a constructive factor. In this context, it is also quite important that Poland is not available in a visible way. If we are seeking our security, to strengthen our security by allies, we must make our contribution more visible. Question about Syria and possible consultations. Mr President, the Polish quota has no mandate to operate in Syria. The Polish quota will limit its activities to the territory of Iraq. There was also a question about the Constitutional Tribunal. Luckily, I'm not responsible for these issues. All I can say is that, as part of the discussions with the representatives of the defence departments of allies, this issue has never been raised. Security issues are kind of like [[♪ The bell ♪]] A separate segment of conversations and they were never connected. I'm almost done, Marshal. That was actually the last of my lines. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u190	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the Foundation, they. Kazimierz Pułaski Polska should be a more active participant in international processes related to the development of strategies and policies for the prevention and resolution of armed conflicts. For many years Poland has been building its position and prestige in UN peace operations. The Polish Republic should continue this tradition as well as promote closer cooperation between the UN and the EU and NATO. The Republic of Poland should return to a group of countries sending soldiers for peace missions, as well as involve special forces or engineering or logistics support. Does the Ministry of National Defence identify with this direction Poland's participation in the strategy for the resolution of armed conflicts? Is the order of President Andrzej Duda to send two military quotas to support the global coalition in the fight against the so-called. The aim of the Islamic State is to carry out exploratory tasks and to train the service, or can this, as the critics of this decision claim, be a sign of the military commitment of the Polish contingent? Is it true that the experience gained during such missions will not replace any simulators, exercises or maneuvers, and operating in an intelligence system with NATO allies can bring only benefits: from strengthening and improving cooperation to accessing intelligence? Has Poland previously engaged in the global fight against terrorism and sent combat components to Iraq and Afghanistan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u192	We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Commission's draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of the River of Vistula (prints Nos 439 and 481). I ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee. You don't have an MP? I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 12 h 13 min 14]] I'm reopening the session. We're looking at item 15. I would like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the Commission's draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of the Vistula River in print No. 439. On 12 April this year, the committee took a resolution initiative on this matter. A request for this initiative by the Sejm was submitted by the Social Committee for the Obstetrics of the Year of the Vistula River in 2017, supported by the Vistula cities and organisations which adopted the relevant resolutions in this regard. The secretary-general of the committee - whom I welcome because he visited us and is at the gallery - presented the justification in which he spoke, among others.: Our committee has been working for several years to build a good Vistula river brand together. This is an overriding good for us, regardless of our profession or beliefs about the vision of the further development of the river. We are a social initiative of many organisations, institutions, as well as public and private people associated with the Vistula, representing very diverse environments - from mariners, hydrologists, scientists, professionals to environmental, tourism, social, cultural or educational activities, but there are also creators, artists and ordinary Vistula lovers. We build our activities on the basis of a common denominator, which is the rich historical and cultural heritage of the queen of Polish rivers and awareness of its unique value. I will mention the words from the homily of Pope John Paul II delivered in Gdynia in 1987: Vistula - the river of all Polish lands, the river of our history. For centuries - before the name of Poland appeared in the annals of history - it already rolled its waters from the Carpathians, from the Silesian Beskids, where it has its sources, until now. A river, a silent witness to the life of generations, their birth and dying. Their creative efforts related to the foundation of everything that Poland represents. Their struggles, sometimes struggles to death and life, to maintain and secure what is their own, which is a common acquis, a common heritage. High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Communications, after first reading and considering the draft resolution at its meeting on 12 May 2016, requests the adoption of the following draft resolution by the High Sejm annexed to the report: On the 550th anniversary of the first free flow the Polish Sejm pays tribute to generations of compatriots who, thanks to the Vistula and based on it, built the identity and power of the Polish State. As a result of the provisions of the Second Toruń Peace Poland regained control over the entire sailing cycle of the Vistula. The year 1467 became the first year of free sailing, starting the greatest years of Polish history. The Vistula River and its river basin enabled economic growth during the Golden Age period, making Poland a European political, military and economic power. Vistula - Queen of Polish Rivers, symbol of Polishness and patriotism - is our natural and cultural heritage. This unique river, for centuries so diversely shaped by nature and people, now requires sustainable development. It is a civilization challenge for us - it needs a thoughtful strategy and courageous, far-sighted actions. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, appreciating the importance of the Vistula in the life of our nation and state, announces the year 2017 with the Year of the Vistula River. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u194	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anita Czerwińska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of the Vistula River. The river Vistula, the queen of Polish rivers, has been a symbol of Polishness and patriotism for centuries, and is also a symbol of inexhaustibility and freedom. 5 August 1934 at 3 p.m. 10 streets of Warsaw more than 3 thousand. Poles with flagship posters on the Kościuszko Coast on the Vistula River, where the weddings of white and red flags decorated with the sign of the rod from the various districts of the Polish Union in Germany took place. The rod mark depicting the course of the Vistula river along with the marked Krakow was a symbol of failure to give in to Germanization and swastika. Today in free Poland Poles, appreciating its beauty and wanting an agreement on the sustainable development of the river of all those for whom the Vistula is important: watermen, lovers of Vistula nature, sailors and citizens who appreciate its values and historical values, pay its due honors. By listening to the words of St. John Paul II, also supporting the citizens' desire to honor the Vistula and appreciating its historical, cultural and natural heritage, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u196	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u197	Mrs. Marshal! Vistula, queen of Polish rivers, symbol of Polishness and patriotism, is our natural and cultural heritage. This unique river over the centuries, so diversely shaped by nature and people, now requires sustainable development. It is a civilization challenge for us, it needs a thoughtful strategy and courageous, far-sighted actions. The draft announcement of the year 2017 The Vistula River is supported by non-governmental organisations, which have been working for many years to improve the roadway of inland waterway transport in the Vistula River and activate local authorities from areas located on the Vistula River for cooperation. This project is rightly supported by the authority of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland today. The Civic Platform Club obviously supports this project, but let the establishment of the Year of the River Vistula draw attention to the fundamental problems of river management. The Vistula and its basin are one organism. There is currently a lack of coordination in the management of this organism. Water management is under the responsibility of independent regional water management departments. The flood shafts and some of the other regulatory works are responsible for the regional management of water equipment melioration under the Marshals of voivodships. IWT authorities are responsible for the surveillance of shipping. Several institutions are involved in the fishing industry. Regional Nature Conservation Directorates are responsible for nature conservation. The division of competences between Regional Environmental Directorates and Regional Water Management Boards is unclear and vague. The biggest and strongest user of Vistula waters is now energy, which does not matter to other river users and has no significant counterweight. Neither the Regional Water Management Boards nor the Regional Environmental Directorates have the courage to oppose the self-confidence of energyists, and negative decisions often result in sanctions against the Regional Environmental Directorates' Directors, whose attachment is too weak. Energy companies are used to the fact that water in Poland is free and without restrictions, they do not invest in any system of saving or closed cooling circuit. An example is the power plant in Połańc, which is expanding, but does not build a closed water circulation or any system that increases cooling efficiency, but only blocks the river with pneumatic jazz, taking all water to cool. Currently, shipping is closed in Pochań as early as 10 June and will probably not be opened until late autumn. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The power plant also dumps warm water that threatens the ichtyofauna in Vistula. Therefore, let this year 2017, when we celebrate the Year of the Vistula River, be also the year of administrative decisions that will help make the Vistula more accessible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u198	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Piotr Apel, the Kukiz Club15. Are you an MP? There isn't. I invite Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the draft resolution, I would like to inform you that the Modern will vote in favour of the resolution. I happen to live in Toruń, which is on the Vistula River. It is a very close river to me. It is the longest in Poland, but also the longest irregular river in Europe, which makes it very unique on a scale of the entire European continent. The establishment of 2017 of the Vistula River should pay greater attention not only to us politicians, officials, environmentalists, business representatives and NGOs, but also to all citizens on the issue of protecting the river and to the urgent needs and challenges facing it. And they really concern all the rivers, not just the Vistulas. In our view, there are three: reduction of pollution, regulation of economic and river transport issues and action to increase tourism attractiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u200	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Urszula Pasławska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u201	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party Club will support the resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of the Vistula River. I would like to put my position and position of the club in writing on this matter, and use my time for some reflection, which accompanies us, Members of the Polish People's Party, with the procedure of resolutions of this type. When we all decided six months ago in the Sejm to increase the number of patrons from three to five, then we all unanimously decided that each club should have the opportunity to speak on this matter, each club should have the opportunity to pass a resolution that will be considered so that, in accordance with and in conclusion, as has so far been the case in all terms, we could establish patrons of the next year. What a surprise it was when, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, which followed these resolutions, Madam President took a break and thus refused to allow many resolutions to be passed. I wanted to draw attention to the resolution of the Polish People's Party, which proposed that next year be the Year of Mikołajczyk. I would also like to draw attention to the resolution which Members have tabled over the party divisions, also your Marshal has signed this resolution, many Members of Law and Justice, actually all clubs have signed this resolution so that next year will be the year of recognition of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. Ladies and gentlemen! Protestants in Poland, all Protestant religions, look at the Sejm today and see how they have been ignored. It is simply, I would say, indecent and dishonest, and so far this has not happened. Madam President, I'm talking to you. Ma'am, you're leaving. She's on the phone. I hope this doesn't happen again. So far we have made similar decisions, similar resolutions by acclamation, by consensus. I'd like to see that happen next year, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u202	Thank you very much, Member. No one asked me to ask you a question. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Communications on the Commission's draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 in the Year of Joseph Conrad-Korzeniowski (prints Nos 437 and 480). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by Joseph Conrad-Korzeniowski, prints Nos 437 and 480. It is an initiative of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage fully supported and taken over by the Committee on Culture. At its meeting on 12 May, the committee, in the course of a concerted work of many Members, introduced a number of amendments which, in substance and stylistically, strengthened the content of the draft resolution. It is worth recalling that Józef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski's coat of arms Nałęcz was born on December 3, 1857 and that is why the 160th anniversary of his birthday is the most appropriate time to devote to him a number of activities which will be supported by the proposed resolution of the Polish Sejm both in Poland and in various parts of our globe. Józef's parents, writer Apollo Korzeniowski and Eve of Bobrowski, were independent activists sent to Siberia in 1861. Uncle Józef, Stefan Bobrowski, was one of the leaders of the January Uprising. Young Joseph left for Marseilles in 1874, where he took up the work of a sailor. Having problems as a Russian possessor, he moved to England and served there in the British merchant Navy. In 1886 he obtained the rank of captain and British citizenship. From now on he could, among others. command by cruises on its own. At that time, he began writing his first literary works. Finally, at the beginning of 1894, he completed the work of a Navy officer and settled permanently in England. In novels and stories written in English, such as: The madness of Almayera, Lord Jim, the core of darkness, Nostromo, the secret agent, or the shadow streak, included universal ethical reflections. His psycho-moral novels can be described as reflections on moral issues in the context of extreme living and working conditions of people - sailors during long and long ocean voyages or deep into continents. A study of Joseph Conrad's work is carried out, among others. international Joseph Conrad Society, as well as Polish scientists, among others. Zdzisław Najder. Currently at the request of Poland he deals with the great legacy and figure of Józef Korzeniowski UNESCO, too. Conrad is considered one of the most outstanding Polish and English writers. Filmed, among others. His novels and stories, such as Lord Jim, the duel, the kernel of darkness, in Poland it was the Blur of Shadow. In addition, the famous adaptation of the Kernel of Darkness is the time of the apocalypse. During World War I, especially the Polish-Bolshevik War, Józef Korzeniowski spoke about Polish matters. He called on Europe and the world to support the Republic against Soviet Russia. In 1920 he sought financial support from the United States for the Bolsheviks of his first and beloved homeland. The great writer and moralist died on August 3, 1924, in Bishopsbourne, England. I present the content of the proposed draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of 2017 with the Year of Joseph Conrad-Korzeniowski. On December 3, 2017, the anniversary of the birth of Józef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski - Joseph Conrad - son of Polish patriots, exiles from Siberia, a great writer worthy of Polish and world culture. Conrad's writing achievements make him one of the world's most famous creators, who introduced values growing from Polish identity into world culture. It takes the undisputed position of the classic modern literature, which has changed the face of novel prose. He was a universal writer, taking on important topics for the Old Continent. More than 100 years ago, he outlined the vision of a Europe without borders as the basis for lasting peace between European peoples. The influence of Joseph Conrad's work on contemporary literature is timeless, and his works, among others. 'Lord Jim', 'The Blur of Shadow', 'The Kernel of Darkness' or 'The Secret Agent', have forever entered the canon of reading. The writing work of Joseph Conrad, which was created under the influence of Polish romantic literature, contains universal ethical values. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, convinced of the special importance of the writer's work and personality, establishes the year 2017 as the Year of Joseph Conrad-Korzeniowski. Once again, I thank the Members of the Committee on Culture and Media for their creative commitment to the current draft resolution. It is also obvious that the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage will prepare a programme of next year's celebrations as Conradowski year, which will be an opportunity for many cultural projects in Poland, the United Kingdom, the United States, France and many other countries. Of course, the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously recommends that the High House adopt this draft resolution on Józef Korzeniowski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u204	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Joann Lichock, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Next year, as it has already fallen here in this room, 160 years have passed since the birth of Józef Konrad Korzeniowski, known in the world as Joseph Conrad, one of the greatest writers writing in English. The author of Lord Jim, Typhon, Nostromo is read as a marine writer, but also as a creator who perfectly predicted the moral problems of the 20th century. In fact, he described fascism in the dark core, and in the secret agent, the scale and blunt violence of terrorism. In each of his novels or narratives, there is an ethical attitude - honor, loyalty to principles, or a fall resulting from their failure to comply with them. He knows his name, also thanks to film adaptation, the whole Western world. Thus he was perceived by Jarosław Iwaszkiewicz: Sometimes when I'm sitting in a port bar, By all the reminders and adventures of my knowledge, By the colors of women - by them as by the daggers The delirious sea color, smell and secrets - Through all the famous islands and bays in the sun, All the meadows of Albion, fog, masts, clouds, I remember the day - when my father bitten his nails with grief To the Żytomier, yearning for the snowy Voloba. Iwaszkiewicz was right. That was, in fact, the most important feature of this writer. It grew out of the January Uprising. Joseph Conrad is the son of Apollo Korzeniowski and Ewelina of Bobrowski, engaged in preparations for the January Uprising, sent to Volova to Siberia, where little Konrad, four years old, went with them of course. The first commonly known manuscript of Konrad is a text written by the hand of a few-year-old boy on the back of a photograph taken on his exile:. Dear Granny, who helped me poor daddy cookies to send to prison, grandson, Pole catholic and nobleman Konrad. What else could the son of such parents, steadfast in the fight for Polishness, and nephew Stefan Bobrowski, the first leader of the national government during the January Uprising? My mother died in exile, my father was released from death soon after. Moscow barbaric violence destroyed the world of Polish patriotic intelligence with power and consequence. Young, teenage Korzeniowski is leaving. He threatens him as a subject of Russian incarnation for many years in the army. He becomes a sailor, sails first on French ships, then English ships. After 20 years of adventure, he settles in England, becomes a writer. Critics admire his composition of sentences, the construction of the plot. He himself says this: English critics - after all, I am indeed an English writer - speaking of me, they always add that there is something in me that is incomprehensible, incomprehensible, elusive. One of you is elusive, you can grasp, you can understand. This is Polishness - he spoke in an interview given to Marian Dąbrowski for the Illustrated Tygodnik in 1914. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just a minute, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u206	A minute isn't a minute, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u207	It was the writer who grew up from the generation of the January Uprising, such as Sienkiewicz, Rydziewiczówna or Żeromski. He tells us that what is elusive can capture one of you. This is the task, as one of the most outstanding experts in Korzeniowski's life and works, was rightly noted by Professor Stefan Zabierowski, who gave us the writer: deeper, because through the prism of Polishness, reading his works. So let's talk about Józef Konrad Korzeniowski, about Joseph Conrad, the heir...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u208	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u209	...our knight's tradition, whose values he has brought to the world. The Law and Justice Club supports the resolution on the establishment of 2017 by Joseph Conrad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u210	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask you, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u211	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I may not even be strong enough to overcome these delights, and that's a good sentence about Joseph Conrad-Korzeniowski, because he certainly deserves all that has been said here. It has already been mentioned here that the committee quite unanimously, i.e. not unanimously enough, but unanimously, she has accepted this candidacy and also my club, which I have the honour to represent, the Civic Platform Club, will vote for it. This is indeed a character worth noticing and worth reminding if anyone forgets. However, I would like to draw attention to two points that have surprised me personally, and - I admit - also in the committee's work I have missed my attention. The year of Joseph Conrad-Korzeniowski was announced by UNESCO in 2007. Poland has been very active in the celebration, even though it was an international scale. All Polish celebrations took place under the patronage of President Lech Kaczyński and we really did a lot at that time to remind this character and her works, indeed excellent. In fact, the Ministry of Culture, because this Ministry of Culture was the initiator of this proposal, could draw attention to this. Perhaps, because we only have to choose five patrons, it would turn out that we have another one that is equally worth it. And I'm going to say yes, I don't want to do this here, but because we've been doing this here for a long time, in this Seym, these patronages, and it was much harder, because the Seym only had three candidates, I think it's somehow managed to lead to such a consensus. And perhaps for the first time this year, four of the applications were not considered at all. I'll tell you, it hurts a lot, because despite the trouble and the difficulties, we've tried to make sure it never happened. And I say, I do not depreciate the character of Joseph Conrad-Korzeniowski, because of course we will vote in favour, but I don't even want to talk about Mikołajczyk or reformation anymore, but I want to say that among the four candidates that were not presented at all, there was also the creator of the Esperanto Ludwik Zamenhof, perhaps it is worth reminding Poland and the world. But from my point of view, there was also a man of culture - Erwin Axer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And to tell you the truth, if we were looking at all the candidates, I don't know if Axer would have won in my vote with Joseph Conrad-Korzeniowski, but perhaps with other candidates as well. So please don't make that mistake again. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u212	Thank you very much, Member. Mr. Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the 500th anniversary of the Reformation would be a beautiful gesture for Polish Protestants, although many Poles do not imagine that you can be a Protestant in Poland. Few people know that our Adam Małysz is Lutheran. It's a shame it didn't happen. Kukiz Club15 will of course support the resolution of the Polish Sejm on the 160th anniversary of the birth of our and British great writer, a special writer. I would not like to quote here Conrad's biography except for his outstanding achievements, which at least shocked me as a man. Of course, this shocking story is the core of darkness, it has always been of particular interest to me. It is such a journey to the depths of a man who must recognize what he is capable of, when evil is born and how evil is born. And I must admit to you that in preparing for this speech, I thought that another reminder that there is a Nałęcz coat of arms, that he had been removed from Poland, that he had failed in junior high school, it would be a little bit of information which is actually repeated from this speaker, although I am browning Mrs Lichocka, who has fantastically prepared these justifications. And I would like to refer once again to the Kernel of Darkness, because based on the Kernel of Darkness, a very beautiful novel by Llosa Vargas was created - Celta's dream - who has not read, I encourage - how people from the West treated democracy very often, that is, how they murdered - is this famous murder of almost 20 million people in the Belgian Congo. And it occurred to me as if the January hearing of the Prime Minister, where - I quote Max Kolonka - the former Belgian Prime Minister, the Polish Prime Minister, was interrogating the Prime Minister of the Polish Government on democracy. And I have not heard the former Belgian Prime Minister Verhofstadt apologize for 20 million deaths in the Belgian Congo, murdered with his hands cut off. I have to tell you that there are even more funny things about the nose stick I've decided to use here. In 1958, in Belgium, in Brussels, those who taught us democracy had a zoo, and in this zoo were next to the animals black people as exhibits. You can see pictures like this on the Internet. And therefore perhaps it is worth to say and show that this year of Conrad-Korzeniowski, the outstanding Polish and British Navy, is an important year, year [[♪ The bell ♪]] 2017. His genius Orwell said he was so brilliant because women don't understand him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u214	Thank you very much, sir. I wanted to welcome young people and guests from Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, who are currently staying in the Seym and sitting at the gallery. They came at the invitation of Mr Michał Cieślak. We welcome you very much. Now I invite Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not going to quote Joseph Conrad's biography because here Mrs. Lichocka has already quoted it. Rather, I would like to draw attention to a thread from his work, which has not been quoted and which is very important these days. Joseph Conrad was also called Juliusz the Slovak tropics by many people. We know Lord Jim, the core of darkness. I think most of us, I hope, have read these books. But there's a sketch from 1905 called Autoocracy and War, and in this sketch, Joseph Conrad foretold not only the rapid outbreak of World War I, but also a very clear vision, probably for the first time, of a Europe without borders. He thought that only such a Europe could reduce the danger of imperial aggression and hatred, and only such a Europe, built on foundations less fragile than material interests, can ensure lasting peace between the peoples of our continent. I think this is very important with regard to what is happening in Europe right now. Joseph Conrad already 100 years ago understood what we are trying to teach today, especially the Government of Law and Justice, the fact that the European Community is the best safeguard for all our rich and diverse national cultures. On the eve of a referendum in the UK, in which the British say whether they want to belong to the European Union or not, talking about Joseph Conrad, about a person who has put a great deal of emphasis on the community in Europe, is symbolic. I think it's worth talking about today, too. Modern, of course, will support this initiative, although we very much regret that no opposition club initiative related to commemoration in 2017 has been adopted by the Law and Justice, but this demonstrates the culture of Law and Justice, i.e. the lack of dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u216	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Urszula Pasławska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u217	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the resolution of the Sejm concerning the establishment of 2017 in the Year of Joseph Conrad-Korzeniowski. 160 years ago, on 3 December 1857 he was born in Berdyczów Conrad-Korzeniowski, a writer known as Joseph Conrad, author, among others. The cores of darkness, Lord Jim. Joseph Conrad-Korzeniowski is the son of Polish patriots, a man of three cultures, a great English and Polish writer, a European. Both Korzeniowskis, mother and father were sentenced to exile to Volova in northern Russia. When the boy was eight years old, his mother died. My father was fired when he was already terminally ill. The orphan Konrad grew up in Lviv for many years. When he was 17, he was sent to France, where he started working as a sailor. He was an immigrant, not by choice, but by necessity. As a subject of the Russian and son of the convicts, he was obliged to serve for many years in the Tsar army. In 1878 he was denied an extension of his passport and could not serve in the French Navy. He moved to British. Then he began his career as a British sailor with a captain's diploma. It was an extraordinary career for the Pole. The fact that Korzeniowski's name is written in 13 different ways shows what problems he had with his origins. Even before leaving Poland and going to the sea, young Conrad-Korzeniowski announced that he would be a great writer. Years later, he claimed to have been an accident. In 1895, when the six-penny edition of his first novel "Almayer's Madness," he hesitated to issue it under his own name. He proposed his literary aunt's signature in the world, and he himself accepted the name Kamudi, which in Malay means "Stere." Conrad's writing work makes him one of the world's most famous creators associated with Polish culture. It takes the undisputed position of the classic modern literature, which has changed the face of novel prose. Addressing topics important to the old continent He is a universal writer who, in those days, outlined the vision of a Europe without borders as the basis for lasting peace between the peoples of Europe. The influence of Conrad's work on contemporary literature has a timeless dimension and, as I said, his books [[♪ The bell ♪]] moral and ethical values. Of course, the club will support this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u218	Thank you very much, Member. No one's asked questions. The committee rapporteur, Mr Babinetz, also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u219	Thank you very much, Marshal. I just, referring to some threads of the discussion, want to say that although 10 years ago there were commemorative celebrations of Józef Korzeniowski, reminding his works, it is not an obstacle to remind not only Poland, but above all the world that Józef Konrad Korzeniowski is a Pole, he is an outstanding representative of Polish literature, also English literature. And it is this fact that he acted in the area of English, that he is a writer, a creator known in the world, that is a great chance, that gives Poland the opportunity to organize celebrations and show during next year's celebrations what is wonderful in our homeland. Furthermore, I would like to thank all Members very warmly for their very interesting speeches. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u220	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski (prints Nos 491 and 507). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of the year 2017 by the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. This draft, the initiative of the Group of Members of the Law and Justice, was discussed at one of the next meetings on 12 May this year and was then adopted, with a positive opinion from the Committee on Culture and Media - 14 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 3 abstentions. Marshal Józef Piłsudski is a character that I think does not need to remind anyone, to bring them closer. If we think about Poland's independence, then the first association is the commandant, Marshal Józef Piłsudski, the man who organized the independence activity before World War I, then led the First Brigade, you can say, the Polish Legions who later co-created the Polish Army. He was one of the creators of the victory over the Bolsheviks in the 1920 war, which saved Poland and Europe from Bolshevikism, from communism, from Soviet Russia. Finally, he is the man who created the vision of cooperation - whether he recreated this vision, the old Jagiellonian vision - of the nations of the Intermarriage, nations and countries of Central and Eastern Europe, so as to protect these countries, these countries, these nations from the threat from the East. What is important, it was also a symbol for several generations of Poles during the Second World War, under the German-Soviet occupation, then German, and later for several decades of communist rule over Poland for those who have tried, sometimes sacrificing their health and life, to fight for independent Poland. At the same time, it was a tough and determined politician, which is why it raises some controversy in certain environments. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, there was quite a lively discussion about this project and, as I said, it was not adopted unanimously but by a strong majority, by a majority of the members of the Committee on Culture and Media. Finally, the draft resolution first included in print 491, and then in the committee's report, print 507, reads as follows: The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2017 by the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. On December 5, 2017, the 150th anniversary of the birth of Józef Piłsudski - a steadfast fighter for freedom and independence of Poles. During the partitions he was a sibiary, one of the organizers of the independence of the Polish Socialist Party, the creator of the PPS Fighting Organization, the movement of the shooting and the Polish Military Organization, and later as the Commander of the I Brigade of the Polish Legions - the leader of the armed struggle for freedom. After regaining independence, Józef Piłsudski co-created the Polish Army, became the Chief of State, the Chief of Chief and the First Marshal of Poland during the Polish-Bolshevik War, in which the victory protected the Republic and Europe from communism. In the following years II of the Republic of Poland twice served as President of the Council of Ministers, he was Minister of Military Affairs and General Inspector of the Armed Forces. During that time he had the greatest influence on Polish matters. Józef Piłsudski was the creator of the idea of close cooperation between the nations of Międzymorza, the creation of a group of countries in Środowo-Eastern Europe, which would constitute a barrier against the expansion of Soviet Russia and safeguard Poland's independence. During the period of German occupation and several dozen years of Soviet power over Poland, Marshal Józef Piłsudski became a symbol of the tireless struggle for independence and an example for subsequent generations of Polish patriots. In recognition of the great merits of Józef Piłsudski for Poland and in connection with the coming 100th anniversary of regaining independence of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, Józef Piłsudski established the year 2017 as the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. The Committee on Culture and Media recommends that the High House adopt this draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u222	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Elżbieta Rauk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, is the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I took part in the special privilege of presenting the position of the club Law and Justice on the parliamentary draft resolution establishing the year 2017 with the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski - the most outstanding next to St. John Paul II Pole in the history of Poland, statesman, father of independence, legendary creator of Polish Legions, head of state and victorious war chief from 1920. They shaped young Ziuk's Polishness and patriotic atmosphere of the house, created mainly by Maria's mother from Sienkiewicz's Billewiczów. He has been engaged in patriotic activities and independence from an early age. Disappears to Siberia, activities in PPS, newspaper editors of the "Worker" newspaper, creation of the Fighting Organization, the Rifleman, and then the Polish Legions are the next stages on the road to regaining independence. Not only did he create a country that became a symbol, but he defended it from a deadly threat when the Bolshevik attack started, realizing the intention of Lenin and Trotsky: to move the revolution after Poland's dead body to the west of Europe. Deciding on the fate of the war of 1920. The Battle of Warsaw English diplomat Lord d Abernon called the 18th battle of world history. Józef Piłsudski was the creator of the idea of Międzymorza, i.e. the alliance of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, an idea so current today, to which President Lech Kaczyński was creatively referring in his actions. The Marshal died on 12 May 1935, and this death was a shock to the Polish society. Cat-Mackiewicz wrote: Piłsudski had fanatical admirers who loved him, but also those who hated him. And that's when you don't know. It was on the day of the funeral. On the contrary. On the news of his death, fear and fear, what will happen now with Poland, when he is gone, flew from the Baltic Sea to Poznań and Silesia, and from the Carpathians to Dzwina. After all the great country we lost four years after he died. It is also worth mentioning the less famous side of Piłsudski, about his love for Juliusz Słowacki, whose ashes he ordered to bring from the Paris cemetery Montmartre to Wawel to be equal to kings. Józef Piłsudski became an object of worship in many environments, and his achievements became an important element of shaping the collective consciousness of Poles. The warden as patron of 2017 will introduce us to the celebration of the year of independence. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the resolution. I will end with the words of President Ignacy Mościcki: "The boldness of his thought, the courage of his intentions, the power of his actions at the hands of the free hand of the shackles he threw down, the defenseless he forged, the boundaries he cut out, and the banners of our regiments crowned with glory. Contaminated, he taught honor to defend, faith in his own strength to resurrect, proud dreams of eagle trails to earth, and to turn into a hard reality. He gave Poland freedom, borders, power [[♪ The bell ♪]] And respect. The great inheritance was left by this powerful ruler of Polish hearts and souls. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u224	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask you, Mr Wojciech King, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u225	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Please, in 1918 - according to the legionary song - 'neither of this was Poland on the first'. I remember that time alive. Since then, I've been counting my greatest and heaviest experiences. Since then, I started working for the Polish state, at the head of it - as Marshal Józef Piłsudski said. I quote this quote because it describes very well the not-to-end idea to establish the name of Józef Piłsudski in 2017, especially in the context of the words of Marshal Józef Piłsudski himself. After all, in 2018 marks the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. In 1918. After 123 years of non-state existence, the Republic returned to the map of Europe, and the builder of reborn Poland was Marshal Józef Piłsudski. It's the greatest work of his life that eclipses all the other achievements of the marshal. The continuation of this work in those political realities was the victory in the Polish-Bolshevik war. All the more reason, then. The 100th anniversary of rebuilding Polish statehood deserves to be celebrated by Marshal Piłsudski. Since Piłsudski has subjected his entire personal and family life to matters of Poland, which have always and everywhere been the highest command and inspiration for his actions, I think he would reject the idea of law and justice, and would undoubtedly point to the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. He'd probably say Poland is more important than him. Because Poland is more important than names, even the biggest ones. The Civic Platform is therefore in favour of this understanding of the meaning of 1918. Piłsudski was a statesman, father of independence and creator of Polish Legions, the first marshal of Poland, the victorious leader of the war with Bolsheviks and twice Prime Minister, Minister of Military Affairs and General Inspector of the Armed Forces. But he also carried out the May bombing, reduced democracy after 1926, introducing sanitized, authoritarian governments. He achieved the greatest in 1918 and then in 1920. The portrait of Polish society is very complex. There is also a political portrait of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, an outstanding Pole, who, I repeat, made works of his life in 1918. Therefore, the Civic Platform is in favour of establishing the year 2018 with the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, on the 100th anniversary of the reconstruction of the Polish statehood. Under such a solution, I dare say, the marshal would also sign. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Józef Piłsudski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u226	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I dare say that the great work of Józef Piłsudski did not end at all in 1918 or in 1920. We have a lot of evidence for this, so it is worth to see what some have just looked at other facts and historical events in which he participated. [[And they learned.]] Now I would like to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the resolution on the establishment of 2017 with the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. Marshal Piłsudski was a great man and earned his country well. There can be no doubt about that. To respect him by patronage over 2017, when we celebrate the 150th anniversary of his birthday, which was just before the 100th anniversary of the independent Poland, whose main author he was, is absolutely right. In this case, it is worthwhile to disprove the various myths that have been invoked in the discussion on this project and which could still be invoked so that the level of discourse does not depreciate such an important person and related anniversaries. It is worth noting that Józef Piłsudski has always been guided by the idea of the Polish state as the common good of all its citizens. He did not act against nationalities, religions, associations and parties, but he fought against those people who harmed Poland, and then he did so often ruthlessly. The Marshal is sometimes criticized for authoritarianism and certain acts that may violate the legal order of the time. The May bombing, the Brest process and the establishment of a retreat centre in Bereza Kartuska. There's not much time, so I'm just gonna mention one thing. It should therefore be recalled that the attack carried out in May 1926 was intended to be merely an armed demonstration against the evil, fatal internal relations, when the Polish state was devoured and destroyed by particular interests, and democratic principles were regarded by most parties as a convenient facade for the realization of its own interests. Unfortunately, the opponents of Józef Piłsudski, mainly from the inspiration of Generals Juliusz Tarnawa-Malczewski and Włodzimierz Zagórski, decided to open fire to demonstrators, as defined by them, rebels, and this decision was unfortunately approved by the then President of Poland Stanisław Wojciechowski. Therefore, given all these reservations, it is important to remember above all the extent of the merits of Józef Piłsudski for Poland's independence. Therefore, the establishment of the year 2017 of Józef Piłsudski is the most appropriate year. The Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u228	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The figure of Józef Piłsudski is still controversial today - some view him as a national hero, others as a dictator who has taken over power by force, illegally, by assassinating democracy. Without a doubt, he was a statesman, a prominent Pole and a great patriot. A man who, like no one else, contributed to Poland's regaining independence. His history is the history of our homeland, its reflection. As you know, history is rolling around, so it is worth to approximate the silhouette of Józef Piłsudski in order to avoid the mistakes he has made in the future. Named by the commandant soldiers, the marshal after defending Polish borders disappeared from political life. The young state began to create a democratic rule of law, the foundation of which was introduced on 17 March so-called. March Constitution. It was not easy to create a democratic state. After only five days of office, the final elected President Gabriel Narutowicz was murdered. For the years that followed, more offices were formed and fell. From 18 November 1918 to 12 May 1926, 17 changes took place as Prime Minister. The worsening economic situation, failed governments and a series of compromising scandals led to the next appearance of Józef Piłsudski on the political stage. On 12 and 15 May 1926 there was a so-called. May morning, initiated by the marshal. As a result of the coup, 379 Poles were killed. The era of parliamentary and cabinet governments in Poland has been completed. The coup led to the takeover of power by a group of Piłsudski supporters, called the Sanctuary, which, in proclaiming the slogans of moral renewal, filled many key positions in government administration. Piłsudski did not establish an open dictatorship, but he exercised authority in an authoritarian manner. Although he had no office, real power was in his hands. Depending on Józef Piłsudski, President Ignacy Mościcki and other Presidents of the Council of Ministers were both presidents. The political processes of the opponents of the new power were very frequent. The opposition was sent to prisons or to so-called prisons. places of isolation. As a result of the rule of Sanation, the freedom of the press or of the word and the violation of the independence of the courts was restricted. Although the May coup certainly was a crime against the Polish state, it is impossible to imagine the existence of the Second Polish Republic without Józef Piłsudski. History likes to repeat itself. There are many similarities between the present world and the world of our forefathers. Let us all remember that the answer to the incompetence of previous governments is not authoritarianism, [[♪ The bell ♪]] democracy, although it has its drawbacks, cannot be replaced by any radicalism. Marshal Piłsudski was a great Pole and it is truly not subject to discussion. But he was also a man, and like every man, he made mistakes. Let us learn from Józef Piłsudski's mistakes so that blood will never spill again in Poland. Ever Marshal Piłsudski...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u230	Now, would you please stop...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u231	...appeared in political life, changing them every time. We hope that 2017 will be the year. Therefore, the modern club will support the establishment of the year 2017 by Józef Piłsudski. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u232	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome, Mrs. Urszula Pasławska, PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u233	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland concerning the establishment of 2017 by the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. On December 5, 2017 the 150th anniversary of the birth of Józef Piłsudski - a fighter for freedom and independence of Poles, which is a symbol of the relentless struggle for independence of Poland for subsequent generations of Polish patriots. Although Piłsudski's figure raises a lot of controversy, and the myths around him are sometimes difficult to distinguish from the truth, there is no doubt that he was one of the most important figures of the interwar 20th century. During the period of partitions - sibirak, one of the organizers of independence of the Polish Socialist Party, the creator of the PPS Fighting Organisation, the movement of the Polish Military Organization and the commandant of the I Brigade of Polish Legions, the leader of the armed struggle for freedom. After regaining independence - co-founder of the Polish Army, head of state, chief of Poland, the first Polish marshal during the victory in the Polish-Bolshevik war, which protected the Republic and Europe from communism. He was a man of charismatic and extremely strong character, but like every man, he also had his weaknesses. Perhaps not everyone knows that just before the Battle of Warsaw on 12 August 1920 Józef Piłsudski left Warsaw, went to the headquarters in Puławy and resigned from the function of chief of state and chief chieftain. In his letter to the Prime Minister, he pointed out that, since peace talks with the Bolsheviks gave nothing, Poland had to rely on the help of the countries of the hosts, and these made it dependent on the marshal's departure. However, Witos did not accept this resignation. In the following years the Second Republic was twice President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Military Affairs and General Inspector of the Armed Forces. He was the creator of the idea of close cooperation between the nations of the Międzymorza, opting for the creation of a group of countries in Central and Eastern Europe, which would constitute a barrier to the expansion of Soviet Russia. Józef Piłsudski, especially in the context of the May upheaval and the policy pursued in 1926-1939 by the Sanitation Governments, is still controversial. As a result of the coup, Poland was on the brink of civil war. Its authors sentenced hundreds of innocent people - soldiers, residents of Warsaw to death. They had Poles shoot at Poles. They created a camp in Berez Kartuska for political opponents. Instead of serving the nation, they divided it into fighting camps. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no unblemished character and the figure of Piłsudski is undoubtedly re-colored [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the consciousness of Poles and idealized, Józef Piłsudski is one of the most important figures, which we owe to regaining independence in 1918. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u234	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I am honoured to present my position on the establishment of 2017 with the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. As Chief Leader of the Polish Army, I would like to notify governments and nations of the warring and neutral existence of the Polish Independent State, covering all lands of the united Poland - these words Józef Piłsudski addressed the heads of government and states on 16 November 1918, informing the international community that Poland was established that independent Poland existed. In November 1918, on the day of sending this historical dispatch, the dreams of several generations of Poles were fulfilled. 123 years after the third partition, Poland was re-established as free and independent, but still forced to fight and defend sovereignty and its borders. In the Battle of Warsaw the Polish army under the direct command of Józef Piłsudski, with the support of others. General Tadeusz Rozwadowski and General Władysław Sikorski defeated the Bolshevik hordes, stopping the march of the criminal system to the West and South of Europe. Józef Piłsudski was born in 1867 in Vilnius in a family full of tradition of fighting for independence. At the age of 18, he was associated with independent organizations, and at the age of 21, he was arrested by the Tsar police and sentenced to five years of exile to Siberia. In faraway Siberia, he met the long-term punishments of the insurgents of January, which only confirmed his conviction that he had to fight to regain Poland's independence. After his return, he was actively involved in independence activities. He formed the PPS Fighting Organization, conspiracy unions and shooting teams. After the outbreak of World War I on August 6, 1914, at the head of less than 150 losers, he set out from Kraków's Oleanders to fight for free Poland. This is how the legend of Piłsudski's legions was born. About Józef Piłsudski, whose 150th birthday anniversary we will celebrate next year, one can say that beside Ignacy Paderewski and Roman Dmowski he is the creator of Poland's regaining independence in 1918. As Józef Piłsudski said: "To be conquered and not to succumb to this victory, to win and to rest on laurels is a disaster." May this motto guide us in constant efforts for the benefit of the independent Republic. In recognition of the greatness and importance of Józef Piłsudski in the history of Poland, the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle supports the initiative to establish 2017 with the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u236	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-associated Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Józef Piłsudski is a great, famous figure in the Polish history of the 19th and 20th centuries. A form of extraordinary format, which unfortunately has also been wrong many times in its political career. She was wrong at the beginning, joining the Polish Socialist Party, because with socialist slogans on her mouth, as you know, no one has ever done anything good. She was wrong about the orientation approach during World War I, betting on the camp of central countries, when Germany and Germanization were the biggest threat to the national existence of Poland and Poles. Finally, Józef Piłsudski was wrong when he proposed the reborn Polish Federation model in Central and Eastern Europe, which was an obvious utopia in the world, in a space where each of the nations sought their national state. Despite these great strategic mistakes and mistakes he made, it is not the task of the nationalists today, in the 21st century, that, as a model of the dispute which led to interwar Poland, the disputes between the two largest Polish political camps in the first half of the 20th century, i.e. on the one hand, the Piotr Sudczyk and on the other hand the national camp, raise these issues as something first-rate and deal actively with the fight against Józef Piłsudski and his place in history. We as nationalists should attach particular importance to the promotion of this thought, which in the most general, contributed most to the revival of the Republic, the thought which expressed itself in the publications of the most outstanding Polish statesman of the 20th century, or Roman Dmowski, e.g. in the thoughts of a modern Pole, Polish politics and reconstruction of the state, or the Church, nation and state. Ladies and gentlemen! On the threshold of the 21st century. Poland needs every hero and every character, every myth that refers to basically understood sovereignty. Therefore, the National Movement is not currently engaged in fighting against the figure of Józef Piłsudski, as was the case with the seniors of the national movement from the pre-war period. Today we are dealing with this thought, this attitude, this idea and this action, which actually built an independent Polish nation, allowed to mobilize the masses of people, masses of townspeople, even against the Bolshevik Uprising, that is, the thought of Roman Dmowski, the thought of Christian nationalism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u238	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Babinetz also wanted to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u239	Thank you very much, Marshal. When we talk a little bit about this discussion, first of all there is such reflection that it is probably a good thing that it was a joint debate about Józef Conrad-Korzeniowski and Marshal Józef Piłsudski, because they were both heirs of the January Uprising. Although Józef Korzeniowski was 10 years older, but they were both raised in the cult of the January Uprising, they were marked by it and hence their same approach to the issue of independence of Poland. On the other hand, when it comes to this dispute every year, whether 2017 is better or 2018 we should remember that there are still various celebrations in Poland, various celebrations referring to the 100th anniversary of the next fight to regain independence during World War I. This will also be the case in 2017, and the adoption by the Sejm that 2017 will be the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, if this is the will of the High House, will strengthen these celebrations, as it is said here, with a certain introduction to 2018. And yet in 2018, on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, we will worship all those outstanding Poles who contributed to regaining it. It will not only be Marshal Józef Piłsudski, but also Roman Dmowski, Ignacy Jan Paderewski, Vincenty Witos, Wojciech Korfanty, Ignacy Daszyński, Feliks Młynarski, Maurycy Zamoyski, Stanisław Wojciechowski, gen. Kazimierz Sosnkowski, gen. Józef Haller or gen. Jordan Rozwadowski, Valery Sławek and many others. So I think it is most appropriate for 2017 to be the year of Marshal Piłsudski and 2018 if it is also the will of the High House, the year of independence. It is difficult to say whether the Marshal would consider the 100th anniversary of the events of 1918, the year in which they will be celebrated, the most important year for himself, because perhaps he would have considered 1920 as such and therefore 2020 could have been the year of Marshal Piłsudski. First of all, however, the marshal did everything for our homeland, independent Poland, independent Republic of Poland, and therefore I think that this dispute about these years makes no sense. Because the Marshal's very important idea was to seek the cooperation of the countries of the Intermarine, the cooperation of the countries and nations of Central and Eastern Europe, which is a message for us today - I think, a message very important for the next generations of Poles - in order to strengthen our independence, this is the reason to always remember the Marshal Joseph Piłsudski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u240	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of Adam Chmielowski (prints No 360 and 506). I would like to ask Anna Elizabeth Soboba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u241	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the work on the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2017 by the Year of Adam Chmielowski - Saint Brother Albert. During the work of the committee saying these words, she presented the silhouette and the importance of St. Albert's brother, who helped to consolidate the most important social attitudes and gave Poles the hope of independence and social justice over the next decades. Adam Chmielowski was born on 20 August 1845 in Igołomi near Krakow. He was from a poor earthly family, where he was raised in the spirit of deep patriotism. During the January Uprising, when he was 18 years old, after losing the battle in which he was wounded, he entered Russian captivity, where his leg was amputated without anaesthetics. In order to avoid the repression of the Tsarian authorities, he left for Paris, where he studied painting. Everywhere he was, he was distinguished by his Christian attitude, and his strong personality had a strong influence on his surroundings. After announcing amnesty in 1874 he returned to the country and began searching for a new ideal of life, which was expressed by his painting. After a while, money from selling his paintings began to help the poorest, and his painting studio became a workhouse for the poor. With love for God and people, Adam Chmielowski resigned from his career and took over the administration of the heating room for the homeless. He moved there permanently, living among the poorest, helping them to bear not only material but also moral poverty. On 25 August 1887. Adam Chmielowski put on a gray Tercia habit and took the name Albert. He was a man of deep faith. He showed heroic love for his neighbor, sharing his fate with the poorest and wanting to restore their dignity. Despite his disability, he traveled a lot, founded new shelters, orphanages for children and young people, homes for the elderly and terminally ill. He died in the opinion of holiness, destroyed by severe illness and hardships of living in a workhouse. The funeral at Rakowicki Cemetery on 28 December 1916 became the first expression of worship universally rendered sacred to him. John Paul II, the Pope, now a saint, beatified him on June 22, 1983 in Błoniay Kraków, and canonized him on November 12, 1989 in the Vatican. He is the patron of the Albertine Orders and albertines, as well as artists in Poland. I trust that the celebration of the year of St. Albert's brother will be a great celebration of culture radiating all over the world. His life and creativity are synonymous with the cultural achievements of humanity, and direct influence and universal beauty speak to the audience regardless of geographical and cultural differences. In view of the above, the Committee on Culture and Media carried out its first reading on 12 May and unanimously submitted a draft resolution to the High House and requested the establishment of the year 2017 by Adam Chmielowski - a draft resolution with the following wording: The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2017 by the Year of Adam Chmielowski - Saint Brother Albert. The 100th anniversary of the death of Adam Chmielowski - Saint Brother Albert is held in 2016. In 2017, 130 years have passed since he put on his habit. His great talent and dedication to another man helped to consolidate among Poles the most important social attitudes and gave them the hope of independence and social justice for decades to come. Emphasising his outstanding merits in independence and in the field of social and artistic work, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, convinced of the special importance of his achievements for national heritage, he establishes 2017 as the Year of Adam Chmielowski - Saint Brother Alberta. I submit this resolution to the High House for adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u242	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Kołakowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 with the Year of Adam Chmielowski - Saint Brother Albert. In 2016, it is the centenary of Adam Chmielowski's death, and in 2017 it will be 130 years since he put on his religious habit. Who was St. Brother Albert? The author of his life Maria Winowska in the introduction to her book lists the successive stages of his rich life: a soldier, an invalid, a painter, a monk, a beggar, a miracle worker, a man with God gathered. Adam Chmielowski was a hot patriot, insurgent from 1863, talented painter, forerunner of Polish impressionism, friend of Wyczółkowski, Chełmoński, Gierymski, Witkiewicz, Brandt, but above all he was a man of deep faith, a heroic servant for the poor and the handicapped. He was called the most beautiful man of the generation, the gray brother, the Polish poor woman of Assisi, the brother of all men. Charles Wojtyła in his play called him the brother of our God. In the service of the poor, Brother Albert emphasized the principle of universality, that is, taking care of all in the final need, regardless of nationality, religion or origin, because he saw Christ in everyone. The problem of material poverty and even more moral poverty, although in changed circumstances, is still present today. Moreover, in a materialized and laicized world we see a crisis of respect for human dignity, and this is one of the greatest problems of our time. Saint John Paul II during the audience for Poles on the day of Brother Albert's canonization, addressing the problem of rebuilding the common good in his homeland, recalled the principle of solidarity and social responsibility. He pointed out St. Albert's brother, as the patron of our difficult times, teaches by his example that the common good is not only a fruit of justice but also a selfless love for those in need. The Holy Father's canonization message to Poles ended with the wish that St. Brother Albert helped all Poles to regain mutual kindness and to become a living stone in building a civilization of love on our homeland and everywhere. And that is the message of St. Albert's brother for today. Today we need such attitudes, witnessing Christian mercy both individually and collectively. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of establishing 2017 as the Year of Adam Chmielowski - Saint Brother Albert. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u244	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Białkowska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the establishment of 2017 with the Year of Adam Chmielowski. Our God's brother - that's what Adam Chmielowski called John Paul II. Known as St. Albert Chmielowski spent his whole life searching for his way to God. He grew up in a family where, apart from patriotic values, Christian love for the poor was the most important thing. When the January Uprising broke out, he became involved in the struggle for his homeland's freedom. He was willing to give his young life for the independence of Poland, if such love was to be the will of God. After all, participation in defence of the country ended with permanent disability for Chmielowski. After finishing his painting studies in Paris and Milan, he decided to paint religious paintings. So he ascended into the law of the Jesuit fathers, in order to make fuller use of his talent for the glory of God. However, this decision was not successful for the artist. While in the novitiate, he was painfully depressed. It was only after leaving the congregation that his inner peace and spiritual and physical strength gradually returned. Painting the painting of the painting of the "Ecce Homo" became the beginning of a spiritual transformation for Chmielowski. By creating the image of Christ tormented, clothed with purple and ridiculed, he tried to convey the essence of God's merciful love for man. As he met poor people in the way, he saw more clearly in them the face of Jesus himself. Chmielowski realized that by means of art he was unable to give back what Christ had done for man. He decided to devote his life to the ministry to those who, for various reasons, found themselves on the margin of life in order to make at least some satisfaction for God. He became our God's brother. St. John Paul II said of him: "Holy Brother Albert did not write scholarly treaties... He simply showed how to do mercy. He showed that anyone who wants to truly do mercy must become a selfless gift to another human being. To serve his neighbor is to give himself first, to be good as bread. Adam Chmielowski's life is also a guide for all of us to be able to see others and give them real support. The Civic Platform Club supports the proposal to establish 2017 as the Year of Adam Chmielowski. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u246	Thank you, Member. And I would like to ask the floor of Barbara Chrobak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is often said that one man has no influence on what our world looks like. In denying this thesis, I would like to remind you of the man who bore his life's testimony that it is the individual who can miraculously heal the reality, that it is the individual who can breathe the spirit into people with an insulted face, the abandoned and the poorest, saving in them dignity and faith. That was Adam Chmielowski, known to everyone as St. Brother Albert, also referred to as the most beautiful man of his generation. In December this year we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of his death. Despite the considerable passage of time, his work remains alive and happily finds many continuers, whether in the convent assemblies of the albertines and albertine sisters, or in the volunteers of the Foundation to them. Albert's brother, whom I had the pleasure of meeting in Radwanowice during the football game, and among many other ordinary people for whom St. Albert is an authority. In fact, however, his portion lives in every man who will give the poor one a piece of bread. Adam Chmielowski's merits are multidimensional. He was a committed patriot, involved in the fights of the January Uprising. He was also a talented painter. In the artistic environment of his epoch he enjoyed respect, also as a selfless painter and invaluable friend. However, he decided to search for eternal values, basing his spiritual transformation on the teachings of St. Francis of Assisi. He found a calling to help those in need. He lived in poverty and enjoyed doing good. It should be stressed that Brother Albert is one of the most fascinating saints of the Catholic Church. He is a man who, among many wonderful opportunities, chose the most difficult path, having given up his artistic ambitions, gave up all the honors and privileges of his own state, as well as family life, becoming the brother of the poor and abandoned. Such an attitude is all the more admirable and commendable especially today, at a time when profits often put themselves before the welfare of others. Recalling the legacy of St. Albert's brother, I would like to express my hope that we, too, as a parliamentary environment, will learn to follow his message: be as good as bread, instead of constantly throwing ourselves at political venom.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u248	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Adam Hilary Bernard Chmielowski, painter, critic and art theorist, was born on 20 August 1845 in Igołomi near Krakow in the land family. Very early he was orphaned and raised and educated by another family. He started his education in 1855 in the Cadet Corps in St. Petersburg. He continued it in the Warsaw Reality Secondary School of Jan Pankiewicz, and studied at the Institute of Polytechnic and Agricultural and Forestry in New Alexandria in Puławy. In 1863 he entered the armed war in the January Uprising. After the Battle of Grocchowiska, he was interned by the Austrians and deported to Olomouc, where he fled from, taking advantage of a favorable opportunity, entered the country and rejoined the regiment. Chmielenski. Wounded in the battle of Mełchow, lost his left leg. The family intervention saved him from being sent down to Russia. Convicted, however, of forced emigration, he left for Paris. In 1865, he returned to Warsaw, where he studied in the Rysunka class, probably under the direction of Rafał Hadziewicz and Ksawery Kaniewski. He continued his studies in Ghent, Paris, Munich. He was perceived at that time as an authority in the theory of ancient and contemporary art. In 1875 in Warsaw, together with Stanisław Witkiewicz, Antoni Piotrowski and Józef Chełmoński, he opened a painting studio at the European Hotel. The artists quickly found themselves in the circle of residents of Helena Modrzejewska's artistic and literary salon. Their atelier was visited by Henryk Sienkiewicz and Antoni Sygietyński, a composer and art critic, the leading promoter of the realistic trend. In 1880, he joined the Jesuit Order, but after six months he left the novitiate and went to Podole to his brother Stanisław, where he did apostolic work among the rural population. He maintained poor churches, roadside chapels, statues and altar paintings. He was prepared from the inside to the rejection of all temporal goods. For the rest of his life, he was guided by the maxim: neither home nor place nor anything. He traveled as a traveling painter, evangelizing among people, translating and encouraging. He aroused his suspicions of the Tsarian authorities, who found him dangerous by threatening to send him to Siberia. It forced Chmielowski to leave. In 1884 he returned to Cracow. In 1887 he entered the order of capuchin fathers and took the name of Brother Albert. Next year he became a member of the St. Vincent and started taking care of the homeless and poor cities of Cracow. He continued this work for the rest of his life along with his meetings of the Albertine brothers and sisters. He died in 1916 in [[♪ The bell ♪]] Kazimierz. Until the end, he was committed to working for the poorest. His funeral was a manifestation of appreciation and love. All of Krakow said goodbye to this most beautiful man of the generation. Along with the clergy, authorities, and the artistic world, a crowd of the poor followed the coffin. In 1938, the President of the Republic of Poland, Ignatius Mościcki, posthumously awarded Brother Albert the Great Empress of the Order of Polonia Restitut for outstanding merits in independence activities, in the field of social work, and on November 12, 1989. The Holy Father John Paul II canonized the blessed Brother Albert Adam Chmielowski in Rome. The Modern Club will, of course, support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u250	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Urszula Pasławska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u251	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the resolution concerning the establishment of 2017 with the Year of Adam Chmielowski. Last year, the proposal for Adam Chmielowski to be a patron this year was put on the agenda and then removed by colleagues from the Law and Justice agenda. Therefore, next year will certainly be the Year of Adam Chmielowski and the club of the Polish People's Party will of course support this resolution. Like I said, last year was the 100th anniversary of Adam Chmielowski's death. His great talent and dedication to another man helped to consolidate the most important social attitudes and gave Poles the hope of independence and social justice over the coming decades. Adam Chmielowski was born on 20 August 1845 in Igołomi near Krakow. He was from a poor earthly family, where he was raised in the spirit of deep patriotism. As an 18-year-old agricultural-forest school student in Puławy, he participated in the January Uprising. In the defeat of the Battle of Mełchow, he was wounded and his leg was amputated. In order to avoid repression by the Tsar authorities, he went to Paris, where he studied painting. Adam Chmielowski's paintings brought him the name of the Polish Fra Angelic. After a while, money from selling his paintings began to help the poorest, and his painting studio became a hug for the poor. Adam Chmielowski also joined the Third Order as a secular man. Francis, and in 1888 he made vows and founded his own assembly of albertine brothers, and not much later - an assembly of albertine sisters. Over time, he devoted himself only to the poor, accusing almost entirely of painting. The outstanding Cracow philosopher Fr. Konstanty Michalski commented: This character was surprised, but it was also understood that something like a permanent revolution was coming from it. Brother Albert gave his soul for those whom no one would give it in Krakow. It is no secret that Adam Chmielowski's character was fascinated by Karol Wojtyła both as a young man and after years when he became Pope. In the book "Get up, let's go!" he wrote: A special place in my memory, and even more - in my heart, has Brother Albert Adam Chmielowski. He fought in the January uprising and in this uprising the bullet destroyed his leg. From now on, he was crippled and wore a prosthetic. To me, he was a strange character. I was very spiritually involved with him. I wrote a drama about him, which I titled the Brother of our God. I was fascinated by his personality. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I saw a model in it that suits me - he quit art to become a servant of poor people, bloated people, as they were called. His history helped me to leave art and theatre and join the seminary. Last sentence. His life and creativity are synonymous with the cultural achievements of humanity, and direct influence and universal beauty speak to the audience regardless of geographical and cultural differences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u252	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the establishment of 2017 as the Year of Adam Chmielowski. Great are the merits of Adam Chmielowski for the Republic both in independence activities and in the field of social and artistic work. His achievements are our national heritage and it is right that the Polish Parliament appreciates the achievements that should be a model for the present generation and future generations. However, I would like to pay particular attention to the aspect of Adam Chmielowski's internal transformation, when he rejected the good life by sacrificing himself to help the sick and the poor. He helped the homeless and the poor, resisted alms, which he did not recognize as real help, but as an unsolved problem of poverty, an emergency procedure that calms the conscience of the richer. In his transformation, he rejected material possessions for higher spiritual values, for matters of higher rank. Such an attitude may be a clue to some of us here, especially to Members of the former governing coalition who cannot find themselves in a new reality. Come, please, by the way of Adam Chmielowski, reject the old habits acquired in the guys' cooperatives and take up with us... [[Oh, my God, Member.]] ...a positive work for the development of our Republic. [[What does that have to do with anything?]] The Circle of Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the resolution on the establishment of 2017 as the Year of Adam Chmielowski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u254	Thank you, Member. Two parliamentarians joined the questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list of people willing to ask questions. It's time for the question to be asked for two minutes. Please, Mr Marek Suski, Law and Justice are the first questions to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Appreciating the great contribution of Adam Chmielowski, St. Albert's brother in the great work of serving another man, at the request of the Order, we propose an amendment, that also in the year 100th anniversary of the death of Blessed Virgin Mary. Honorate Kozminski, capuchin, honoring him who also with his whole life proved that the values he was following, the actions he took, served another man. Just like St. Brother Albert was guided by these principles, helping especially the poorest, the most deprived, and at the same time he was a great patriot, who served the Polish cause in difficult years of national captivity to sustain the Polish national community at all costs in both the spiritual and material spheres of his life. We propose to amend the resolution, which will establish 2017 as the year of Adam Chmielowski and Blessed. Honorate Kozminski. I submit this amendment to the Marshal's hands, asking him not to send it to the committee, but to put a resolution to the vote in the voting block. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u256	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was curious to hear all the club statements here, and so was your statement. Thank you, because they were interesting. I wonder why this year, why this year 2017 should be the Year of Adam Chmielowski. I know you made a resolution last year... [[Anniversary of death.]] ...remembering the 100th anniversary of Adam Chmielowski's death. I know she was rejected. So what will we worship in 2017, what anniversary - the anniversary of death or birthday, or did something concrete happen? Because there's no excuse for that. I recall that there were also four other resolutions in the Committee on Culture, which had not been investigated, so what was so important here that this resolution is being processed and this year 2017 is to commemorate Adam Chmielowski? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u258	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of the committee rapporteur, Ms Anna Elizabeth Sobecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u259	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question, I would like to point out that the resolution clarifies that we are indeed celebrating the 100th anniversary in 2016, while next year we are celebrating 130. the anniversary of St. Albert's brother. So it was an opportunity to establish 2017 as the Year of Adam Chmielowski, St. Albert's brother, because this year, 2017, celebrates this year the entire Catholic Church, i.e. it was a request of the Episcopate. Since 2016 was rich in events related to the celebrations of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism, I think it would be very imposing. So much for my explanation, if you don't mind. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for all these beautiful speeches. I think it's St. Brother Albert would be proud that the Polish Sejm can appreciate his huge contribution, because St. Brother Albert Chmielowski for good as bread. He spent time in Krakow, he was an artist, before which he was opened an artistic career. In addition to his artistic work, he was interested in the life of the city, but non-living, far from everyday problems of people caring for a piece of bread for the family, unemployed, beggars and people of margin. He clearly knew that when they were not rescued, they would be exploited by leftist movements, which unfortunately happened in the 20th century. He sold his paintings to support the poor. That was St. Albert. I thank you once again for all these statements and I submit a resolution that I have read, including this amendment, the High House, to be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u260	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. As an amendment to the draft resolution submitted was tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on the draft after the text has been delivered to the Members. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by Tadeusz Kościuszko (prints No. 345 and 508). It is also my great pleasure to inform the High House that our gallery is attended by young people and children from Primary School No. 17 im. Tadeusz Kościuszki in Płock. [[Applause]] We cordially greet you. I ask Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the unique privilege of recommending to the High House unanimously adopted in the cultural committee a draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by Tadeusz Kościuszko. I hope that the prior appointment of the patron of the year will allow the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education to prepare educational programs so that the popularization of this extraordinary multidimensional figure is much greater in our society, because sometimes we feel that young people and children in the United States know much more about what Tadeusz Kościuszko has done than young people and children in Poland. I'm sure it was an unusual character. I'm not going to remind you of the entire work of Kościuszko's life, because I hope everyone in this room knows that. We know for sure that Tadeusz Kościuszko, who was raised on the patterns of Polish, French and American enlightenment, was able to compile all this very well and not only to engage in the service of independence of the Republic of Poland, but also in this struggle for independence to unite all, both nobles, townspeople, peasants and all ethnic and religious groups of the then Poland. It's so rare that he thought that in the struggle for freedom of the country everyone should unite. I don't think we have a second ambassador, showing friendship between Poland and different countries. It is a symbol of Polish-American, Polish-French and Polish-Swiss friendships and links between Poles and the people of the former borders of the Republic of Poland. We all know that he was a Polish engineer and leader who became a national hero in Poland, Belarus and the United States. He participated in the Polish-Lithuanian fights of the Republic against Russia and Prussia, and on the American side - in the American revolutionary war. As Chief Commander of the Armed Forces, he led the Kościuszko Insurction in 1794. He graduated from the School of Knights, which was created by Stanisław August Poniatowski. On 24 March 1794 he took a solemn oath on the Kraków market and formally took the leadership of the Kościuszko Insurrection. After his defeat at Maciejowice, he was imprisoned in the Fortress of Petropavlovska. He died in Switzerland, in Solura. The life story of Kościusko is really very rich. Maybe I'll just remind you of the reflections on him that were in world culture. Julius Verne placed his portrait in Captain Nemo's submarine in a book that almost everyone knows, Napoleon called him the hero of the north, Lord Byron wrote that at the sound of his name tyranny shudders, and Casanova in his diaries cried him immortal. Throughout the United States, Kościuszko has fewer monuments than George Washington. Behind the ocean, he gained the reputation of a strong strategist, a fortress builder. He was a co-founder of West Point. Kościuszko was the first to appreciate women, giving this testimony in a document formulated during Kościuszko insurrection, in which she addresses women directly. His response was the first political document of state importance in which not only women are noticed, but also calls them fellow citizens, giving them a social status that they did not experience at the time. Kościuszko writes about settling public need, asking women to engage in the uprising, giving bandages and taking care of the wounded. It was the first time, then for a very, very long time women had to wait for such attention. Kościuszko was known for his extraordinary modesty, his ability to work with all men. Artists wrote about him. I'm sure he was an unusual character. Therefore, I hope that this will be a good patron of 2017. I will read another sentence, very important, which Kosciuszko always referred to: Never will the Poles' weapons of their enemies be terrible when they agree with each other. I think that's a very important motto for today. May I now remind you, I will quote the resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. In 2017, the 200th anniversary of the death of Tadeusz Kościuszko - the Supreme Chief of the Armed Forces of the National Uprising, called the Kościuszko Insurction, the Polish and American General, a steadfast fighter in the struggle for independence. Tadeusz Kościuszko occupies a special place in the pantheon of national heroes. It is a symbol of freedom and a model of a patriot not only for citizens of the Republic of Poland. He embodied the best values: tolerance and equality; Thomas Jefferson, one of the authors of the American Declaration of Independence, called Tadeusz Kościuszka the true son of freedom, paying tribute to his work in the United States of America. This excellent military commander and great organizer led to a great break of independence, united against Russian and Prussian assassins all states and ethnic and religious groups. He died in 1817 in Solura, Switzerland. His heart rested in 1927 at the Royal Castle in Warsaw. Tadeusz Kościuszko treated his military and civic duties as a service for the welfare of the whole nation. He deeply believed in the inalienable dignity of the man whose good he put first. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, paying tribute to the great Pole, establishes 2017 as the Year of Tadeusz Kościuszki. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u262	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Puda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a statement on the resolution of the Sejm on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of Tadeusz Kościuszko in connection with the 200th anniversary of the death of this great Pole. Tadeusz Kościuszko is a symbol of freedom and integrity not only for our nation. The purest son of freedom he called Kościuszka Thomas Jefferson, one of the founding fathers of the United States, paying tribute to his merits to the Americans. Kościuszko was the son of the Brest swordsman, an army officer of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. He graduated from the Cadet Corps, where he also received an engineering education, which later facilitated his military career in America. Interestingly, his first dream was a painting career. He even went to Paris. He did not become an artist, but his stay in pre-revolutionary France was important for his political and social beliefs. After the first partition of the Republic of Poland, Kościuszko returned to the country to join the army. However, the army had already been cut off, so he went abroad again. Right after the declaration of independence of North America went there to fight for America's freedom. As a colonel of engineering, he marked himself in the construction of the fortifications of Philadelphia, Saratoga and the famous West Point fortress. The U.S. government has promoted him to brigade general in recognition of merit. After eight years he returned to the country and fought in the war against Russia, for which he received Virtuti Militari - a new award and the Order of the White Eagle, while the National Assembly of France gave him the honorary title of a French citizen for his merits in the fight for freedom. After the second partition of Poland, Kościuszko came to Dresden, where he and Ignacy Potocki and Hugon Kołłątaj developed the concept of national uprising. Kościuszko was a natural candidate for his leadership because he combined talents and experience from the war in America, and he had military trust and a strong international position. In 1794 an uprising broke out. Tadeusz Kościuszko became his warden. They were hailed as a bone-scene insurrection. It was the last attempt to save the Republic. The uprising covered almost the entire country. The greatest successes of this breakup are the victorious war near Racławice, near Szczekociany, as well as the Połaniec University which increases the freedom of serfs and the union in the fight of Poles of all states and religions. In the insurrection of Kościuszko Poles [[♪ The bell ♪]] They have shown themselves to be valiant and devoted to their homeland. Within 8 months, the Polish side mobilized 150 thousand. Humans, however, the armies of the two partitions bloody suppressed the uprising. The Battle of Maciejowice ended it on October 10, 1794, on November 4, the Russians entered Warsaw and slaughtered the population of Prague - 20 thousand. The victims, and they sent 20,000 to Siberia. Fighting. Despite the failure to rise up, the idea of fighting for freedom through the efforts of the whole nation has become a message to the posterity. The Poles took it up, chasing at the fight for independence of their homeland in every generation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u264	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u265	Tadeusz Kościuszko was an important national hero for Poles. Reminds of him as monuments, street names and schools. Today, too, we remember such an important event as the 200th anniversary of Tadeusz Kościuszko's death. I believe that the High Chamber will unanimously pay tribute to the outstanding Pole in an appropriate resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u266	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u267	Thank you, Marshal. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to recommend to the High House the adoption of a project in prints No 345 and 508, i.e. the establishment of 2017 by Tadeusz Kościuszko. The project was announced by the Civic Platform club in connection with the 200th anniversary of the death of Tadeusz Kościuszko - the highest chief of the Armed Forces of the National Uprising called the Kościuszko Insurction. Tadeusz Kościuszko occupies a special place in the history of Poland. It is a symbol of freedom for us, a model of a patriot, an example of understanding tolerance and equality. Andrzej Tadeusz Bonaventura Kościuszko, born in Polesia, a student of the Piarist College in Lubieszów, chose a military career and joined the Knight's School Cadet Corps in 1765. He was an outstanding listener, taking an engineering course. Then he continued his education at the Royal Guard Military Academy in Versailles. His stay in France, on the eve of the revolution, had a huge impact on his political and social beliefs. After the first partition he returned to Poland, but because he did not find his place in the reduced Polish army, he went to America. His engineering skills were used in fortifications, among others. In the battle of Saratoga. George Washington entrusted him with the construction of the West Point fortress at the Hudson River. In recognition of the merit of the resolution of the American Congress, he was promoted to general of the U.S. Army brigade. He received 250 hectares of land and financial gratification. All his possessions there were devoted to the redemption of freedom and education of the redeemed slaves. After returning to the country, one of his first decisions was to limit the peasants from their family estate in Siechnowice and completely exempt women from it. During this time, a group of activists who saw the need for reforms in Poland played an increasingly important role in Poland. The four-year-old Sejm took up the work of repairing the Republic of Poland. The army was increased to 100,000, and in 1789, the king nominated Tadeusz Kościuszka as the rank of Major General of the Crown Forces. Poles' efforts to strengthen their homeland aroused concerns about Russia and Prussia and parts of the native magnatery related to foreign powers. The market confederation was established and the Russian army crossed the borders of the Republic of Poland. Kościuszko actively participated in preparations for the expected intervention. After the king's appointment as chief of the Crown Army, Józef Poniatowski Kościuszko became commander of one of the three divisions. In the Polish-Russian war in 1792, he was awarded the Order of the White Eagle in the Battle of Greens and Dubienka. After the second partition, Kościuszko developed the concept of organizing the national uprising and, despite many adversities, took a solemn oath to the nation and formally took the leadership of the insurrection. And even though the uprising ended in defeat, within eight months... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, just a moment longer, okay? ...mobilized to fight 150,000. People. It was the first break against the assassins. During that period, a legal act was issued called the Polesian Universe, which formally granted limited personal freedom to the serfs and enabled them to fight armed forces in the insurgent army. Kościuszko died in exile. Kościuszko, as a character who takes a special place in the pantheon of national heroes, symbol of freedom and patriotic design, not only for Poles, deserves to be declared the Sejm of the Republic of Poland 2017 as the Year of Tadeusz Kościuszko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u268	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz team15 on the announcement of 2017 with the year of Tadeusz Kościuszko on the 200th anniversary of his death. Thomas Jefferson spoke of him as the purest son of freedom. And even though he also had black cards in his history, like. signing a loyalty in relations with the Russians, it is worth highlighting in his biography this fight for freedom. He commanded an uprising that was the last attempt to save the Republic. It lasted from 24 March to 16 November 1794 and covered almost all districts of the Polish state. The key events of the uprising were the victory of the Battle of Racławice, the announcement of the Poles' Universe, the defeat of the Battle of Maciejowice and the dissolution of the insurgent troops on 16 November at Radoszyce. Professor Andrzej Zahorski wrote in his book "Three National Uprisings": "Although Kościuszko suffered a defeat, he showed the way to fight for freedom through the collective effort of the whole nation and it became his political will. This idea of ideology and politics will be taken by Poles, chasing each generation to fight for the reconstruction of the state. Tadeusz Kościuszko achieved the greatest fame in the United States - this was possible thanks to his knowledge of the fortification - where he deserved to be the creator of the fortifications under Philadelphia and Ticonderoga and gained the rank of Brigadier General. It has seriously contributed to the independence of the United States. There is even a legend that he was the inventor of the flag of the United States. Right after he died, he became an object of worship. Many monuments were presented to him in Poland, starting with the Kraków mound from the 20s. 19th century The monuments of Kościuszko are decorated with four American cities. A huge number of Polish schools bear his name and probably there is no city in Poland where there would be no Tadeusz Kościuszko street. The Kukiz Club15 fully supports the announcement of the year 2017 by Tadeusz Kościuszko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u270	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I very much welcome the young people who are on the balcony. I'm always interested in people who are heroes. I'm not interested in some paper characters that are really out of reality and have nothing to do with this reality. I would therefore like to warn Members of the Law and Justice and the Kukiz15 movement against the hasty support of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 in the Year of Tadeusz Kościuszko. You can unwittingly honor a man who represented completely alien ideas to you. You can honor a refugee who has repeatedly sought refuge, among others. Paris, Dresden or the ocean. You can honor a man famous in the battles for independence of America, who once returned to Polish lands probably represented the interests of this emerging foreign empire. You can hastily reward a national hero who has followed the ideas of equality, freedom, tolerance and respect for the law, a man who has devoted most of his wages to the redemption of freedom and education of dark-skinned American slaves. You can honor a man who led an unstabilized erotic life, romance with married women, give birth to illegitimate children, did not despise prostitution, and according to some messages, even shared a bed with men. You can elevate the ardent anticlerical, who repeatedly emphasized that a full separation of the Church from the institutions of the state is necessary, strongly promoting its secularity, a man who opposed the education of the young generation by Catholic clergy. You can honor the commander who ordered the confiscation of valuables and dresses and even church bells for insurrection. The Modern Posel Club, of course, supports the resolution on the establishment of 2017 with the Year of Tadeusz Kościuszko. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u272	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Urszula Pasławska. Oh, sorry, Mrs Urszula Pasławska made her written statement on behalf of the club. In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u273	On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland concerning the establishment of 2017 in the Year of Tadeusz Kościuszko. Tadeusz Kościuszko is a national hero of Poland and the United States. In his honor, the Kościuszko mound was built in Krakow, and one of the American counties was named after him. The highest peak of Australia won by Paweł Edmund Strzelecki is Mount Kosciuszko - Mount Kosciuszko. General Tadeusz Kościuszko participated in the American War for Independence and in the Polish national liberation uprisings. In 2017, the 200th anniversary of Tadeusz Kościuszko's death. Tadeusz Kościuszko, precisely Andrzej Tadeusz Bonaventura Kościuszko's coat of arms Roch III, was born on 4 February 1746 in Merechowszczyzna, died on 15 October 1817 in Solura - Polish and American general, fortifier engineer, participated in the war for independence of the United States, raised up an uprising against Russia and Prussia in the Republic of Poland, the Supreme Chief of the National Armed Forces in the insurrection of 1794. For the first time, he demonstrated his unique military talent shortly after his arrival in America on 24 September 1776. He was assigned there to develop a fragment of the fortification of the city of Philadelphia, a region of the Delaware River. In recognition of merit, the resolution of the Congress of Tadeusz Kościuszko was promoted on 13 October 1783 to general of the U.S. Army brigade. He also received a special thank-you, a landslide, about 250 ha, and a substantial sum of money to be paid at a later date, in annual instalments. When Congress paid him back in 1798, despite a difficult financial situation, he immediately spent this money on buying the freedom and training of Negroes. All the rest of his American estate Kościuszko entrusted to Jefferson, who was the executor of his will with a clear abolitionist expression. A few years later, on 24 March 1794 he made a solemn oath to the nation and formally took the leadership of the insurrection later called the Kościuszko Uprising as the Supreme Warden of the National Armed Forces. Wounded at Maciejowice, Tadeusz Kościuszko entered Russian captivity. He was released by the Tsar Paul I in 1796. The general took an oath not to fight against Russia. And the Tsar promised to release about 20,000. Poles imprisoned after the defeat of the uprising. The Tsar has not fulfilled that promise. In 1799. Kościuszko met with Napoleon, who persuaded him to support the idea of creating Polish troops in France. Kościuszko rejected Napoleon's proposal and took a stand against the pronapoleon sympathy of most Polish soldiers. Between 1798 and 1815 he lived in Brevile near Paris with Piotr Zeltner and took part in the creation of the Polish Legions. In 1799 - October 17 and November 6 - he met Napoleon. Kościuszko was an opponent of binding the Polish case with Napoleon, whom he did not trust. In our consciousness he was the first in history warden of the uprising to raid Poles into armed action. He is a national hero of Poland and the United States. Tadeusz Kościuszko treated his military and civic duties as a service for the welfare of the whole nation. He deeply believed in the inalienable dignity of the man whose good he put first. Today, many monuments, streets, schools and other institutions of his name remind us of his merit and importance for the Polish state. Tadeusz Kościuszko died in 1817 in Solura, Switzerland. His heart rested in 1927 at the Royal Castle in Warsaw.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u274	We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws (Prints 607 and 636). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was my honour to present the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, contained in print no. 636, in relation to the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Law on Public Procurement and certain other laws. On 14 June 2016, the Sejm Marshal addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, which also happened at the committee meeting on 21 June 2016. In total, the Senate proposed 120 amendments, some of which were accepted by the committee in block voting. This covered amendments tabled in the following sets: Amendments 2, 5, 24, 45, 50, 56, 58, 66, then amendments 6, 11, 12, 15, 17, 21, 22, 28, 30, 34, 35, 38, 47, 51, 53, 60, 68, 69, 71, 72, 75, 88, 93, 98, 101, 112, 115 and 117, amendments 7 and 107, amendments 40 and 64, amendments 54 and 119, amendments 55, 100, 102, 120, amendments 105, 106, 114 and amendments 116 and 118. The Commission has given a positive opinion on the amendments of Senate Nos 3 and 4, 6 and 19, amendments Nos 21, 22 and 23, 26 It is worth noting that, most often, the committee's position on the Senate proposals was unanimous. The differences between clubs or committee members have emerged with regard to the following amendments. Amendment 1, the rejection of which was recommended by the committee, concerned the addition of, inter alia, the definition of the concept of public law entity. The discussion also concerned the concept of normal market conditions. I would remind you that the committee recommended that this amendment be rejected. In Amendment No 42, the adoption of which was recommended by the committee, according to the Senate, by Article. 55a paragraph. 1 in the wording adopted by the Sejm suggests that in the negotiated procedure, with the announcement of the award of the contract on the basis of preliminary offers without negotiating and dividing the negotiations into stages... This is mandatory, which cannot be reconciled with other regulations contained in the Act. Amendment 76, recommended by the committee, aims to divide the grounds for exclusion in defence and security contracts into optional and mandatory conditions. Amendment 81, according to the Senate, is editorial. There was a vote here without a wider discussion, as was the case with Amendment 85. The Commission recommended that both amendments be adopted. Amendment 95 was recognised by the Senate as an editorial amendment. The Commission recommends that it be adopted. The committee held a discussion after hearing the opinion of the representatives of the Legislative Bureau of the Sejm. Amendments 105 and 106 were proposed by the Senate because, according to the Senate, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the rules on contracts awarded by an archival operator, it is desirable that such entity be obliged to publish contract notices in the Public Information Bulletin if the value of the contract exceeds the equivalent of 30 000 in zloty. Euros. This was the case for Amendment 105. A similar change has been made in respect of contracts awarded by a cultural operator. This was the case for Amendment 106. The Commission recommended adopting both of these amendments. Amendment 109 was the subject of the hottest discussion. It seeks to ensure that, where the municipal council decides to collect municipal waste from property owners who are not resident by residents, the mayor or the president of the city is required to organise a tender under the Public Procurement Law for the collection and management of such waste. It should be stressed that the opposition to this amendment has emerged from a number of actors. However, there were also voices supporting it. Finally, this amendment was welcomed by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u276	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Murdzek, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, contained in print No 636, on the adoption of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Law amending the Law on Public Procurement and certain other laws contained in print No 607. Many of the amendments proposed by the Senate and approved by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development are editorial, and some of the amendments eliminate provisions that repeat other regulations. These changes improve the readability and thus the quality of the bill. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development also welcomed the Senate's amendments of substance, among others. The ones with special weight. For example, amendments 7 and 107 exclude from the regime the Public Procurement Law below the so-called "Procurement Law." Union thresholds granted by the manager of a special economic zone. Given the nature and scope of the statutory tasks put before the managers of the special economic zones, I would like to say that this will facilitate the award of supply, service and works contracts by these operators, which will allow for a better and more efficient achievement of the objectives by the special economic zones. Amendments 55, 100, 102 and 120 consist of the addition to the Public Procurement Law of the regulation setting out the obligation to make public information on the intention to conclude an in-house contract and the rules for concluding such contracts and the way in which they are supervised. Added solutions increase the transparency of in-house procurement and enable the contracting authority to take appropriate supervisory action. Amendment 109, which was the subject of the biggest discussion, concerns in-house procurement, namely the collection of municipal waste from property owners who do not live in the city. In this regard, the votes representing the local government party are fundamentally different from those of the representatives of entrepreneurs involved in waste management. Given all the arguments put forward, we believe that the adoption of the amendment will be the most appropriate solution. The 120 amendments proposed by the Senate's Committee on Economic Affairs and Development 12 have been negative. The Parliamentary Club recommends that amendments be adopted in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, with the exception of Amendment 1 and Amendment 20, where we recommend the adoption of the amendments proposed by the Senate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u278	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u279	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Madam President! High Izbo! This draft law was examined at many meetings of the Economic and Development Sub-Committee, after which, of course, it was sent to the Senate and brought back 120 amendments for analysis by the Parliamentary Committee. In previous analyses there were also these amendments, well over 100. These were the amendments of the applicants, plus amendments which were tabled by the Legislative Bureau. So the great work in the Parliamentary subcommittee was unbelievable. It was a substantively extremely important law, because in addition to the implementation of EU directives, it introduced optional solutions which did not have to be analysed now. I stress this with all my power, because I worked on the whole bill, I chaired the subcommittee and almost until the end I was rapporteur, but I think I was doing it too detailedly and too thoroughly in the subcommittee and in the committee, and, finally, for the summary, the report was forwarded to the House of Law and Justice, which I naturally congratulate you on. We differ as a club in relation to the PiS club in the approach to amendments 1, 20 and 109. In the case of Amendment 1, as I hear, you will, however, recommend the adoption. As a club, we will recommend rejecting this amendment, because it in its original version, but also in the version corrected by the Senate, raises serious doubts, because it is not clearly definitive and creates some new definitions of normal and unusual market conditions, so we believe that it will be quite difficult to interpret, and sometimes it may and may not necessarily be possible to deny, because it will be difficult to interpret. Another amendment is amendment 20, whereby applicants, i.e. the Senate, when accepted also by the government, introduce in relation to the conditions of participation in proceedings concerning the financial situation or the economic conversion of the term "profits' to the term "returns'. Income, ladies and gentlemen, is defined everywhere. He is defined and in tax settlements, and in the profit and loss account of companies, companies, etc. On the other hand, the turn, as we heard at the committee meeting, is customarily accepted and understandable. I would also like to point out that the turnover will now be on the next bill, which will be processed, on the retail resale project. It's about turnover recorded using fiscal cash registers, and it's turnover, but it's definitely not the same as income. Therefore, there will certainly be a great amount of interpretation here again. There could be problems, which is why we're against it. Amendment 109., ladies and gentlemen, in our assessment, absolutely does not give any additional value or value to entrepreneurs... [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's such a makeshift opening of a gate. During the whole process of this law, you did not want to agree to competitive conditions, market conditions, so that there would be room for public entrepreneurs, and for private entrepreneurs. So now you're trying to create some kind of gateway that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u280	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u281	...use will depend solely on the decision of the municipality council. Therefore, in the case of this amendment, we are likely to abstain because we believe that it absolutely does not bring any solution to the public or private side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u282	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the resolution of the Polish Senate on the Act amending the Public Procurement Law and some other laws, print No 607. Ladies and gentlemen! As my esteemed previous speaker said, this is a large project to which several hundred amendments were tabled in the course of the Parliament's work, and later at the stage of the Senate's work these amendments were also reported in excess of 100. In fact, we hoped that the Senate, as the House of reflection, would draw attention to any doubts, far-reaching doubts that were raised in the course of the Parliament's work. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. In fact, as far as these amendments are concerned, most of them are editorial or legislative, so they did not raise any major controversy, except in principle one, namely Amendment 109, concerning the rules governing the so-called. in-house. Let me remind you that our club was opposed, all free marketers were opposed to introducing such solutions, which are de facto corrupt solutions. This was also pointed out by the Office of Sejm Analysis, leaving no dry thread on the proposal which was addressed to the Sejm from the Ministry of Development. So this is an analysis of the Sejm Analysis Office, which was clearly negative in terms of the in-house solution. And now what did the Senate do? However, the Senate decided in some way to gently save this free market in Poland, so as not to introduce full socialism. And with great surprise at the committee meeting yesterday - and I will remind you that yesterday was Entrepreneur's Day, at the last meeting of the Sejm we agreed that on 21 June it would be Entrepreneur's Day - on 21 June on Entrepreneur's Day a great battle took place in the Sejm Committee on whether or not to introduce total socialism in these public, municipal or not. Fortunately, it turns out that some part of the free market has been saved, but - we stress once again - this law, this solution is clearly wrong, because it actually excludes from the free market not only the handling or transport of waste, but a whole range of other municipal services, which in the future will simply be excluded from the free market. So that we as the Kukiz Posel Club15, all of us here free marketers clearly misjudge this bill, this proposal. We stress once again that the Social Dialogue Council also expressed a negative position, expressed its willingness to work on this law in such a way that it would retain the free market in Poland, in short. So that, ladies and gentlemen, I know that this bill will come into force very soon. I hope, however, that we will move quickly on to the process of amending it and correcting it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that which has been broken in the last weeks in the Seym. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u284	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The revision of the Public Procurement Law law has raised a lot of controversy from the very beginning. Many solutions are introduced, including: it contains provisions limiting bureaucracy which will positively affect public procurement in the country. Unfortunately, despite the huge number of 120 amendments introduced by the Senate and attempts to mitigate the form of in-house, appeals and voices of reasonableness of many institutions, among others. The Sejm Analysis Offices, the Social Dialogue Council and many others have been underestimated. The introduction of this provision will de facto eliminate competitiveness in this segment of the market. Companies will go bankrupt because they will run out of business space, and thousands of people working for them will become unemployed overnight. Where are these loud announcements about the strength and importance of Polish small and medium-sized enterprises? How can you promote yourself as supporters of the development of Polish entrepreneurs while throwing logs at their feet and by means of this law really exclude them from the market? Lack of competitiveness will result in higher prices for in-house services and citizens will also lose. In addition, as I have already said, the amendment of the law in this version is contrary to the recital in the implementing directive, according to which the possibility of in-house procurement should be absolutely exceptional, should be used only if the situation in a free competitive market does not allow the proper execution of a specific contract, even if by a small number of providers of a given type of service. During the work of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki also spoke negatively about in-house, asking us MPs for support. The EU Directive identifies in-house as a unique option. By introducing this law, we will do great harm to Polish entrepreneurs. Citizens will pay more. With all this in mind, how can we put in place such a solution that will bring much more harm than good? Especially since in the near future we will have further work on the new Public Procurement Act and it would seem that it would be a good time to think about how to introduce an in-house solution into our legal order so that it does not harm healthy competitiveness in the Polish market. This seems all the more rational given the extension by the Senate of the vacathio legis until 1 January 2018. I think we'll be able to completely improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u286	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u287	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Public Procurement Law Act. This is an example of how we should not proceed over billing projects. There are 120 amendments made by the Senate to the bill not so extensive, but this is the result of the fact that this law was not written precisely from the beginning. The whole bill was written at the subcommittee meeting practically all over again. And this is the result that there were many amendments later in plenary at second reading, and today we have an example of further amendments, 120 amendments, no matter what. they are, whether substantive or technical, but in total they are amendments. This shows that the bill will certainly not be a perfect bill. It won't be a perfect bill because time will show that there are inaccuracies there. And the proposed further amendment of the law shows that we are prepared for this. On the other hand, regarding the substantive justification, the Polish People's Party has here, as regards Amendment 109., because it aroused the most controversy, a completely different approach. The PiS also had a different approach when adopting this law. You were on the side of local government, and right now you're pulling out of this. And yesterday at the committee meeting, you didn't know exactly which way to go. Local government is an important part of our economy. Besides, local government officials yesterday reported that adopting such solutions would not bring anything new, but would cause total chaos, because they would avoid, because there would be transitions, differences in interpretation of this approach. Therefore, the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of not accepting the 109th amendment, for rejecting this amendment, because that first solution is better than what the Senate has proposed at the moment. Too much harm has been done to local governments lately, so let's take their side and show that we care about Polish government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u288	Thank you very much, sir. Three Members signed up for the questions. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Puda, Law and Justice are the first questions to be asked by Mr Grzegorz Puda. Time - 1 minute. There's no envoy. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u289	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We just heard here that there were a lot of amendments in committee, in the Senate, and that this is some kind of massacre act at all. So I would like to ask the Minister: Does the bill presented contain provisions that introduce solutions that are not coming directly from the EU directive, but which have been long awaited by entrepreneurs and local authorities? Is this the solution to regulate in-house orders or to move away from the price as the main criterion of procurement? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u290	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law deals with simplifying and making public procurement procedures more flexible. I have a question for the representatives of the Ministry, the question is, of course, related to the amendment tabled by the Senate. What is the reason for the Senate amendment No 20 concerning the fulfilment of the terms and conditions for participation in the tender, converting the word "income" into "turnover"? It is worth noting that the amendment has been voted negatively by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, and the government's recommendation to it is positive. What is the position of the Ministry on this matter? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u292	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Mariusz Haladyj for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u293	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With regard to solutions that go beyond what is necessary to implement the scope of the Directive, and for which we have decided to implement them, listening to the voice of entrepreneurs, these are primarily issues of non-price criteria for assessing offers, i.e. The aim is to strengthen non-price criteria in the application of the rules. Reducing bureaucratic obligations - some of the solutions are due to consultation with entrepreneurs or the collection of their experience - to increase the participation of SMEs, but also to eliminate solutions that are detrimental to entrepreneurs today, i.e. above all, the question of using references and the problem of so-called. companies of folders, which use the potential of third parties, win in tenders, while SMEs are essentially imported into the role of subcontractors, which is necessarily beneficial in this whole contract chain, because the biggest advantage, the largest margin is always at the beginning. At this point in time, the contracting authority will be able to request that all the key elements of the contract be executed by the contractor, so that the process is very limited, especially in the construction market, this is severe for companies. Finally, the mandatory labour law clause, Article. 22 Labour Code, i.e. increasing the rigour associated with employment for employment contracts. Where the relationship between the persons performing the contract and the contractor will be governed by the Article. 22 Labour Code, the contracting authority will not only be able to, but will be required in the specification to require tenderers to apply labour law rules. Second question, about trading in income. This is, above all, an amendment adapting to the Directive. The Directive and the Regulation, which introduce a single European procurement document, use the concept of turnover. We did indeed withdraw from this amendment yesterday, when the arguments were used that turnover is not a legal concept but only an economic concept, and after the committee meeting we made an additional analysis. The concept of trading occurs in Polish laws, whether in the Law on freedom of business or in tax laws, but also in today's regulation on documents which contractors submit in proceedings. So it's not like I'm gonna say change... On the other hand, this present network of concepts is maintained, otherwise, given that the law would use the concept of income, and in a single European document whose application will be mandatory will be the concept of trading, the contracting authority will de facto not even be able to verify the conditions to be set up. Therefore, in order for a correlation to exist between the provisions of the Act, the Senate amendment and the revenue should have been supported to replace turnover. At the same time, as I say, we have checked it in other our regulations - there the concept of trading is as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u294	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the rapporteur of the committee want to speak? [[Briefly.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly. Firstly, with regard to the statements made by the representative of the Civic Platform - Madam President, I would just like to point out that I personally value this work and believe that the whole subcommittee, which has worked on amending the Public Procurement Law, has really put a lot of work into it. The amendment by the rapporteur concerned only those parts and amendments which were assessed by the Senate. Secondly, in the case of the speech made by the Member presenting the position of the Modern Club, I had the impression that it concerns perhaps not those amendments which were prepared by the Senate, but, in principle, the entire draft law, which we have already adopted on 13 May. And the third thing I wanted to draw your attention to, also referring to the Minister's statement, since we are talking about this difference between turnover and income. In fact, as the Minister said, we have a concept of turnover in Polish law. It is not... maybe otherwise, it appears in the Freedom of Business Act, in the definitions of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs - art. 104.106. That's where the legislator uses the criterion, the concept of turnover. We also use the concept of turnover in tax laws, e.g. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 90, 111 or 127 of the VAT Act and Article. The 12th CIT Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u296	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. The Group of Members has submitted a draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws. The project is print number 642. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to complete the agenda by a point covering the first reading of the project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Research Institutes (Prints Nos 609 and 624). I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u297	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Research Institutes, print No. 624. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 14 June 2016 the Senate's resolution on the above matter in order to examine it to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. The Senate amendment concerns use in Article. Paragraph 24 5a of the word "decision' in the absence of a director of a state research institute. At that time, the Scientific Council shall manage the running of the competition again and, pending the appointment of a new Director, the Supervisory Minister shall appoint one of his alternates or another staff member of the Institute to act as Director, who shall fulfil the conditions laid down in the Act. The term "decision' used in the provision is characteristic of administrative proceedings. The Senate therefore considered that the terminology appropriate to the minister's activities should be used. Committee on Education, Science and Youth at its meeting on 21 June this year. it has examined the above resolution and asks the High Sejm to accept the Senate amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u298	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u299	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on Research Institutes, print No. 609. The Act arranges the management of state research institutes, enabling the Minister to increase supervision of them. Currently, 17 state institutes operate in Poland. They shall perform a particular role in carrying out activities contracted by the competent minister. The total basic grant for the functioning of institutes this year amounts to nearly 550 million PLN, of which over 91 million PLN is allocated to state research institutes. It is clear that since the state budget finances the functioning of the institutes, the government should supervise them through appropriate ministers. There are many examples that research institutes do not carry out their basic tasks properly. The report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of October 2015 revealed the inefficient exploitation of the scientific potential of institute staff and the focus of activities on the provision of non-research and development services. The activities of the Institutes audited largely consisted in the implementation of routine work for public administration and economic operators with little implementation activity - although the number of patented inventions increased twice, only 20% of them were applied in practice. Also, the previous supervision of institutes was not properly carried out - it mainly concerned financial and organisational issues, and to a lesser extent scientific and implementation activities. The Supreme Audit Board addressed requests for inspections to the supervisors taking into account the effects of their scientific and development activities. As you can see, action was needed to remedy the situation in research institutes and improve their functioning. This will be done by this law on strengthening the supervision of state research institutes by the competent minister. The Senate held its meeting on 9 June this year. he considered the law taken by the Sejm and passed one amendment to it, proposing other rules for the appointment of a person to perform the duties of director. The Sejm Committee on Education, Science and Youth recommended that it be adopted at its meeting on 21 June. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Law amending the Law on Research Institutes will vote against the rejection of the Senate amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u300	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u301	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate amendment to the bill is linguistic in nature. This is indeed justified by the fact that the problem in this case is not actually about the amendment, but about the wrong project, which has been prepared despite the contrary opinions of the scientific community. Mrs Borowiak, who spoke in front of me, said that this bill was tidying up. Well, it must be said that this law completely subjugates the ministers' institutes. She doesn't tidy it up, because this previous bill, in its previous shape, maybe, was quite decent. This current shape, which results from the project, gives the Minister absolute power when it comes to staff matters. The Minister shall indicate the Director, the Vice-Directors, and shall conclude agreements with them. As many as 50% of the Scientific Council are to be appointed by the Minister. Even the chairman of the Scientific Council, elected in elections, can be chosen only from among the members of the Council appointed by the Minister. So this is the full submission of state research institutes to the Minister. I think it's worth realizing. This amendment actually, from a linguistic point of view, is better placed than before, and it is not the problem. The problem is the entire bill, which is a bad act. I must even say that applicants have a completely different attitude than the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, which, for example, consults it in the event of a revision of the Law on Higher Education [[♪ The bell ♪]] Often with the environment, it responds to demands. Here we have a completely different situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u302	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to invite Mrs Magdalena Błeńska, Kukiz Club15. There is no Member. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern Club. There isn't any either. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u303	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the law on research institutes. Ladies and gentlemen! The project prepared at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education provides that the Minister, who oversees a specific institute, will be able to appoint a director of the Institute from among the candidates submitted by the competition committee. That wasn't the choice before. He called the winner of the contest. Does this mean that the minister will be able to cancel the director and put his man in his place? [[Sure.]] There's a lot that says yes. At the same time, it was foreseen that the Supervisory Minister may not appoint a Director when none of the candidates submitted by the committee guarantees the proper performance of the Institute's tasks. What does that mean? The bill doesn't specify that. Theoretically, the situation when the Minister designates the so-called. His man is a temporary temporary situation, because after six months he should appoint a director in the competition. But the minister can always reject the candidate, and the pretext may be general that he does not guarantee the implementation of the Institute's tasks. No secrets, of course. Interestingly, on the competition committee, three people come from the minister, and only two define the scientific community. Therefore, our task, PiS will do everything to intimidate and consequently take over a huge part of Polish science, scientific institutes. There's no consent for that. Polish science should be independent, not party, as it seems, plans PiS. The Polish People's Party Club will be opposed to the changes made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u304	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present our position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on Research Institutes. This Senate resolution introduces one amendment to the contested law. As indicated in the reasons for printing No 609, this amendment refers to a change in terminology. The clarification and clarification of the vocabulary used can, in my opinion, only give positive results. We accept the Senate's argument that the replacement of one person acting as director by another should entail the validity of all the activities undertaken by the person originally appointed, and that the wording of the amendment of the decision will result in the loss of validity of those activities. About Free and Solidarni supports the amendment tabled by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u306	Thank you very much, Member. Three people came to the questions. Would any of you like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u307	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum of the proposal states that the act is about strengthening supervision, as Mrs Borowiak said. Since this is, as I said, absolute submission, my question is: Why is this needed, what is this to benefit state research institutes? We've heard of negative control results, but numbers aren't given. Mrs. Borowiak didn't say how many institutes, in which cases. I would like to hear whether this number of patents will increase immediately, as the Minister will appoint two alternates and the Scientific Council will be headed by a person designated by the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u308	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask you, Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Research institutes should be an important link in the field of our science. They should be, and they're not, according to the NIK report. If we read in the report that there are institutes that have not implemented any patent at all, then why such an institute, I ask. It is widely believed that institutes are efficient, good when implementing around 50% patents, and that's not the case here. I wanted to ask the Minister: Is there any chance that the effectiveness of the Institutes will increase after the law has entered into force? Not only the effectiveness of institutes, in this situation they will be the most important link in our science, because they are not, I'm very sorry, but they are not. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u310	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is such a general law that a free man is much more creative, working better than the one who has a whip on him. For many years I have been observing the work of research institutes and these assessments of NIK show that they are positive, in general they are positive. Therefore, this amendment which does not improve the situation of institutes is completely incomprehensible. Of course I agree, maybe these patents aren't enough, but we have to start from the other side. You have to help in the work of institutes, not increase control, which can do nothing. Moreover, since 1990, we have been seeking autonomy through successive amendments to the Law on Science and Higher Education, because only it can give rise to development. This amendment is going in the opposite direction. You can be sure, it won't work, except fear, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And fear is not a good development advisor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u312	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Mr Leszek Sirka to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u313	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to be aware that state research institutes are a particular creation. I'll give you an article here, maybe. 21 Chapter 4 of the Law on Research Institutes, which states that the Institute may receive the status of a State Research Institute if there is a need to order it to carry out tasks on a continuous basis. What does that mean? These are particularly important tasks for the planning and implementation of state policy, and their implementation is essential to ensure defence and public security, justice, the protection of national heritage, the development of education and culture, physical culture and sport, and the improvement of citizens' lives, etc. I do not want to quote this law any further, but it simply means that the supervising minister must be able to exercise control over such institutions. Few of this, in a situation where this control is well organised, the supervising minister is sure that the targeted grant is well used and, therefore, it can also be thought that, in special situations, or even in normal situations, this special subsidy will be continually increased, year by year, to ensure that these institutes carry out their tasks accordingly. This is the basic effect that... [[For this, regulations such as those in 1951 are needed.]] Exactly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u314	Thank you very much, Minister. Would the rapporteur like to speak? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank all those who since 16 February this year. - because it was at that time that the Marshal's draft law on amending the Law on Research Institutes came into contact with the staff - they worked on the bill both in the commission and in the subcommittee. This law allows, contrary to the opponents of its provisions, to increase the supervision of the Minister for Industry of State Research Institutes, which should, by nature, work closely and consistently with the Institutes. These institutes carry out particularly important tasks for state policy. Thank you again very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u316	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law (Prints No 620 and 635). I ask Mr Robert Telus to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two committees were convened on 21 June 2016: the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. We have dealt with the resolution of the Senate from print No 620 on the Act amending the Law on Hunting Law. The Senate has made three amendments. All three amendments are editorial amendments and the committee therefore recommends that the High House accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u318	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Paluch, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] In that case, I ask Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are talking about the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law. The problem is mostly about compensation, and we all know it. As the rapporteur said, there are three Senate amendments that do not matter much to the whole of the law. Of course, the Civic Platform Club will not oppose these amendments, claiming that this is a bad bill, a law to which no impact assessment has been included, none of us know how much the State will pay. It serves only and exclusively to spend 35 million extra posts for the voivodships. It does not systematically regulate Hunting Law in accordance with the Supreme Audit Chamber's opinion that the hunting economy is poorly conducted and requires systemic changes, changes presented by the rulers. This is not done, it is a chaoticly written bill, undisputed, no cost has been calculated. Let me remind you once again: 35 million this year will only be spent on jobs, and only on jobs, and no gold will go to farmers. Farmers this year, in 2016, will not receive compensation for hunting damages under this law, compensation will be paid only and exclusively on the basis of old rules. So the question is, why now, why is it so wrong to write a law that doesn't change anything about hunting damages, it only gives the opportunity to spend money on new jobs in the voivodships and create a whole group of people who have nothing to do this year. On behalf of the Civic Platform, we will not be against editorial amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u320	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u321	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the report of the joint committees: the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, concerning the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, which refers to the amendment of the Law on Hunting. As part of his work, the Senate has tabled three amendments which are purely editorial. One of them eliminates the error of incorrect referral. Another amendment is to clarify the transitional provision. And the next one is the same. This bill was procedated for quite a long time and aroused a lot of controversy. We have some concerns about her, too. We'll probably be investigating some of our own ideas about solutions to the hunting bill. At this stage, however, we believe that some solution should be adopted by now. They expect this and the hunting environment, and the farming environment. In the case of these amendments, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u322	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u323	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments made by the Senate to the Act are precise and editorial. The Modern Parliamentary Club does not comment on these amendments. During the work of the Parliament's committee, various amendments were made to the draft law. A very good change in relation to the original version of the project is the one that introduces a provision on liability of the tenant or the manager of the hunting circuit for damage caused in the execution of the hunting. This is fair to all citizens, since hunters earn money. Despite our earlier objections, we hope that the payment of compensation to farmers after the implementation of this law will have a real impact on fairness and fairness in matters of compensation. For farmers and the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, which on 12 May this year. asked the committee to adopt this amendment without delay, it is very important to change the assessment of the damage within 7 days and not, as previously proposed, within 14 days. After two or three hunting seasons after the entry into force of the law, it would be worth presenting a real burden for the state budget, as it is difficult to determine at this moment how much costs will be incurred. employment of employees of voivodship offices, their work, i.e. travel costs, costs of court cases which do not always end up in a single hearing, costs of expert opinions. The increase in hunting damage may be a consequence of the changes made, as the law does not cover the issue of preventive action. Hunting wheels when paying for large according to the £ will not engage in prevention of damage through the fence of crops, the use of repellents, acoustic deterrents, etc. The issue which remains unresolved is the failure to respond to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. In the construction of the law, the legal context already established by fundamental rights with the highest legal force must not be forgotten. Of course, with regard to the whole law, I find that there is a need for systemic changes and this law is highly underdeveloped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u324	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Urszula Pasławska, the Polish People's Party, is preparing to speak. I wanted to welcome you to the gallery of students, teachers and parents from the Primary School in Kupiski, the municipality of Łomża. Welcome. [[Applause]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u325	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry of the Environment for their commitment to the annual Dian Club Conference of the Polish Łowicki Union. We also thank you for the presence of the Minister. To get to the point, I would like to say that the amendments adopted by the Senate, of course, are not controversial, are grammatical and legislative in nature, but I would like to refer here again to the whole of the law and to express my great regret that my colleagues in Law and Justice have not accepted a single amendment prepared by the Polish People's Party. So far, in matters as important as hunting, agriculture, compensation, we have been able to find a compromise that has not always been able to push through in the Sejm, but it was such, you can say, to act over divisions and to think over-party. It's a pity it's a bill in some way. She divided us all because it was a good practice that had been applied so far. As I said, the direction of co-financing from the state budget is as appropriate as possible - it was also included in the law prepared by the Polish People's Party - while as far as the possibility of implementing this law is concerned, the introduction into the administrative mode of agriculture and many, many other such conditions, however, may cause some not to collapse, but to introduce chaos into this model of hunting which today is in force in Poland. We see a threat like that. With regard to the Senate resolution, of course, we have no proposal, we will not vote against, but I have questions that I will ask shortly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u326	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Telus will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Of course, a lot has been said about the amendments here, these are editorial and minor amendments. Of course, the Law and Justice Club, which I have the honour to represent at this point, will vote in favour of these amendments, but I would also like to refer to the whole law and to what has already been said here. I regret the fact that the Polish People's Party Member did not notice that we really leaned very hard on this law and discussed with all the environments: political, but not only with such ones, but also with the environments affected by this law, i.e.. I mean the farm environment and the hunter environment. This law has changed very seriously in the course of its work, which shows that we have really listened to the voices of all the environments, so that this law is as good as possible. We know that it is very expected by farmers, and we also know that hunters, hunting circles also wanted compensation to be settled. We regulate two basic issues in this law. First of all, hunters are not judges in their own case, which is very important. I think that everyone here will agree that hunters will, of course, pay compensation, but they will not assess these compensations themselves, they will be estimated by an objective committee. We hope that the committee appointed by the voivodeship will be good, objective. The second thing is the Compensation Fund. I do not know why Members, especially the Civic Platform, do not understand the issue of the Compensation Fund. If we set up the Compensation Fund, hunters, hunting circles will pay their contribution which they have to pay, but if they run out of money - we think that it may run out, as we estimate, about PLN 30 million - we will add funds from the State Treasury. What's causing this? This causes that when hunters pay their contributions, by hunting wheels, they actually cease to be a party. Maybe not really, but they're no longer a party. They won't pay. [[Is that good?]] I think it's good, because until now, like hunting wheels were a party, they've done everything they can to pay as little compensation as possible. And we want farmers to be paid compensation appropriate to their losses. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that there have been cases that 200 PLN was paid per hectare of grass. It wasn't even suitable for the seeds. Thank you all for this work, because I think this is the last stage in the work on this bill. Thank you to all those who have joined in, all those who have leaned over this law really substantively. I would like to thank the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture for finding the common denominator that we have passed this law in order to serve the common good and, above all, the farmers and the hunter, because that is why it is created. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u328	Thank you, sir. Only Mrs Urszula Pasławska joined the questions. Are there still people willing to speak at this point? If there aren't more people willing, I'm closing the list. Question time - 2 minutes. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u329	Dear Marshal, Minister! I will ask three questions that I have already asked during the third reading vote. I didn't get an answer, so I'm gonna ask it again, hoping it might work this time. The first question concerns a question raised on the Senate committee, namely: Who will in practice guard these fields if the hunter is absolutely separated from the estimation of hunting damage, and therefore will not even know where this damage occurs? It's a simple question. Who's gonna watch the fields or the crops at all? The second question concerns financial issues. We have a certain premium written down depending on the game. In fact, today each wheel can calculate what amounts it will spend every year to contribute to the Compensation Fund. I would like to hear what is the guarantee that these amounts will not change significantly, that is to say that the rates per animal species will not be changed. Can you do it today? Member of this House to ensure that, although these rates will not be increased over the next four years? I'm talking about a radical increase. And the third question concerns feasibility. This really is such a question of great concern for the process itself, the efficiency of the evaluation process. Today it estimates 5,000. Hunters. We agree that there was no money in this whole process, but $5,000. Hunters did some work, estimated damage in the field. We know that these damages do not occur simultaneously throughout the country, i.e. there are certain periods in which these damages actually exist, have their own [[♪ The bell ♪]] intensity. How would you like to replace 5,000? 380 hunters? These are practical questions, and I would very much ask you to explain my doubts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u330	Thank you, Member. Before I ask for the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Minister Andrzej Necessary... [[No, there were questions for me.]] ...I would like to inform the High House that our discussions are being listened to by local government officials, councilmen, councillors and local government employees from the municipalities of Rozoga and Świętajno in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. Greetings to the local government. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Minister Andrzej Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your positions, for your questions, for the work we have done together in the committees. It was a huge challenge to finally take this test, I stress: a test, because in this situation we can come to a common conclusion that there are no excellent solutions. However, I would like to present the background to this whole issue, let's say the last 10 years. I would like to address the issue in turn, as you have done, with substance. Namely the first case. During the last 10 years, the population of wild animals that cause severe economic damage to agriculture has grown one and a half times, in the case of wild boars - twice, in the case of deer - twice, in the case of deer - three times, and in the case of elk the population of this species has increased nine times. But let's focus on the wild, because it is known that wild boar in the forest, in the forest environment, is, in principle, a useful species. In the crop and fetus environment, it is a pest from the producer's point of view as it causes damage. I do now. I have an open question that I don't expect an answer to. I would ask what we have done so far over the last eight years to, firstly, try, more or less successfully, in the direction in which the parliamentary project is going to repair the hunting damage done in fetuses and agricultural crops. Secondly, what has been done about the issue of increasing the shooting of this game that is causing damage? Let's not use neology, we have to call things by name. Without limiting the population of wild animals, there is no way to reduce these serious damage. I'll answer those questions. What the Polish Hunting Union does, the amounts it allocates, including financial resources, own work - you can say: hundreds of thousands of hours of social work, participation in all kinds of work: in securing fields, in managing proper forest management, hunting, sorry - it has not been valued here, but we cannot ignore this. So what I want to say is this: the actions that have been taken and will be taken are that, first, the level of gunfire has been increased as much as possible, i.e. in recent years, in the last 2 years this has been an increase of 30%, in the following year there has been an increase of 30% compared to the previous year, i.e. we have 130% compared to the base year. and an increase of 30%. Without these radical steps, unfortunately, there is no chance of not seeing the damage. This is where we need to talk openly. Who's gonna guard the fields? Of course, the fields will continue to guard hunters who do not do it out of compulsion, but that is their passion. They will do the same, and they will lean on it. With regard to financial issues and the rate, here is the information that this fund is created from the state budget. I absolutely disagree with that, because all you have to do is read the rules of this project. It's clearly written how it's made. Gross, the vast majority of the State Compensation Fund will come from contributions that will be multiplied by the number of animals of the individual species planned in the extraction plan, which means that this will be, according to the estimates presented in the committee, paid by the managers and tenants of the hunting circuit; 87 million - that is the calculation for today. If we're talking 380 jobs, we're talking jobs. This causes such an economic event, these are jobs, not people. Thus, in a situation of increased damage in the spring period, during the summer period the voivode will be able to hire part-time workers, while at the same time entrusting them on a part-time basis, so to speak, to carry out additional tasks for its employees. That's when it comes to this feasibility. Now the question is that these rules are coherent, coherent. This is related to the fact that the determinant is the annual hunting plan. The annual hunting plan is part of a multi-annual hunting plan, which is 10 years old. The participation of farmers and agricultural chambers was also guaranteed in these provisions, which was called for that the hunter should not be a judge in his case. As for the feasibility and efficiency of the whole system, it can be said that it is a parliamentary project, a good attempt, and without consent, without the High House allowing these rules to enter into force and we will try to test these rules - such a formula has not yet been in our law - we will not fully see how it will work. As far as rates are concerned, the last detailed information, the substance, is flat rates, the rates - it is included in the provisions of this amendment - are subject to annual valorization with an annual average price index of total consumer goods and services. If the High Chamber, the legislator will want to change these rates, then the only way, as is the case today, is by amending the law. It is not possible to reduce the rates by implementing a provision in order to ultimately obtain cumulative receipts for the Compensation Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u332	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee. [[No, the applicant.]] The applicant. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would also like to answer that question which the Member has asked. I am acting at this point as the representative of the applicants under this law. There were three questions. I'll put two together. She asked who would watch and whether the contributions would increase. First of all, if the hunters are watching, and I hope they are, these contributions won't increase. If they don't watch and the compensation gets bigger, we know, we're gonna have to look for the money. Here hunters are also at risk, and contributions can also increase. There is little, but there is a provision in the law - I think you have read it - that if hunters fail to implement the plan, they will have an increase in contributions. So that here will be dependent... We make sure the plan's done. The second is the third question you asked: Can we do 380 jobs? So far, they've estimated hunters. They work professionally, they do their job, they're hunters, and they still estimate the damage. We have 380 jobs, not people, just jobs. We know that there are periods in which these compensations need to be estimated, very much. Then the voivode for the contract-order will hire more people to estimate it. We're hoping it'll work out. I understand, Madame, that on certain points we will not agree, because I am more of a farmer here. A farmer who respects hunters, I want to emphasize this very strongly, because sometimes it has been said that we farmers do not respect or understand hunters. We know that hunters are very much needed in this whole system, and we respect hunters, but I act as a farmer, the Member acts as a hunter and, I think, here we do not agree. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u334	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws (Prints Nos 621 and 623). I ask Mr Maciej Małecki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Energy and Treasury Commission worked on the amendments tabled by the Senate yesterday. The Commission welcomes all amendments tabled by the Senate and asks the High House to adopt the Senate amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u336	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Maciej Małecki will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, the Law and Justice Club voted in favour of the amendments tabled by the Senate. The club supports the amendments tabled by the Senate. We will vote in favour of these amendments in the voting block. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u338	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Gabriel Lenartowicz, excuse me, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! Thank you for the correction. It's a good thing it wasn't Narutowicz, because I'm already scared. Honourable Members! Dear Marshal! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present a position on the position, amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, from this tribune I have already said many times that this is a very bad law that turns us back, directs us back and makes us go completely backwards towards the energy trends in the world and in Europe. This is a bill of evil in terms of proceding - without public consultation, inter-ministerial, without giving the effects of regulation, messed up with subsequent amendments. 63 de facto de-autorative amendments at first reading, 13 amendments at second reading, 17 Senate amendments, because only these Senate adopted - these are also self-corrections - amendments after amendments and amendments with simultaneous announcements of changes. This is an act of evil, because it imposes on Poles an additional tax under the coat of renewable energy sources, increasing the transitional fee. There will be unprecedented energy increases. Each family will pay approx. 96 PLN of additional non-RES charge. It's a bill that's still anti-consumer in the Senate's amendments. It introduced a de facto release of heat prices, because the restrictions on statutory heat increases, which were in the Act, were assigned to the Ministry, to the regulation. These arguments were also raised by URE. It was left unanswered by the Ministry. This anti-prosumer law, which is against renewable energy sources, is introduced when the European Parliament recommended the European Commission's proposals to support civic energy as one of the aspects of energy security and part of the Energy Union, which Poland has called for. The Civic Platform will, of course, not be against amendments that correct errors, but will be against an amendment that de facto releases heat prices for citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u340	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking of RES, we should analyze them in terms of cost, safety and reliability. As Kukiz15, we believe that citizens should have a greater impact on those in charge of energy production. In the country, we have a large amount of coal that needs to be used efficiently. We have no doubt that for the moment Poland should seek a compromise between professional energy, industrial energy and renewable energy producers. Forced to comply with the climate package, we forget that RES is also subsidised, expensive in the production of equipment and unstable. On the other hand, the air pollination of Polish cities is an important problem. low emissions. There was no dialogue with the opposition when working on the parliamentary amendment of the RES Act. The project turned out to be a government document, to which several dozen self-corrections were submitted. His propriety was noticeable. The amendments of the Senate of the Republic of Poland systematize the provisions of the bill amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. We need solutions that will not expose you to temporary restrictions on electricity supply and consumption. Efficiency can be achieved if we make the necessary energy-efficient investments. In bulk customers it will be possible to use e.g. Trigeneration, while new electricity and heat consumption techniques should be applied to individual customers, e.g. cogeneration aggregates on the basis of combined production in the production of electricity and heating of houses. It should be stressed that support for the development of biogas plants will balance the energy sector and make the Polish village self-sufficient in energy. It is worth mentioning the introduction to Polish energy so-called. clusters. There is a chance that such agreements between individuals and institutions, e.g. local self-government units will spread. On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 we inform you that we will support this bill. We are in favour of the amendments to the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. We will keep track of how the new regulations will affect the energy market and its distribution. It is very likely that in 2018 the European Commission will present a roadmap for renewable energy beyond 2020. We are looking for further solutions, amendments to laws on these regulations, energy regulations. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u342	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club in relation to the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. The Senate has made many amendments to this bill. I agree with the previous speakers that these amendments are mainly legislative and precise in nature, they are an attempt to remedy this law, which we generally take a negative view of. The exception concerns amendments 12 and 14 relating to the purchase of heat from renewable energy sources. The scope of the statutory delegation for the Minister of Energy to regulate, among others, is controversial. the detailed scope of the obligation and technical conditions for the purchase of heat, conditions for connection to the network, how to determine the actual amount of heat covered by the obligation. Knowing the Minister of Energy's approach to renewable energy sources, it is reasonable to be concerned that the provisions of this Regulation will in fact constitute barriers to the heat trading of RES, which may lead, as my predecessor said, to the release of heat prices. I stress that this regulation is a step backwards towards the development of renewable energy sources. We call this law an anti-RES Act. For prosumers, this law means giving up the guaranteed tariffs in favour of the so-called. Leaving. In general, coal power plants burning biomass with coal are the beneficiaries of this law, windmills have been eliminated as a result of the stability requirement, and other installations such as biogas plants will not be able to be prepared in time due to the long-term investment process. The result of this law is also the tax, which has already been mentioned, an additional tax, whose burden will be felt by all Polish families, is the amount of approx. 100 PLN, exactly 96 PLN, and it is worth to emphasize that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u344	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to refer to the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. From the beginning I said and my club expressed such a position that it was a bad bill. A law that goes in a completely different direction than the previous solutions. A law that gives an incomprehensible signal even for the whole of Europe, which happened in Poland at the moment, that we are starting to be backwards, so to speak. It's a law for the rich, it's a law for the big companies and for those rich individuals who want to, as the minister said, collect stamps and play it. However, this will not support the general prosumer movement, for citizens who could help you to produce energy, especially in difficult times. Even if we already feel threatened at this moment, because we may be running out of electricity in these heats any day, and then when it's the sun's most sunny, the best sunshine, we could have that energy with minimal effort, with minimal support. But unfortunately, it wasn't done. This will hinder the prosumer movement, it will be a bad signal for citizens too, that the law which is adopted in the Sejm by a certain group, because I want to say that the PiS supported these solutions, and then it is changed. If any formula were changed, yes, but the concept is completely changing, that is, we are going into co-incineration, into pollution, which is very, very important and very dangerous for our society today. Here I can remind you that Pope Francis in his encyclical Laudato speaks clearly and warns, and urges to respect the environment, take care of the environment, and refers to renewable energy. And there was a good time - and I think there will always be - that this reminder should take place and that we should go in the direction of respect for the environment and this citizenship through appropriate legal regulations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u346	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u347	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and on certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a very good bill. It's a prosumer bill. It is a law that will develop the market for renewable energy installations. It is important to remember that this is co-incinerating over which, among other things, the Member. here he so regretted, it is aimed at ensuring that conventional energy can operate on a very difficult competitive market, because today this market is a European market, and perhaps even a world market in a moment, and not just a Polish market. This is a very good bill because the tariffs have just been abolished. It was the guaranteed tariffs that paved this market by limiting it to a certain number of 120 and 150 thousand. renewable energy installations. I would like to remind you that in your law adopted in that term, i.e., not in the State, the law adopted in February 2015 there was a limit for these installations. It was an obvious limitation. However, in order to show that these are not just my inventions, I would like to support the opinion of an absolute, undisputed authority in this industry, a quote from the report by Prof. Jan Popczyk from the Silesian University of Technology entitled. The RES Act: a mirror of the market of interest groups and an argument for the need for a completely new electricity market in Poland.I quote: How to assess government-parliamental actions concerning the RES Act in relation to the conditions presented? Certainly not because of the chaos produced around the bill. On the other hand, we need to focus on the pillars needed to build a new market. From this point of view, net meters in the RES Act as a potential market mechanism is very desirable (to expose non-market political mechanisms). Leakage as a market mechanism is generally (in the context of RES net price parity) a rational solution. The discharge value equals 0,7 for sources up to 7 kW is rational (not that it is optimal, especially in the context of the application of different RES technologies). I'm sorry, Just as it is not... rational, from a macro-economic resource allocation point of view, the value of the drain is equal to 1. It must be added that Prof. Popczyk probably didn't know yet that for installation up to 10 kWp the value of our committee's votes would pass 0.8, even more optimal for prosumer. What I'm trying to say is that it's a good bill and that it's going to develop the RES market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unlike what we've heard here before. However, it should be regretted that we have waited eight years for the previous terms to introduce a definition of a prosumer into the RES market. And that, unfortunately, is the omission of the previous government coalition. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote for the Renewable Energy Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u348	Thank you, sir. Three MEPs joined the questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. The time for questioning is 1 minute. Please, Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please answer the question: How will the adoption of a draft amendment to the RES Act improve the functioning of the national energy system? Polish energy companies are less involved in the use of new manufacturing technologies. What is the risk that competitors from neighbouring countries will enter the Polish energy market and be competitive in price, will have other generation capacity under RES? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u350	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Following the adoption of the amendment of this law, according to which legislation and in what legal formula will the cluster function? Who or what entity will represent him in administrative and civil relations with offices and other entities, e.g. With the service providers? And finally, on behalf of the cluster, who's gonna make a deal with the supplier, the energy recipient? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u352	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question. on the amendment, which I mentioned in my statement, Amendment 12, which introduces a legislative delegation for the Minister of Energy to buy heat from RES. In particular, this question concerns the objective of this amendment, because it is indeed a concern that this may lead to significant restrictions or even the release of heat prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u354	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy of Minister Wojciech Kowalczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the national energy system is concerned, it is this law that prefers stable renewable energy sources and should significantly improve the energy security of the country. As regards the issue of foreign auction shares, it is limited to 5% , on a reciprocal basis. This should be the risk that's gonna miggle. Cluster issues are described in detail in the Act. The representative or representative of the cluster will be the entity which has also been designated in the Act, selected from among the participants of the cluster. That's all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u356	Thank you, Minister. And please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee of Maciej Małecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me remind you that the draft law on renewable energy sources should have been passed a long time ago. The fact that the previous coalition, the Members of the Platform and the Polish People's Party did not do so should rather be the first and most important argument for today, after you had your 5 minutes, not to criticize solutions that you could not introduce yourself. I would like to remind you that the project in the field of these solutions introduces a number of changes to the RES Act which are beneficial for prosumers and beneficial for the Polish economy. I would also like to remind you that the previous regulations completely unjustifiedly promoted large wind farms at the expense of Polish prosumers. Biomass is beneficial for the Polish economy, and solutions in this law go in this direction. The project promotes energy clusters, as was discussed here today. Prosumers can be not only natural persons, but also e.g. schools or parishes. The bill contains clear, secure, transparent settlement solutions for prosumers. A very important issue - the law introduces abolition for all those prosumers who have not yet fulfilled the information obligation, which is unnecessary, to the extent that energy suppliers could check their own data. The Energy Regulatory Office will not have to initiate 4,000. proceedings for the sum of 1 000. zł in the case of one person. In the Act there are friendly rules for farmers, because 0,65% energy must be produced; it must come from agricultural biogas. Another important issue - the Minister of Energy was equipped with tools for effective management of the energy mix, i.e. to promote solutions beneficial for the Polish economy instead of blind imports of photovoltaics or windmills from Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, Poland does not have to be a European prime minister in renewable energy sources at the expense of wallets of Polish families. And we will not take part in such a reckless race at the expense of Polish families. Poland will quietly comply with the standards to which we are committed by 2020, but there is no point, and there is no need for the Polish economy to raise prices for its customers, promoting the most capricious and unstable energy sources. Instead, we focus on these solutions, which are beneficial for the Polish economy and for Polish prosumers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u358	Thank you. [[In corrigendum mode.]] In the procedure of correcting Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u359	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I do not agree with what the Member has said. The Renewable Energy Act was adopted on 15 February Ub. R., Mr, and what you said is not true. On the other hand, when it comes to the increase in energy prices on the prosumer, if there were fixed tariffs and at the maximum amount planned, it would be 40 gr per bill. We're not talking about windmills, we're talking about large production, we're talking about prosumer, we're talking about renewable energy for small civic production. Thank you very much. [[One more sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u360	Please, just please don't do polemics, because...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, I have pointed out the shortcomings in the previous law, that many solutions were lacking, even though you were 8 years old. And 4,000. people who today would have to live the proceedings conducted by URE, and URE, who would have to conduct these proceedings, to initiate them, that is, a huge bureaucratic work. This is one of the positives of this bill. After the eight years you've had, with all due respect, it's hard for us to agree, we'll stick to our sentences. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, one sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u362	Thank you. The Minister resigns. If the Minister has resigned, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u363	Mr. Marshal, one sentence. Then the question is: Then why did the PiS support such a solution? Because you voted for it. [[Because then it was the lesser evil.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u364	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Labour Code and certain other laws (Prints Nos 608 and 634). I ask Mr Jan Mosiński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After considering the Law amending the Labour Code and some other laws, the Senate decided to introduce two amendments to its text, which today the Social Policy and Family Committee adopted unanimously. I therefore ask the High House to accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u366	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u367	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! I was honoured to present the position of the Law and Justice Club to the High House in relation to the Senate's resolution, printing No. 608, on the Law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws, print No. 382 and 453. I would just like to remind you that this law brings Polish labour law into line with Directive 2006/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006. The aim of the Act is to introduce the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in employment and to adapt authorisations to Article. 92. 1st Constitution of the Republic of Poland. As early as 2014 the European Commission recognised the provisions of Article. 176 The Labour Code is incompatible with the provisions of Directive 2002/73/EC on the introduction of the principle of equal treatment between men and women as regards access to employment and training and promotion of employment and working conditions. The current article. 176 refers to all women, not just pregnant women. On 13 May, after considering the law adopted by the Sejm, the Senate tabled two amendments. These are editorial, complementary and precise amendments. They give two articles a new, clearer sound. In addition, Amendment 2 takes into account the Legislative Techniques Directive. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The parliamentary club will support both amendments tabled by the Senate in print No 608. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u368	Thank you, Member. I ask for the floor of Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the committee's report on the Senate's resolution on amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws. The report is contained in print No 634 and the Senate resolution in print No 608. The Senate has made two amendments. One concerns the amendment of Article. § 179 § 1 and § 2 The Labour Code, while the second amendment concerns Article. 48 (1) (a) 9 Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. In addition, the second amendment takes account of the Directive contained in § 158 of the Legislative Rules. The Civic Platform supports these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u370	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Romecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Labour Code Act, print No. 608. After considering the law, the Senate decided to amend two amendments to its text. Namely in the article. 179 § 1 and 2 of the Labour Code, which currently refers to the list of work prohibited from pregnant women and breastfeeding the child to Article. 176, the Senate proposes that, following the entry into force of the amendment of the law, this provision should indicate Article. § 176 § 2. Amendment 2, however, aligns the provisions of the Act with the Directive contained in the Legislative Rules. In conclusion, it must be said that the Senate amendments generally consist of editorial changes resulting from the principles of correct legislation. The Senate does not propose substantive amendments that radically change the shape of the bill. The Kukiz Club is therefore not making any comments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u372	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Augustynowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, it turns out that fast does not mean good, and in the case of this draft law it lasts from 30 March, today it is 22 June, or 3 months. I would like to conclude that the project is intended solely for the implementation of European Union law and that the European Union has imposed an obligation on all Member States to implement it by 15 August 2008. As a result, at last in 2016 someone took care of it. In fact, the Senate's amendments relate to incorrect references and to the fact that this draft law uses rules that are not in line with the legislative technique rules, so these are purely technical errors that simply need to be eliminated. In this situation, of course, the Modern Parliamentary Club will support these amendments of the Senate. On the other hand, it is worth considering for the future whether the laws quickly introduced and written on the knee serve something, especially when the project is designed to implement European Union law, which I will repeat, and to implement the principles of equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in the labour market, and thus really the foundation for the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u374	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas. There's no envoy? There isn't. In that case, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law, which concerns the Senate's resolution, was prepared to amend the article. 176 The Labour Code in view of the need to ensure the correct transposition of the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in the field of employment and occupation, and to adapt the authorisation to the requirements of the Article. 92. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. For the sake of order, I would just like to remind you that the amendments made by the High House to the laws are intended to protect pregnant women and breast-feeding women from carrying out work which is burdensome, dangerous or harmful to health, which may adversely affect women's health, pregnancy or breast-feeding. The High House considered these amendments to be right and they were adopted unanimously. After considering the law, the Senate decided to amend the text of the law in its second amendment. These are amendments specifying the provisions of the Act, improving its consistency and the quality of the legislative act adopted, while maintaining the idea adopted by the High Chamber of amendments. Therefore, near Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u376	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The resolution adopted by the Senate introduces two amendments which are typically legislative in nature. They do not change the nature of the law or affect the changes it introduces. The government welcomes these amendments, does not raise any objections and believes that the Sejm should take them into account in the further process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u378	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the rapporteur resign? [[Thank you.]] Thank you. In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party regarding the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. The proposed amendment is based on clarification of the Article. 176 The Labour Code, which states that work which is burdensome, dangerous or harmful to health cannot be performed by pregnant women and breast-feeding children. The amendment stems from the European Commission's reservations, which, in its view, is discriminatory as it implies that it refers to all women, not just pregnant and breast-feeding women. The novel is a step in the right direction. It is worth noting that it balances the situation of women and men in the labour market while protecting the rights and health of pregnant women. It will also regulate the situation of pregnant and nursing women in the army. The novel rightly provides for a new list of work that can have an adverse effect on women's health, pregnancy or breast-feeding. Knowledge of the impact of working conditions and working environment factors on women's health, pregnancy and feeding should be used in determining the list. According to the Polish People's Party, this is a good direction. It is worth remembering, however, that the law is one thing, and now the government will probably issue regulations resulting from it. And here's the appeal to the government: Because you're going the right way, don't mess it up with bad regulations. We will vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u380	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. High Seym, I'm declaring a three-minute technical recess. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 09 h 17 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. You're already an MP. We are pleased to see you, sir. Scheduled agenda items: 25. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products, as well as 26. The report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws will not be considered at the current meeting of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on the departments of government administration and some other laws (print No 642). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u381	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Print No 642, Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, I would call it a cleaning law, refers directly to the statutory changes in the administrative departments of a few months ago. At that time new ministries were created and this law is a consequence of those changes, and I want to make this very clear. No new institutions are created, no new departments are created, no increase in employment in the state administration, no change in the powers of the state administration. The aim is to clear some competences between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction and the Ministry of Development and between the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. In particular, as regards the former Ministry of Infrastructure and Development, two ministries were created: the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. And that's where the transfer of powers comes in. As far as MSWiA is concerned, geodesia and cartography are excluded and incorporated into the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. There is also an adaptation of the nomenclature associated with the relevant ministries. The explanatory memorandum sets out in detail all departments that are transferred between these ministries. In view of the existing competences of the Minister responsible for construction, planning and land-use and housing, the project envisages two changes in the transfer of powers to other ministers in view of their substantive competence. The first of these amendments shall be provided for in Article. 2 point 2 of the draft amendment of the Law of 31 January 1959 on cemeteries and the hiding of the dead. It involves amending the competent authority to issue a regulation setting out the requirements for cemeteries, graves and other burial sites. Thus, with regard to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction and the Ministry of Development, these competences are shared among these ministers from the former Ministry of Infrastructure and Development. Ladies and gentlemen, opinions have been attached to this printing. As regards matters relating to European Union law, the draft law amending the Law on the departments of government and certain other laws remains outside the scope of European Union law. The other opinions of the Sejm Analysis Office are also positive and these changes do not conflict. Please consider this draft law and refer it to the relevant Sejm committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u382	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Anna Krupka, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law provides for a number of technical changes related to the change in the structure of the government administration department, currently construction, spatial planning and development and housing. It is necessary to amend the legislation in force by changing the name of the Minister responsible for this department by replacing the words "minister responsible for construction, local planning and spatial planning and housing' by "minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing'. Amendment to Article 23a The law on the departments of government consists in clarifying in point 2 that the regional development of regional policy programming and implementation includes urban policy and the coordination of programmes and actions for the regeneration of socially and economically degraded areas. The draft also provides for the repeal of Article. 23a point 2a, which is the consequence of the amendments introduced by the Law of 19 November 2015 amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws which provide that all matters relating to spatial planning and development, without further differentiation to local, national and regional level, will fall within the competence of the Minister responsible for construction, spatial planning and development and housing. In addition, the project provides for the separation from the existing competence of the Minister responsible for regional development in the preparation and reconciliation of voivodship spatial planning plans and the definition of functional areas and the assignment of these tasks to the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing. As regards the Law of 27 March 2003 on spatial planning and development, an amendment was introduced to repeal the statutory authorisation contained in the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. As a result of a review of the existing competences of the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing, the project envisages two changes in the transfer of powers to other ministers in view of their substantive competence. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request that the project be submitted to work in the relevant Infrastructure Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u384	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u385	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Government Departments Act and some other laws, print No. 642. Of course, I will repeat myself again, but this is another parliamentary project, and yet another project, which is marked by an urgent mode, contains in its records amendments to about 50 laws, as well as the previous project on government departments, the previous law, which amended several dozen entries in various laws. We always hear that applicants point to the need for change so as not to interfere with the work of newly created resorts. Of course, we accept it, we understand it, but we always stress that these projects are prepared quickly, urgently, even on our knees and often so that the first, second and third readings are carried out during one sitting. And that's what we keep saying, because it happens every time. And today's project. We understand the provisions showing that you have reviewed the competence of the Minister responsible for construction, planning and land-use and housing to date and that you envisage changes in the transfer of powers to other ministers in view of their substantive competence. We also find provisions to make changes in the structure of the government administration, construction, planning and land-use and housing, specifying that matters of regeneration are in the area of matters falling within this section, excluding those arising from the implementation of regional policy in the field of revitalization of socially and economically degraded areas. You envisage a change in the scope of the Technical Supervision Office, which is to be subject to the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing, according to the project. It is also proposed to clarify the provision that regional development in the area of regional policy programming and implementation includes urban policy and coordination of programmes and actions for the regeneration of socially and economically degraded areas. There are also provisions on changes resulting precisely from the previous amendment of the Government Departments Act, in which you provide that all matters relating to spatial planning and development, without further differentiation to local, national and regional levels, will be within the competence of the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing. These changes probably need to happen, while, in addition to the substantive changes you are writing about here, in addition to changing the names and the competences of the relevant ministers, there are provisions for which I would ask for clarification. And this happens for every project you present, just as far as the government departments are concerned - that you are putting in records that are, unfortunately, questionable. Same thing happened this time. The draft provides for an amendment to the Law of 9 October 2015 on revitalisation, which includes the addition of a provision authorising the Minister responsible for regional development to issue, in agreement with the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing, a regulation laying down criteria and indicators for areas of regeneration enabling the financing of municipal regeneration programmes from funds from the budget of the European Union or the State budget. I would very much ask for information on what is under this provision, what will be included in this regulation, what are the criteria, what indicators and what will this be? effects on local authorities. We are afraid of the desire for ministerial control and planning for local governments. Therefore, these questions will also appear at the meeting of the relevant committees, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which, as a Civic Platform club, we request - that this project be submitted to the relevant committees for further processing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u386	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u387	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I am pleased to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws from print No. 642. You'd like to say again. On behalf of the Modern Club, I'd like to present our position. I'm going to be very specific here, so without delay, I'm going to go over the details. This project introduces a number of changes, among others. the law amends the competence of the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing. According to the project, part of the Minister's competence to date would be assigned to other ministers, as the applicants point out, to their substantive competence. The first of these amendments shall be provided for in Article. 2 point 2 of the draft amendment to the article. 20 Law of 31 January 1959 on cemeteries and the hiding of the dead. This amendment involves amending the body responsible for issuing a regulation setting out the requirements that cemeteries, graves and other burial sites must fulfil. According to the proposal, this regulation would now be issued by the Minister of Health, but in agreement with the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing and with the Minister of the Environment. The second of these amendments is foreseen in Article. 41 (2) of the draft amendment of the Article. 17a Law of 20 March 2009 on the security of mass events. The amendment would consist of a change in the authority authorised to issue a regulation from the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning to the Minister for Home Affairs, concerning the issuing of a regulation laying down technical requirements for the infrastructure of the sectors in the stadiums where standing places are made available. As the applicants point out, both the cemetery and the stadium are not buildings, but are buildings, and consequently the Minister responsible for construction is not the competent authority to determine the technical requirements for such facilities. The draft also provides for an amendment to the Law of 9 October 2015 on revitalisation by adding a provision authorising the Minister for Regional Development to issue, in agreement with the Minister for Construction, a regulation laying down criteria and indicators for areas of regeneration enabling the financing of municipal regeneration programmes from funds from the budget of the European Union or the State budget. Here, like my previous speaker, I would very much like to ask you to present the reasons behind this and the consequences for the municipalities involved in this provision. We believe that this is an important change, an important provision. It may have consequences, so please give us a detailed justification for this provision. The proposed law also provides for amendments to the Article. Article 9a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Act of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration in the structure of government administration: Construction, spatial planning and development and housing. According to the applicants, the amendment is to clarify the scope of cases falling within this heading, excluding those arising from the implementation of regional policy on the rehabilitation of socially and economically degraded areas. The draft also provides for amendments to the Article. 23a Law on administrative departments consisting of clarification in point 2 of that provision. According to the project under the heading: Regional development of the area of regional policy programming and implementation will now include urban policy and coordination of programmes and actions for the regeneration of socially and economically degraded areas. The consequence of this amendment is the repeal of point 2b of Article. 23a. At the same time, the draft provides for the repeal of the Article. 23a point 2a, as a result of the amendments introduced by the Law of 19 November 2015, which provided that all land-use planning and development cases without further distinction to local, national and regional level would fall within the competence of the Minister responsible for construction. With regard to the Law of 27 March 2003 on spatial planning and development, amendments are made to receive the statutory authorisation contained in the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. This authorisation concerns matter, which is largely the matter of the law. It is therefore not possible to issue a Regulation on its basis. These changes, according to the applicant, will not undermine the ability of military authorities to influence the planning system. We also have doubts about the changes in the Technical Supervision Office, which under the law would be subject to the Minister responsible for matters [[♪ The bell ♪]] construction, planning and spatial planning and housing. Please explain this change in detail. Of course, the Modern Posel Club is in favour of referring the bill to committee work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u388	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill that we are debating today at first reading is, of course, the consequence of further action, which is the result of the 19 November amendment of the law on government departments. It is clear from the statements made by my previous speakers, the rapporteur, from the text of the project under consideration, that the project is aimed at precise division, identification, designation of boundaries and identification of relations concerning the interaction of individual resorts, which were identified as a result of the 19 November Act. In our view, this is logical, and if we can still be convinced, I think that this project is also intended in the long term to create good, appropriate, convenient conditions, so that in these inter-ministerial relations all this will have a good impact on the possibility of good economic development, the implementation of actions, tasks and the possibility of supporting these actions with external funds, i.e. - as we call them - from EU funds. I think that these identified areas, which the rapporteur has discussed and discussed my predecessors, give us hope. I want to point out here in particular, and I am convinced that, while working in committees, we will talk about this, in this area, which talks about mutual relations, which will help us to define the tasks, their mechanisms that we will be able to apply when we are revitalizing, as well as building revitalization. We have experience here from the last programming period 2007-2013, we know that there are expectations about this programming period that has started, and in my opinion it would be good if in many cases we could combine the revitalization in the historical, construction area with the possibility of functioning and high usefulness of these facilities for social or economic life. Furthermore, we will also propose that we also refer here to demoted areas, because I know that there are resources in regional operational programmes that could be used in strategic intervention areas. Furthermore, an important element in whether the area of action will be the interplay of issues relating to the preparation of spatial planning plans, and here I think we will be able to talk in committee about the proper drafting, preparation and rethinking of these provisions. I think that these relationships, which are indicated to be acceptable, between resorts or internal affairs, or health, or the location of the Technical Supervision Office - have a chance to perform their role well in life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u390	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Minister Tomasz Żuchowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u391	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, this draft departmental law, just like it's left here. is indicated as a technical project which at the moment the consequences of the division between the various ministries are introduced in special laws to replace the appropriate nomenclature with the name used after the amendment of the departmental law. Therefore, I would ask for support for these actions, which also give guarantees and the possibility of continuing the functioning of the institutions in an undistorted way, issuing regulations, statutory changes, etc., etc. I would therefore ask you to accept this proposal and vote in favour of further proceding it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u392	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur? You're welcome. Applicant, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u393	Thank you for paying attention to several aspects of this project. This is particularly about the speech, the speech by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, as well as the question of Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska on municipal regeneration programmes. This is actually an important thing. It is important to be aware that the municipalities have so far had very different revitalization programmes and there have been no uniform rules, criteria and indicators at national level that are consistent across the country. When we talk about EU money and national money, it is important that these criteria and indicators are included in the Single Regulation so that there is no discretion among officials, whether a given revitalisation programme should be implemented or not, so that local governments have the right to observe uniform criteria and indicators across the country. Of course, where the municipality uses only its own money, the law does not touch it and national law does not affect it, these areas can be revitalized by the municipality according to municipal programmes and according to criteria or indicators to be developed in the municipality. I would like to make it very clear that only where such a programme affects national money and EU money. It seems to me that this will be a much fairer approach to municipalities if there is a regulation that will be clear for the whole country. As regards the detailed questions - there were a number of them - which Mr Mirosław Suchoń asked, I think that during the work of the Committee on Infrastructure, when the project will be considered, all these questions will be answered, of course, with the help of the officials of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u394	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws contained in print No 642, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the Ombudsman of Entrepreneur's Rights (Print No 573). I ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the applicants a draft law on the Ombudsman of Entrepreneur's Rights in print No 573. High Izbo! Currently, in the Republic of Poland there is an institution of the Ombudsman: civil rights, children's rights, patients, pupils, insured persons and consumers. Only the ombudsman and the ombudsman have constitutional authority. The institution of the ombudsman, hereinafter referred to as the RPP, is a concept based on the experience and reflections of the first social ombudsman of the Polish Confederation of Private Employers Lewiatan. Such a public spokesperson was active in 2003 and 2004. The task of this social Ombudsman was to defend the interests of entrepreneurs in conflict situations to which the State is party, the institutions of the State. Disputes between entrepreneurs, employers and employees were not within the remit of the ombudsman. The ombudsman would be important and important for small and medium-sized enterprises, since the Ombudsman's interest is mainly in systemic matters, large, requiring systemic solutions, while small entrepreneurs, especially those who start business, are deprived of professional legal services. For them these are very often difficult cases, very often such companies, such enterprises have no care and fall, are outside the interest of state institutions. The appointment of an ombudsman would also guarantee individual entrepreneurs, this small, real exercise of their rights. Today, a group of small and medium-sized enterprises employs about 6.5 million workers. This shows how important this social group is when it comes to creating our national income, creating jobs, and therefore requires special support. I think we should all care about giving them such legal assistance, such support. We believe that this is appropriate in view of the need for such an institution from different sides. In fact, the emergence of the Invincible 2012 movement, which is now bringing together all those who have been somehow wronged by state institutions, by state authorities, and have not found any rational, positive decision. As far as the exercise of its rights is concerned, as I said, the Ombudsman is not always able because of a large group of heavier cases, if one can so determine whether these systems deal with small business cases. Sources of funding, because I'm sure that's the kind of question that's gonna come up. This would be within the range of PLN 10 million. This is the budget that the Ombudsman has today. The Ombudsman's budget is over PLN 35 million. What would be the ombudsman's competence? Because he would take matters on his own initiative and lead them to a decision or to a decision by certain institutions or bodies. Forms of decisions could be very different. The institution would have 30 days to take the case. How would an entrepreneur's lawyer be empowered in a way? He would be appointed by the Sejm with the consent of the Senate at the request of the Marshal of the Sejm or a group of 35 Members. The procedure for submitting candidates to the Ombudsman would be laid down by a resolution of the Sejm on the appointment of an ombudsman. The term of office would last five years from the date of the oath. The same person could not serve for two consecutive terms. The earlier termination of the term of office may result only from the resignation of the Ombudsman from his post, his death or his dismissal. The Ombudsman in his business would be independent of other state bodies, which is important, and would only be accountable to the Sejm. In order to secure this independence, he would be protected by formal immunity. Impacts on the state budget and for local governments. We propose that the Ombudsman should be financed by part of the funds paid by the entrepreneurs to the Labour Fund. Entrepreneurs very often point out that not always the funds they pay to the Labour Fund are properly used by them or are not used to carry out their tasks. In fact, this would be a compensation that would enable businesses to operate better and have practically zero implications for the state budget, as this would be included in the measures that entrepreneurs themselves pay for the Labour Fund. Thus, for local government budgets, the financial consequences would also be zero. Our project is compatible with European Union law and does not fall under the competence of EU law. Therefore, I ask the High House to take further work and adopt the act on the Ombudsman of civil works, excuse me, employers... [[Entrepreneurs.]] ...entrepreneurs. This would be the fulfillment of this function, which was already mentioned in this Chamber today. Yesterday we celebrated Entrepreneur's Day, which in principle brings nothing material, is such a symbolic solution and honoring entrepreneurs, and here we offer a concrete solution, a concrete proposal that allows entrepreneurs to function better and settle disputes between the entrepreneur and the state, generally speaking, whether the institutions of the state. I would ask you, Marshal, to continue to proceed and adopt this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u396	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Adam Abramowicz, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Entrepreneur's work in Poland is extremely difficult, complicated and we have known for years that in rankings of various institutions Poland is rather those in the back, places of disbelief. What are entrepreneurs complaining about? First of all, for unclear, complicated law, long-term proceedings of tax authorities and courts, the lack of liability of officials and judges related to the lack of transparency of disciplinary proceedings. Is this project that submitted today to the Polish People's Party a remedy for these problems? Well, for eight years, PSL held a very significant office in the government, because the Minister of Economy, and for these eight years entrepreneurs hoped that all these shortcomings would be removed, that economic activity could be carried out more easily. What did they see? The duplicate instructions from the Ministry of Finance, which said that each audit was to end with an additional amount, because otherwise the official will be judged negatively, tax interpretations backwards, which destroyed entire sectors of the economy. They waited years to return VAT because the proceedings were chronic and no one was able to speed them up. Today we have this project and in the explanatory memorandum we read that basically the function offered by PSL, the ombudsman, can be exercised by the ombudsman, because all the prerogatives of this ombudsman fall within the power of the ombudsman. And why shouldn't the ombudsman do that and the new bureaucratic institution? Because we read in the explanatory memorandum that: in dealing with a few business cases, there is little interest in the Ombudsman's institution in business matters. Maybe it's better to discipline the spokesperson so he can take care of these matters rather than create a new office? What will you do if this new office is too slow to deal with business matters? Will you call another spokesperson? I think this is the way to nowhere. As far as the financial implications are concerned, you say there will be no budgetary implications. But after all, the Labour Fund is created from the contributions of entrepreneurs and it is part of the budget. So if we run out of money in the Labour Fund, we know that there will be an increase in the contribution, and besides, entrepreneurs use this fund themselves, for example. receive money for hiring unemployed or training workers. So what you're saying is that it's not going to matter to the budget, it's not real. As far as the Ombudsman's competence is concerned, you write: the possibility of asking the competent authorities, organisations or institutions to take action in their fields of competence for the entrepreneur. After all, Members have such competences and use them. The voters come to our offices and report to us various problems that later... [[Voice from the room: And you can't do anything.]] They haven't been able to do anything for eight years, for the last eight years, and now they're turning to problems, and we're translating these problems into bill designs. They also have unions, associations, chambers that also address the President, the Ombudsman or the Sejm. The same is true of proposals for a legislative initiative. There are already opportunities that give us institutions that are already established in Poland. Now the situation is that you have to find a remedy for what I said at the beginning, for unclear and complicated law, for the long-term conduct of tax authorities and courts, for the lack of accountability of officials. There's an answer to that, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Moravian plan. The High House has already heard these assumptions. This plan assumes that the law will be simple, that there will be a review of laws, unnecessary provisions [[♪ The bell ♪]] Entrepreneurs will be eliminated. As regards the reform of the tax services so that there is no chronicity of proceedings, the finance minister Paweł Szalamacha told the High House that he intended to shorten the duration of the checks and gave concrete ways to do so. Finally, improving the activities of the courts. Minister Ziobro, in front of the High House, pointed out what to do to shorten the process, and secondly, to hold officials and judges accountable...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u398	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u399	...through transparency - I'm already finishing - the process. So instead of creating a new bureaucratic institution, we will change the economic reality in Poland by normal methods.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u400	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u401	That is why Law and Justice is applying for the rejection of this project at first reading, and this proposal is what I am delivering to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u402	Thank you kindly, sir. I would like the floor of Mrs Mirosława Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u403	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I don't see the Minister. The Minister's not here. Why? My question is who represents the government in this case, Marshal. There isn't, there isn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u404	There is a Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz. Oh, there's the minister, I see. Hello. High Izbo, many studies show that there is a demand for the establishment of an ombudsman institution, because 70% researched small and medium-sized companies are in favour of the appointment of an institution of the Ombudsman. Although more than half said that she had no problems with referral to the RPP, but 40% it said yes to that question. It is a large group and it is also worth learning from the activities of the Ombudsman of business rights set up by Leviathan. The Ombudsman's task will be to defend the interests of entrepreneurs in conflict situations where the State is party. Entrepreneurs are a particularly important category of citizens, of whom the rulers do not always remember. When they should create convenient conditions for action, they don't remember, but in the campaign they remember, regardless of the political option, the one who rules. [[And how did you vote on this bill in your previous term of office?]] In confronting the arguments of the state, these representatives of entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are without a chance. They can't afford a vocation, hiring lawyers, experts, etc. Of course, we would like to say that it is better to create convenient conditions, simple rules of law, and that is our duty as parliamentarians and subsequent governments, but it is not. We have a young democracy, we all learn how to interact. As a former manager and entrepreneur, I can say that entrepreneurs cannot count on understanding officials. I don't care which option would rule. Officials are unable and yet do not create an atmosphere of understanding for entrepreneurs who are not necessarily fraudsters, but do not understand the rules because there are too many of them, they are inconsistent, execution is not the best. I believe that the Ombudsman's actions would be justified. I will tell you more, according to the justification of the project, about 1 000 are coming to the WSA every year. business matters. Foreign companies are often involved, and the RPO, which Mr Abramowicz spoke about, i.e. the Ombudsman, due to the number of cases, because, as I remember, in 2014 about 57 thousand were received. cases, deals with solving more systemic problems, much larger caliber. [[These are systemic problems.]] Therefore, it is unable, looking at the budget, at the possibilities, at solving these problems and statistics, that you have certainly followed it up, show that it does not solve matters that affect it. And we have about 2 million companies, various statistics, we say there are about 2 million active entrepreneurs, which gives us 6th place in the European Union, which is what we are proud of, and about 9 million people are employed in these companies, of which over 6 million are employed in small and medium-sized companies. Therefore, it is very important to create the best conditions for their development and functioning, and you know that very well, but since the rulers have shown great ignorance in the treatment of this group of citizens, without showing understanding for their needs... Let me give you an example, not so long ago you wanted to tax Polish commercial networks, and you announced in the campaign that you would fight against foreign networks. If it had not been for the protests, if it hadn't been for the upheaval, the Member here wouldn't have denied it because he fought for it, it would have happened. [[Consulting, consulting.]] No, it wasn't a consultation, it was already a fight with you... [[Consulting on the street.]] ...and you just stepped down under pressure. I'm convinced... And yet now you are creating some laws on execution supposedly under the guise of VAT execution, such as the blood in your veins freezes, if they enter into execution for entrepreneurs - they already report to the parliamentary offices and ask for intervention. Looking rationally at the government's budget policy, it is to be expected to drain the pockets of entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, as a Civic Platform, we believe that the establishment of an ombudsman institution is needed, and we will support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Jachnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wonder whether to speak to you as a Member or as an entrepreneur, because for 35 years I have carried on an economic activity, please, and I do not know if anyone has finally wondered why there are spokesmen. Well, the advocates are because inefficient Members create the law. We're about to have a farmer's spokesperson, a beekeeper's spokesperson, a spokesperson who doesn't know who yet. Ladies and gentlemen, I think everyone in this room should draw conclusions, because I will honestly admit that I am 8 months in the Seym, and how I look at the proceding style, the rat race, the flying here, the speakerium, so that I can be registered by the cameras, and the stupid things that are being done, the obstructions at the Parliamentary Committee meetings, where we should proceed with wise solutions, I wonder if I should leave this mandate and go home. Let's start creating. This is the fact that the entrepreneur has a hard time, it's the fact that the entrepreneur creates jobs, it's the fact that the entrepreneur pays taxes, and it's the fact that the entrepreneur is being treated like a dog today. It's all true, but we can't solve it with a spokesperson. We're gonna solve this by creating a real, serious and friendly law... [[But he's gone, and he's gone.]] ...lowening production costs. It's the only way we're gonna solve this. There's a spokesperson for the rights of the child... [[It will be, I told you it would be.]] Yesterday, you heard the Ombudsman's report, two hours of reading. What did you learn from this? It was embarrassing for me personally. There's an ombudsman. These two institutions in the Constitution are completely failing to pass the test. We want to create another five institutions that won't take any exams again. Ladies and gentlemen, I have this formal conclusion, a little funny, Mr. Marshal, but very serious at the same time. I would suggest, on my own behalf, that the use of the iPad should be allowed only during the presentation of the opinions of the clubs, while the questions, please, on the bill, learn to deal with them because walking with this tablet and reading the same questions 30 times is simply a disgrace to this House. You can't even afford to ask a substantive question. [[Stop.]] I guess not, mostly not. [[I'm done.]] Well, it's a good thing the cameras are recording here because you can see those runners flying to the platform and reading from the iPad. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the right way to create. [[That's what Mr Kukiza does, they read.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not address you, nor these Members, nor those Members. I appeal to you: we will best take care of entrepreneurs if we fight - and then you will surely find allies also in us - for transparent, clear, clear tax rules as well as for lowering labour costs, and that will not be done by any spokesman - it is simply a cheap, propaganda trick, sir. [[Dear, dear.]] Of course, that's an extra right. How many ombudsman jobs does he have? It's over 300. How many jobs does a child's attorney have? How many jobs will the entrepreneur's attorney have? Tell me. [[We just need to find out how much he's got.]] That's what we're gonna give them. It doesn't matter how many complaints the Ombudsman has responded to... [[Ten million.]] ...how many things he's done on behalf of the citizens. [[I'll tell you.]] There won't be a spokesperson there. I know very well - and Mrs Nykiel also knows - these matters... [[There's the applicant.]] ...because we rode together as I fought, and I know perfectly well what your spokesperson's activity is, and I know perfectly well what the ministry's activity is. Really, ladies and gentlemen, let's leave the divisions at this point, because entrepreneurs operate both in the PO, and in the Modern, and in the PiS, and in Kukiza. Let us take on the right to create a business-friendly, job-friendly law. You can't prosecute for fraud, for example. The VAT person who paid VAT, and only because the seller of the goods did not return VAT, races the person who was honest and paid. And it's our fault, ladies and gentlemen, [[Applause]] Ours, this room. Let's get this over with, and let's not play with the spokesperson, 'cause we're all gonna go crazy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Excuse me, on behalf of the Kukiz Club, I request that this project be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u406	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Schmidt.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Modern Club on the draft Act on the Advocate for Entrepreneur's Rights. The Polish State, regardless of whether it was governed by the Civic Platform and PSL... [[Do you always have to hit us?]] ...is now ruled by the PiS, has never been business-friendly. [[It's already been done.]] All the rulers of the past have been accompanied by the belief that, if you can put pressure on someone, it is the entrepreneurs. I am not talking about big corporations or foreign capital companies, I am speaking on behalf of small and medium-sized enterprises. [[That is why we have created a bill on freedom of business.]] Even current government ideas, such as the idea of a hypermarket tax, are hitting them. We expect it to be similar at the time of the increase in the minimum wage. It's the smallest entrepreneurs who will feel the burden most. [[What does this lady know about entrepreneurs?]] Given the fact that entrepreneurs are alone in numerous disputes with the State, with public administration, in this context the appointment of an ombudsman would seem reasonable, but this is a typical appearance. I myself was an entrepreneur for 12 years, I ran a small company that I started from scratch. I was also a chancellor at a non-public university that had to maintain itself. [[What do you mean? She had a donation.]] No, non-public universities don't have any grants, they don't get any dollars from the state. Students get money from the state budget, the university has to earn every dollar on its own. That's how I know what the pains of the entrepreneur are. I am also currently consulting our program and laws with entrepreneurs. What they need is simple regulations. Entrepreneurs really just don't get in the way, they don't have high expectations. Low and easy to settle taxes - let us simply reduce fiscal burdens. Let us remember that every dollar an entrepreneur spends better, more efficiently than the state. However, what can we see in Poland? Bank tax has been introduced in the last six months, and now the Sejm is working on another new retail tax. [[Is this for the small or corporate?]] The minimum hourly rate that hits small entrepreneurs the most. There are other tax ideas waiting in line. Stable law - that's what entrepreneurs need. Only in the sense of security and stability will entrepreneurs develop, invest, employ workers under increasingly better conditions. A friendly climate for investment. The fundamental principle in democratic countries is compliance with the law, the constitution. The actions of the PiS striking at the tribunal, at the institution of the Constitutional Tribunal, caused it to evaporate huge capital from the stock exchange. Not introducing laws that block investment, such as the agricultural law. Stable gold - that's what entrepreneurs need, both small and larger. It is not necessary to be an economist to understand that various factors affect the economy: law, social moods, relations with foreign partners, whereas this law does not solve any of the above problems. Do you really believe that the ombudsman is able to solve any of these problems? In addition, the proposed law contains confusion, errors that should be clarified or clarified. There is, for example, a concern expressed by the Office of Sejm Analysis regarding the education of the Ombudsman. In the context of the Act, which we adopted on 22 December 2015, within the framework of the Polish Qualifications Framework and the professional qualifications of the Master are related to the completion of studies in Poland, which limits the selection of these candidates very much. The second point - clarification of the requirement to complete legal studies alone is restrictive. Why can't they be people who end management or just people with a lot of experience, with other education? I also have doubts about the article. 6 point 3 of the draft law, which indicates which positions the Ombudsman may not hold. It cannot perform a pro bono function in foundations where it does not perform any paid functions. Fourthly, we want to draw attention to the article. 9, which states: the Ombudsman shall not take matters in which the trader is party to the proceedings. I think the exception here could be between entrepreneurs and employees. I believe that exceptions should be taken into account in cases involving specific commercial law entities such as Treasury companies or companies with a dominant position of the Treasury. One last thing. It should be noted that the Ombudsman is currently dealing with business affairs. He has much more powers in the Constitution, much more budget. There is doubt about the funding from the Labour Fund. It's not like that money comes from heaven. Without spending it on an ombudsman, it could be used in a different way. High Seym! In the philosophy of thinking about a modern country we want to promote simple and transparent solutions, because only such solutions can create a good climate to drive [[♪ The bell ♪]] business activity. We do not support the bill on the Ombudsman's rights, we argue against it at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u408	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u409	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will not be as cruel to entrepreneurs as my predecessors, because they often denied themselves. The Club of the Polish People's Party submitted this request because these are the expectations of entrepreneurs and these expectations are increasing at the moment. It is not true that right now we already have all the problems solved, these problems are beginning to get worse. I have not come across any positive solution that would better serve entrepreneurs, simplify the law, remove administrative barriers. I haven't met with anything like that, and I would say, sir, it's been a year. Up to 8 years, and up to 4 years, very close. [[Half, sir, you can't count to 12.]] Time runs, and people ask, "What's next? I wouldn't hide behind Morawiecki's plan here, because the plan... [[In the woods.]] ...as was the plan to help our entrepreneurs, our traders by limiting the impact of large foreign entrepreneurs, and yet it turned out that it was the other way around, so such actions are inappropriate. It is wrong to say that nothing has been done about the return of VAT, because it was during that term that VAT refund was done and has been significantly accelerated for entrepreneurs. As far as I remember, at least half the time was cut short, so talking like that isn't true either. As far as the Ombudsman is concerned, well, let the Ombudsman defend his rights. You're sorry he can't do it because he's got too much work to do. Then why did you take money from the Ombudsman? [[But who said the spokesperson had too much to do? I'm sure it wasn't me.]] There's no consistency here, Mr. President. You have to help entrepreneurs, then create a branch of the ombudsman or appoint a representative of the ombudsman for business affairs. Finally help the entrepreneurs, not just talk. You announced business day yesterday. And what's behind this? How do you fulfill these obligations to entrepreneurs? I would like to say that the Polish People's Party will present a project in the coming week, a whole package of proposals, in terms of entrepreneurs, concrete solutions, such as meet these expectations, instead of just saying that something will happen, that we are helping. A package of concrete solutions, as we have also done in previous terms. The three deregulation laws, the Member himself knows, because he participated in these discussions and you yourself voted in favour of these solutions, and I will remind you once again about the deregulation laws, and he said that they are good, that we need to go even further. What was done at the moment? Nothing's been done. A year goes by, sir, nothing has been done in this regard, which is why I regret. The problems that entrepreneurs have aren't gonna solve themselves. Here we cannot be enchanted that the miracle will happen and all the problems that affect entrepreneurs will disappear, that suddenly, from tomorrow or next week the state administration will become friendly to entrepreneurs and there will be no problems. Mr President, there must be institutions which, however, have a certain power which will feel responsible for this, which the Sejm will appoint for these functions. Of course, it would be perfect if the law were so perfect and so business-friendly that all of this would happen. But if that is your wish, sir, we will send all the problems of all the entrepreneurs back to the parliamentary offices. [[What are you saying?]] The PiS Offices, of course, because there will be a solution to the problem and a solution to the matter. If that's what you think... That's a very good solution too. [[This can't be right.]] If anyone comes to my office, I'll direct them because I have the addresses of a few Members nearby... [[Please, you drive, and we listen to people...]] It's not enough to listen, you have to solve problems. Therefore, on behalf of the Polish People's Party, I would like to declare, Mr Marshal, that we are in favour of this project and we regret that PiS is against it here. [[Not just the PiS, Mr...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u410	Thank you, sir. I'd like to... [[Three clubs.]] Mr President, please listen to me for a moment. I would like to inform the High House that students from the primary school and the secondary school in Trzcinica, Jasielski district are listening to our discussions, [[Applause]] which Mr Bogdan Rzońc has invited here, which we also warmly greet. [[And if my trip comes, will you also say hello?]] Always, my fellow Member. I can already say hello. I cordially greet the Member for the time being. Thank you kindly. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u411	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I would like to present the position of the Circle in the case of the parliamentary draft Act on the Advocate of Entrepreneur's Rights. During my speech on 8 June this year on the draft resolution on the establishment of the National Entrepreneur's Day on 21 June, I clearly stressed the importance of entrepreneurship for the economic development of Poland. As a result, priority should be given to measures to facilitate business activity, in particular for the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which generate 67%. GDP and which creates jobs for around 70% all employees. I'm talking here, among other things. simplifying the tax system, reducing labour costs, removing unnecessary bureaucratic obligations and, equally important, the ability to quickly and efficiently enforce their rights against an independent and impartial court. I would like to ask the Members of the applicants from the Polish People's Party, who are so eager to invoke the loud film "The Closed Agreement": What have they done about legislation, being in the governing coalition for the last 8 years and directing the Ministry of Economy at that time, in order to change the situation of Polish entrepreneurs for the better, apart from the increase of fees, taxes and the introduction of further ones? Why have they accepted the civil servant's will for so many years without trying to limit it in any way? As an example, it is only this year that, after 5 years of validity of the Law on the Property Liability of Public Officers, the first official was responsible for the gross violation of the law he committed in the decision-making process. It is therefore worth asking whether the appointment of further institutions is the only remedy for any problems in the functioning of the State. As I said, the State should be able to quickly and efficiently enforce its rights before an independent and impartial court. At this point, we should focus all our energy on improving the functioning of the justice system so that the average time for dealing with economic matters does not last nearly 3 years, as has been the case so far. In addition, I would like to point out to applicants that in many places in Poland entrepreneurs have organized themselves perfectly and have themselves appointed advocates of their rights. For example, such institutions operate in the Regional Chamber of Commerce in Katowice, Krakow Business Platform or the National Chamber of Property Management. Furthermore, I must concern the Members of the applicants, but there are Members in this Sejm who read in full and understand the justification for the draft laws. In your explanatory memorandum to the project we can at least read that: the appointment of a special body to defend the interests of entrepreneurs - the ombudsman - is a good solution for the current economic situation of Poland, i.e. economic slowdowns, rising unemployment and negative phenomena such as payment congestion. I may have missed something, but from what you can read in the media, unemployment is the lowest in 25 years, and economic growth is not the worst. So I recommend you leave the copy practice - paste when you re-submit the same bill to the Marshal's staff. In view of the above and the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury, indicating inter alia: in the absence of a definition of the trader in the Act and thus a precise definition of the circle of entities within the scope of the Ombudsman's action, the Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the draft law be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u412	Thank you, sir. If there are no more candidates, I will close the list of Members of the Committee for Questions. The time to ask a question is 2 minutes. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, it would be best for this law to function smoothly so that we can meet businesses, create reliefs where they can create jobs. But this right is not quite clear and clear, and until today no one has come up with such a proposal, so clear and legible. On the other hand, it is worth considering how this works today. Since some of the things you propose in the bill are the ombudsman's responsibility, I have a question for you: Have you carefully analysed the functioning of the ombudsman in terms of helping entrepreneurs? What percentage of those cases that the Ombudsman deals with? I would also like to know what the opinion of institutions, associations, entrepreneurs - specific, known by name - is about the context of the bill. We all know that, because we have a less and less efficient state apparatus, there are limitations, for example with regard to the Constitutional Tribunal, where citizens can claim rights. It is important to consider whether this institution of the Ombudsman is really not necessary. But it is worth considering whether the money that is to be found there should not be found, for example. to the Ombudsman to extend this formula. Next question, in the context of the law and the provisions of this law. In fact, you are proposing that he be educated by this ombudsman that he should be a graduate of the law department. But today, as we can see, the spokesmen in the Constitutional Act do not need to have a specific education. That's enough. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that they have a higher education, hire lawyers who deal with a given subject. Therefore, I have another question: are it not organisations, not entrepreneurs should give an opinion...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u414	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u415	...such an appointment as an entrepreneur's attorney? Because they know people, too, and they know an environment that can take good care of their interests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u416	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Płępek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion about the need to appoint an ombudsman is not the first time before the High Sejm. Entrepreneurs who provide jobs and create national income are often mistreated by public officials and officials. Good solutions in this area are necessary, including simplification and strengthening of supervision. Today's bill can initiate these changes, but it does not solve all the issues. First of all, it does not guarantee this new institution an equivalent position as regards the possibility of defending the interests of the ombudsman's business interests. An Entrepreneur's Rights Ombudsman could not, for example, ask the Constitutional Court to examine the compatibility of the laws with the Constitution. The new law only provides him with the opportunity to participate in such proceedings initiated by the Ombudsman's application. So, instead of creating a new body, wouldn't it be better to introduce a separate, strong department for the protection of business rights into the Ombudsman's institution? Is there something in the way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u418	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Krystyna Skowronska. [[A voice of reason.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u419	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In this room, the point of view depends on the seating position. I would like to say that I would like to speak in today's debate on the appointment of an ombudsman. On the part of the ruling party they say no. And yet this is just like the democratic package. The state then said that the opposition deserved more rights. Today you said no, no, no, no, no. That's what you said, too, that there should be a spokesperson for business rights. What are you saying today? That the entrepreneurship team is gonna take care of all these things. This is not dating, sir, with you or with anyone else. I know perfectly well, because in 2001 and 2002 I had at least 1500 cases, I involved an ombudsman to do so, and there are still several cases pending before the European Court of Justice that such an ombudsman is needed. Why? We've called a patient's attorney. You do not remember - those who are today the first term of office, like Mr Kukiz,15 - that we have given a certain kind of case to the spokesperson of patient rights to begin with. How many cases are there today with the patient's attorney? 100,000. Do you understand that we have also appointed a financial officer? The financial Ombudsman, alongside the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, represents the rights of customers, may proceed to legal proceedings. What else, like not such a formula for supporting entrepreneurs, would it be to appoint an ombudsman? We care because today we can't talk about it... We've got a situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no tribunal, he's paralyzed. Who's gonna complain about entrepreneurs? The state in this courtroom, as you say today, is against the appointment of an office of spokesperson, and you are against entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u420	Thank you. And I ask that Mrs Mirosława Nykiel speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the Ombudsman and I ask the Minister to answer. How many cases affect the Ombudsman every year, because from what I remember, I gave it when I presented the club's opinion, that's over 50,000, 57,000, I guess, in 2014? How many of these cases involved business affairs? I mean, how many of them were solved by the spokesperson. As all studies show, the Ombudsman is not able to solve effectively the cases with which entrepreneurs turn. That is why I am in favour of calling - in the political situation that has arisen, the Constitutional Tribunal in chaos, the judicial authority concentrated in one hand, after all, Minister Ziobro can do everything... In this political situation, we really need to think about an entrepreneur who has no one to ask for protection of his rights. Therefore, Minister, I ask you in writing to answer the question: How many of these cases have been solved? Because if there are demands here to expand the ombudsman's powers, which is to secure him financially and substantively, then I ask: How has it been so far, and why have you taken away, limited the funds of the ombudsman's financial resources? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u422	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Abramowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The point of view depends on the seat point - she said to Mrs Skowrońska, the High House. Indeed, and that is precisely the case for Members of the Civic Platform. Well, it's August 30, the 20,000th year... [[Two thousand thirteenth.]] Yeah, two thousand thirteenth year. ...vote No 84, Parliamentary bill on the Ombudsman's Rights of Entrepreneurs, print No 1504, vote against at first reading. Who voted against this project at first reading? Ms Mirosława Nykiel, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski and Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. [[But that's only three.]] Yes, Madame, the point of view depends on the point of the seat. That's exactly what you said. I have a question for the Member of the applicant's representative: Did the Civic Platform vote against the bill on the Ombudsman's rights in 2013 at first reading? [[Corrigendum.]] At the time, PSL supported, was constant in views. Did the Civic Platform vote... [[But then the tribunal worked.]] I would very much like to hear your reply: Did the Civic Platform vote at first reading against the parliamentary proposal to set up an ombudsman? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[In the title of corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u424	Here you go, one minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u425	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The Lord misunderstood my statement and misquoted it today. In addition to the situation you were talking about, the vote has changed the legal situation, and among other things. legal risk is one of the biggest risks for the entrepreneur. He has a production, but the conditions in which he works are also important to him. I think that you will agree with me that, unfortunately, you misunderstood this, because then the legal situation, the working Constitutional Tribunal, was one of the guarantors... [[What does that have to do with anything?]] ...that if there was a charge related to incorrect legislation, he could have settled it. And besides, the second thing, today it is dangerous for the Minister of Justice to design solutions concerning e.g. confiscation of property. I think he'll introduce me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're with this project that's really unfriendly to entrepreneurs, what everyone's saying...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u426	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u427	...in the situation of solving business problems. Thank you. [[The situation was different because P.O. ruled.]] [[No, you created a different political situation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u428	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u429	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is known that every spokesperson works well if he is close. If we look at the statistics of cases whether the Ombudsman or the ombudsman or any other ombudsman, it will turn out that in the place where he is based, these cases are the most important, and the further we are from this headquarters, the less these cases are. Of course, this does not mean that the further away from the Ombudsman, the better it is, and the closer it is to the Ombudsman is worse, because that is not the point, but, High Izbo, that the Ombudsman will not solve, in my opinion, problems. I have a question, because last year there was a law on free legal aid, from which entrepreneurs - economic activities as such, i.e. the simplest form of entrepreneurship - were excluded. These are the people who are the weakest in this link, because they're not even micro-entrepreneurs anymore, they're nanoentrepreneurs. Or even a pico-entrepreneur. I have a second question for the applicants. What happened at the moment that there was a need to appoint a spokesman? The Polish People's Party is 25 years in power and has not seen such a need, but only now [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the kind of need you've noticed. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you, High Izbo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u430	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Jachnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant because I heard that PSL will report a package of business-friendly laws next week or there within two weeks. Therefore, my question is this: do you also provide in this package a law on the liability of public officials, including judges and prosecutors, for the hostile treatment of citizens, including entrepreneurs? And my question is that without responsibility 10, 20, 50 ombudsman and another 100 frivolous laws will not change anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u432	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Agatha Borowiec.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u433	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to Mr Kasprzak, representative of the applicants. As a justification for the project, you said that this law would be indifferent to the budget. According to Art. 19 of the draft expenditure relating to the functioning of the Ombudsman would be covered by part of the appropriations paid by the entrepreneurs to the Labour Fund. Is it true, then, that the ombudsman would actually pay for the ombudsman himself? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u434	Thank you. And please take the floor of Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u435	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer the questions and refer to the bill without a tablet and without a card. [[Applause]] At the same time, I would like to say that because we received the bill a few days ago, so what I am going to present here will not be the position of the government, as the recommendations for such a position have only just been sent to the government. It is therefore up to the Marshal's decision whether he wishes to hear the recommendations we have made to the government or whether he will acknowledge that our position, the government's position, is not yet ready to present them to you. Yes, Mr. Marshal. In the requests and recommendations submitted by the Ministry of Development concerning the draft Act on the appointment of an ombudsman, we submit five basic reservations and two general comments. First general remark. The explanatory memorandum of the Act states that the appointment of the Ombudsman is related to the possibility of realising its rights. Such justification would clearly indicate the surrender of the legal system. If we want to set up an authority to prove that all other regulations and acts in that country do not apply, then we do indeed admit to surrender. That's the first general remark. And there are five substantive objections. Some of them are already replicating the comments that Members have made here before me. The first comment we make is that we stand in the position that the government's task is non-nocere, not teasing, not disturbing, not constituting a law that interferes, and that we should focus on simplification, because this is a real need pointed out by all entrepreneurs. They expect not a spokesperson, but simple, clear rules of the game, not to change the VAT bill, and in the last 12 years 44 times this has happened, only clear and predictable rules. And that's what we care about. Therefore, the government has recently presented a plan of 100 changes for simplifying and facilitating businesses. Among them were among others. solutions for reducing certain information obligations, clarifying issues that raise interpretation doubts, changes to support the development of entrepreneurship, improving the efficiency of work, improving the investment process or reducing control burden. Secondly, there is reasonable doubt as to the duplication of the Ombudsman's duties with the obligations of the Ombudsman under the law. Here we have both the similarity of instruments and the similarity of activity, the object of action. The entrepreneur is a citizen and can make his reservations and comments to the Ombudsman. Thirdly, there is also another office to guarantee, on the one hand, the conditions of competitiveness, on the other hand, the settlement of concentrations. It is the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Here again we see some overlap of competences and thus the creation of these overregulations. In this regard, once, in a not so distant past, the applicant was a spokesperson and was responsible for this in the Ministry of Economy. Finally, another super-regulatory element, which has also been reported here, is that when we appoint an ombudsman, we do not define in the draft law a group of entities, who is an entrepreneur. We know that we find this in many legal acts. However, the lack of such clear clarification may raise doubts as to the extent of the protection taken by the ombudsman. Finally, there is no such thing as a cost-free administration. The justification is that the appointment of an office will not cost anything. I think that every Member who has an internship longer than I am at the place where I am now - there are Members who have also served as ministers - knows that there is no administration that costs nothing. As regards the transfer of these costs, they will either be generated for the state budget - they will, in fact, be - or will be transferred to entrepreneurs. There is a declaration that the costs associated with the Ombudsman's activities will be covered by the Labour Fund, and let us remember that the Labour Fund has its tasks and objectives to fulfil, and therefore it will most likely involve an increase in the contribution. This calls into question whether the ombudsman will really fulfil the fundamental task of reducing the level of obstacles to economic activity. In view of the above reservations, which submitted to the Ministry of Development to consider the other members of the government before preparing the position of the government, we recommended that work on the bill be discontinued. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u436	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u437	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for reminding me that I used to have a function, but I would advise you to go deeper into these archives and look at the deregulation laws. Were they? They were. Is it good? That's good. They were good. Everyone here voted for it, the whole House voted for it, including PiS. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I'm sorry we're politicizing such an important element here because there's already been a clear politicisation. Because what happened? PiS now wants to vote against this bill, which he once proposed, or similar to the one he supported. Polish People's Party voted... [[We voted against.]] That's why he wants to vote against, because the Platform supports it right now. [[That's not true.]] Guys, why don't you let the Platform back out of support, and then the PiS will back it up. Because that's never gonna be a chance to pass. I think if PiS backs it up, Kukiz will back it up, and that would be enough. Let's look at entrepreneurs. Let's do everything, maybe even step back to help entrepreneurs. Because we're not going to solve problems and let's not charm ourselves here -- let me repeat what I said again -- that suddenly something like this is going to happen, that the law is going to be perfect for business. Because so far, everything's going in the opposite direction. This is demonstrated by the additional burdens that are being prepared for entrepreneurs. I wouldn't bother with the details. As far as this one mistake is concerned, I admit it, I missed it somehow. Unemployment is falling. Since Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish was Minister of Labour and Social Policy, unemployment has started to fall and continues to fall, that is true. It was a mistake, but I don't think it's affecting the contents of the bill. If we look further at the financial impact - maybe I will generally refer to this project - then entrepreneurs pay this contribution. You could successfully eliminate the contribution to the Labour Fund and then they wouldn't pay, they could buy something else for that money. I think it's better to give them a specific instrument than e.g. to pay unemployment benefits from the Labour Fund, as this would result in fewer companies failing, and there would be more jobs in small businesses or even in larger ones. It would be more beneficial for the economy and that is the way to look at it. Of course, you have to pay for every job and there is nothing here for free - yes, Minister, there is nothing for free - but that it is that money can be used very rationally. A week ago, a law on medicine, on the functioning of health care was passed. It happened in express mode: one night and voted out. The government's explanatory memorandum states that it is financially neutral, but the government will pay for it. What's that? Isn't that public money? It's public money, too. So here I wouldn't go too hard on it either. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal because there is still a moment to think about - I do not know when Mr. Marshal will vote on this bill - but to lean on it. Don't let the PiS look at the Platform, let it behave like the Polish People's Party. The Member admitted that the Polish People's Party is constant in feelings. We supported your bill that time, so now you support ours. [[No, we have previously voted against, and now we are also opposed.]] We'll do something for the entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs will certainly be pleased with this, Mr President. You guys always change... If you are in opposition, then you support, preach, all nice, beautiful. That was the case, for example. with the Renewable Energy Act. You backed up, and now the other way. Therefore, High Izbo, once again, I ask you to stand on the side of entrepreneurs, because they really do at this moment even with limited finances... Mrs Skowrońska, as a representative of the Committee on Public Finance, also confirmed that the money for the Ombudsman has been limited, and that is very much so, and we are at the moment calling for the Ombudsman to be even more involved in these matters. The Ombudsman deals with systemic issues that require regulation. Now it's going to be about a lower power of attorney, because it's a constitutional power, and we're not going to change the constitution today. The Ombudsman shall have the powers conferred on him, shall report annually and shall be accountable to the High Chamber, and the High Chamber shall settle it. As regards the participation of employers in the appointment of the Ombudsman, this is, of course, acceptable, an opportunity to discuss this issue, but I would not undermine the role of the High House here. It is up to the High House to have the most important influence on who will perform the function and how it will perform the role. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u438	Mr Jachnik would like to correct, but he was not mentioned by name or name. The Member was not mentioned by name or by name, so there is no legal basis for this correction. The discussion is closed. A motion for rejection at first reading of the bill was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. High Izbo, I'm declaring a time-out. 19. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 46 hrs. 19 min 21]] I'm reopening the session. The Group of Members has tabled a draft resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation. The project is printing 632 along with the autorepair. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can't hear you objecting. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is in print No 651. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We would like to return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law on the National Media Council and on the amendment of certain laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 610-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Elizabeth Raven to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Media at its meeting on 22 June 2016 considered the amendments tabled at the second reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the Council of National Media and the amendment of certain laws on printing No 592. Nine amendments were tabled during the second reading. The applicants withdrew two of them. The Commission proposes to adopt five amendments and to reject two of the other amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u440	Thank you, Member. As we have heard, it is a proposal to adopt a draft law from print No 610 which also contains minority proposals. The additional report presents amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 3 applicants propose, among other things, that members elected by the Senate of Polish state universities should enter the board. The consequences of the adoption of this minority proposal will be the nullity of amendments 1 to 3 and minority proposals 2 and 3 as well as the deletion of Article in the draft law. 4.8 and Art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club. One minute is enough for you, isn't it? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am aware that this minority amendment has no chance in today's parliamentary agreement, but I would like to tell you what it was all about. We meant that the television authorities should not be so politicized. I don't understand this state resistance. Why are you so afraid of educated people, rectors, state senates of university universities? What effect we have today and what we will have as a result of politicians being appointed by politicians, I will refer to this in later speeches, because people see what is the programme on TV. Ladies and gentlemen, people to run such a large company should be chosen wisely, bet on educated people. Hence the conclusion that you should take this to heart and decide, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But to choose their senates of state university universities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u442	I didn't hear the question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request, along with the consequences, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 171 votes against - 254, 2 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the first amendment to Article. 3 applicants propose, among other things, that the Council should consist of 5 members elected only by the Sejm. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The consequences of the adoption of these amendments will be the absence of the 2nd minority proposal and the 3rd amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, along with the consequence, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 143 votes against 285, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the second minority proposal to Article. 3 applicants propose that the Council shall consist of 6 members, 4 of whom shall elect the Sejm. The question is raised by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u443	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The National Media Council is in fact a political office of the media and resembles the formation from the times of the Polish People's Republic. I would like to remind you of a publication that appeared at the turn of the 1960s and 1970s, where these texts and texts were written, which could not see the light of day, because then there was a state censorship. Jacek Kurski took off the antenna... [[He's re-established the Pegasus.]] ... Jacek Kurski gave a commentary on the famous film that Oscar received, as you know. [[This is not a point about Janów Podlaski.]] Nevertheless, I would like to ask you to bring us to the Polish-Polish dialogue. Maybe the media will be this space, although I know that they are part of the structure of the authoritarian state, which is being built by President Kaczyński, who is currently discussing with the Member. [[Get away from President Kaczyński.]] And I'm asking you to be on the National Media Council. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There were three members of the opposition and three members of the government group. Then maybe we'll have a chance at any conversation. That's the minimum. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u444	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 86 votes against - 350 Members, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the third minority application, applicants propose to add point 1a in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. The question is raised by Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u445	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the applicants. What kind of patent is it that depoliticizing the National Media Council is a choice for this council of active politicians? However, I would very much like to know why this privilege is to meet Members and Senators, and also members of the party in general. I'd appreciate your answer. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u446	Then I'm forced to announce that we are voting. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 173 voted against - 259, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third amendment to the article. 6 applicants propose new rules for the appointment of members of the Council by the President of the Republic of Poland. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 256 voted against 179 and 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. Article 2 9. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 403 against - 34 Members, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose that the Council adopt resolutions by a majority of 2/3 of the statutory number of members. The question is raised by Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u447	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have another question for the applicants. Why do you choose whether or not you propose two seats in a five-person council for representatives from opposition clubs if you want to take all decisions by 3:2 votes? Do you really think there'll be two ferns here? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u448	Thank you, Member, for the question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 197, against - 235 Members, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose to add to the draft law art. 21a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 276 against 158 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, the applicant proposes to add paragraph. 3 and 4 in Article 4 23. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 263, against 172, and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 24 applicants propose that the law enter into force 7 days after the date of publication, with the exception of Article. 19, which would enter into force on the day of the announcement. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 356 voted against - 79, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The questions are raised by Members. Mr Piotr Liroy-March, Kukiz Club15. Next is Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed project is to create a National Media Council. Unfortunately, I remind you, there is no national media at all. It's a bit of a play for art, in which case I'd say it's a little bit of a trick for power. We have repeatedly offered you our help as a club in creating real national, social media, and every time you rejected this help, so with this trick, the trick in all, don't count on us. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u450	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, has the floor. Member Robert Winnicki is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u451	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, almost everyone from the Parliament's media platform has spoken for a few months, which today depends on order in the media. Everything has been said, and that these laws are HR, that non-constitutional, that they are bad, that they do nothing for the media except for the exchange of people, but there is no matter the most important - mission and financing. The press programmes are characterised by unprofessional policymaking. You don't watch your own TV because things are getting weirder there. Now the new entertainment professionals have come along, introduced such a nightmare on the air, gentlemen, to which I must draw attention, which is a quasi-cabaret called Studio Yayo. It is Poland that is now undergoing a wave of laughter from this masterpiece. If you make people pay for this mission, I wish you good luck, you won't succeed. Somebody come to their senses 'cause you're screwing people over. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u452	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor. Mr Urszula Augustyn is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Media Act is actually a form of consolidation of government change, because public media over the past 20 years, almost throughout this period, have been government media. It is also so today that it is the government that de facto sets up national media, public media. What is important in all of this is the content, whether these media, apart from the role of government media, will fight actively in the field of the most important today - on the front of the cultural war which is taking place in Poland, which is taking place in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, on the front of the cultural war for national identity, for tradition, for intellectual sovereignty, moral sovereignty, and spiritual sovereignty. That's the essence of what might be a good change, but you can't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to forget this in the current political interests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u454	Thank you. Ms Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u455	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Because my previous speaker, Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the applicants do not want to answer the question, I will ask the same question, only louder, Minister and I hope that she will answer me why, even though in a few moments we will blow up the National Radio and Television Council, in which you will still have shares, because you will build it again, you are creating a strange creation - the National Media Council. The question is basically very simple: Why? And the answer is simple - that's because, while still in the National Council of Radio and Television, so far at least, there have been people who have not been associated with political parties, [[Joy in the Chamber]] You are now inviting active politicians to the National Media Council. You open the door for Members, even Members, and I hope that the Minister will explain to me now, he can answer this question himself, whether he sees himself in this new Council of National Media... [[See you around.]] ...because today for Members sitting in this Chamber, especially on the part of the Law and Justice, the doors of the National Media Council are wide open. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're talking about pluralism, you're talking about freedom of speech? Pluralism and freedom of speech in your edition is Jacek Kurski, only PiS. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u456	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 610, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's holding back? [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: Who is against?]] I'm sorry. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 227 Members voted against - 207, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a bill on the National Media Council. [[Applause]] We return to the discussion of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2015 together with information about the basic problems of radio and television in 2015 and the draft resolution of the Commission. In the draft resolution presented, the committee asks that the report of the National Radio and Television Council be rejected from its activities in 2015. The question is raised by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u457	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Neither do I have any illusions about the verdict today on the adoption of the report of the National Radio and Television Council, but I will now quote two articles and I will tell you very substantively. The draft law infringes the article. 213 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, according to which the body responsible for the implementation of the public media mission is the National Council of Radiophony and Television. This has been confirmed by the Constitutional Tribunal on several occasions, according to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 of the Constitution, the Let me give you another point to consider. Art. 61 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland states that the Constitution does not prohibit the operation of several state bodies in matters of radio and television, but all of them must be subject to the National Council of Radio and Television, and to this extent... [[They don't have to.]] ...to avoid any threat. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The three good things indicated, sir, are freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television, which is being violated very much at the moment. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u458	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 616, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 22 Members abstained from voting 229 against - 184. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2015. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the law on agricultural advisory units. The additional report shall be in print No 606-A. We proceed to the third reading. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski will speak in order to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I present an additional report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the law on agricultural advisory units. The Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 606 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to examine the proposal and the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission considered them at its meeting on 21 June. The Commission recommends that both the proposal to reject the draft law and the four amendments of the High Sejm should be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u460	We have heard, but with an additional report on this proposal, we must vote first. I would like to inform you that acceptance of the rejection request will result in the unobtrusiveness of the other proposals. We therefore proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion for rejection... [[Hello, hello, excuse me, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm sorry. Yes, yes, at the moment I noticed the Member. Mr Artur Dunin, the Civic Platform Club, raises questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I'd like to inform your marshal that this bill has been filed against the rules of the Sejm. Art. 36 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, for obeying which... [[But the question, sir. Now there are questions.]] ...you answer, in your mouth. 6 provides: The examination of the law, the adoption of which may result in changes in the functioning of the local government, includes the consultation of local authorities, which form the local government of the Joint Government Commission and the Local Government. It is also that the local government has 14 days to answer. But here is a very important paragraph - lips. 9: Representatives of local governments have the right to present their opinions at the meeting of the Sejm committee. I would like to inform your marshal that no opinion has been forwarded, no one has been invited and this has been carried out in accordance with the rules of the Sejm. Besides, Mr. Marshal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] High Izbo, we got an opinion from BAS two days after the committee meeting that... [[Oh, my God!]] ...is a conclusion, I read the conclusion: The Parliamentary project... [[Time.]] ...the law on amending the law on agricultural advisory units is contrary to European Union law. I asked the Minister if he was going to send this project for an opinion. The Minister said that he would not send for an opinion on this project, because he believes that this is in line with European Union law. But that's not all, marshal. [[But it's time, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u462	Mr, if you would be kind...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u463	But no, because it's very important, Mr. Marshal. It'd be good to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u464	I realize... [[No questions asked.]] ...you only had time...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u465	...so you know, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u466	...one minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u467	Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u468	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u469	Then I'll ask you a question. [[Thank you, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u470	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u471	Why, Mr. Reporter... I can turn to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u472	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u473	Why, Mr... [[I am not the rapporteur.]] ...the applicant... [[Voice from the room: But time.]] ...probably breaking the article. 165 Constitution of the Republic of Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u474	Thank you, sir. [[Voice from the room: Unbelievable.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u475	Please answer why you don't comply to respect the constitution. But I understand. Constitution...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u476	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u477	...you don't respect because you don't have to worry about anything anymore, because the Constitutional Court...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u478	Mr President, can you end this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u479	...doesn't work. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u480	Thank you. I would like to inform you that this project has been sent to all members of the local government of the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] I won't argue with you. I say the truth, and you say the truth. We're sticking to our sentences. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 145, against 259, and 31 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the first amendment to Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 applicants propose that the director of the agricultural advisory unit be appointed after the previous competition. The adoption of this amendment will render the 2nd amendment futile. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen... [[Mr. Marshal, I've asked you a question.]] What about this amendment, sir? [[About that amendment. May I?]] Mr Krzysztof Brejza on the 1st amendment raises the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u481	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You don't have a heart for self-government, because the constitution, in art. 15 specifically, provides not for centralization of power, as it was for communes, but for decentralisation. And from what we recall, this is probably the first project in the Sejm that takes the responsibility of the local government. There is an opinion of the voivodship union on this matter, which is that you want to satisfy particular political interests... [[Voice from the room: Not to this amendment.]] ...and what you're doing is an assassination attempt on the local government. The centralization, that is, the national councils that were behind the communes, was that these councils were subject to the voivodships. That's what you want to bring in. You're centralizing for positions. But the question is, what about the wealth of these centers? Because often it is the property of local governments - and land, and buildings. What about sustainability of EU projects? Because you will have to return funds to the European Union for this. Finally, the Minister will answer: Is it in Article. 15 Constitution [[♪ The bell ♪]] talks about centralization, like the Polish Constitution, or about decentralisation of public tasks in Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u482	Thank you, sir. Of course, Amendment 1 concerns something else. [[Voice from the room: Minister's response.]] But, Minister, the Member didn't say anything about it, so I apologize. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Bravo, Marshal!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 240, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 1 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment also applies to competitions. I just after presenting my position on behalf of the Kukiz club15 got such a very sad text, namely: the grandfather talked to the painting, and the painting to him not once. Mr Bogucki, during the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee, told me that there were no transparent competitions for the previous coalition, Mr Bogucki. And I, as a young parliamentarian and a farmer, will only say this: my generation does not care. My generation cares. [[Applause]] whether ambition and qualifications will eventually become important in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u484	There was no question, sir. [[Come back!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[How wasn't it?]] In the second amendment, applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 1 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 206 voted against 228, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete point 2 of Article. Article 6a (6) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. There were 164 votes against, 239 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. The draft law of the applicant proposes that the law should enter into force on 1 January 2017. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 138 Members voted against - 253 and 28 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Members of the House are asking questions. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to assure you that there were no opinions. That's by the way. The Civic Platform Club is against this bill amending. The Platform Club is against breaking the law. The Platform Club won't vote to break the law, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Was that a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u486	There you go. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u487	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think I'm gonna surprise you tonight. The current state of agricultural advice in Poland does not bring glory to the previous head of the Ministry of Agriculture. A higher education counselor earns 1350 PLN per hand, which, I believe, does not facilitate the employment of young, capable, prepared for work in the field of advisors. There's no money to get to the farms. The state of offices and equipment is grieving. In some teams there are 900 farms per advisor. For example, in Denmark, which is often a role model for our farmers, that is about 60 farms per person. Such advice is no advice, and it really is a pity for such advice on money. If farmers expect change, if it can't get any worse, it's probably worth investing in all the changes. Given that the non-compliance with constitutional law is already in place today, and not in the amendments, we are ready to support this [[♪ The bell ♪]] A draft bill, but if the Minister promises us that not only names will change, but something will actually change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u488	Please. Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As regards the amendment concerning competitions, in a situation where a person would have been selected in this competition, the Minister would have appointed or cancelled the Director. That's why I'm surprised you didn't put transparency here because it wouldn't interfere with the ministry's work. And in this situation, since people who would like to apply for executive positions cannot take part in this competition, as a Kukiz club15 we are against. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u490	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the question was whether anything would actually change. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Three Members have appeared. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Mr Ryszard Zarudzki has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Changing the subordinates of agricultural advisory units is a socially expected change. I did not meet in the environment, during meetings with farmers, where there would be no need for change to be necessary, on the one hand, a change in the way in which the job is done, the career of advisers, the degradation of the advisors' environment due to the lowest salaries, which are less than 2 000. Evil, educated, experienced people. It's on one side. On the other hand, the tasks and implementation of the programme of the Ministry of Agriculture adopted by Minister Jurgiel and the management require the necessary changes and convergence of this diversity and wealth of Polish agriculture. And that's what we want to do. I think we're gonna do it, and we know how to do it, and there's an idea to do it. We can do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u492	Thank you, Minister. In that case, allow us to proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 606, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 259 Members voted against - 174, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the law on agricultural advisory units. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 529. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No. 529 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 401 against - 30 Members, no one abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Customs Law and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 637-A. We proceed to the third reading. Mrs Ewa Szymańska has the floor to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u493	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister High Seym! At its meeting yesterday at second reading, the Sejm discussed the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Customs Law and some other laws from print no. 513. During the second reading, an amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and, therefore, the Sejm again referred the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances to consider this amendment. The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting today welcomed the amendment tabled with the attention of the Legislative Bureau. The Commission calls on the Sejm to accept the amendment tabled. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u494	Thank you. As I understand it, and the entire bill from print no. 637. But first, we will vote on the amendment. In the amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this The consequence of the adoption of this amendment will be the deletion of the paragraph. 5, 6 and 7 in Articles 5, 6 and 7 24. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment, with the consequence, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 427, 2 Members voted against, 1 abstention. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 637, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 427 voted in favour, no one voted against, one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Customs Law Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and amending certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 639-A. We proceed to the third reading. An additional report will be presented by the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Costowniak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u495	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and amending certain other laws on printing No 554. The Sejm shall meet on 21 June in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law to the Committee on Public Finance to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering the amendments at its meeting today, requests the adoption of the 1st amendment, the rejection of Amendment 2 and the adoption of the whole law as proposed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u496	Thank you, sir. We will vote on the amendments first. In the first amendment to Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (3) of the Energy Law of the applicant proposes a change concerning the negative conditions for the issue of the concession. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the rules of the project no concession may be issued if the person has been convicted by a final judgment for a criminal offence or tax offence relating to the subject-matter of the economic activity covered by the Act, i.e. only in the field of energy. I'm sure fraud will be more effectively eliminated when a conviction for a crime or a tax offence related to an economic activity in another industry will rule out the possibility of obtaining a concession. That is the content of the amendment. Doesn't it make it more effective to fight fraud? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u498	Is this a question addressed to a government representative? [[Yes, the government.]] [[That's right, to the government.]] A representative of the government. That was one question. Is the Minister ready? He's not ready. [[He's not ready, like the government.]] Then we shall proceed to the vote. Is the minister ready or not ready? [[Let him decide whether he is or not.]] I don't know. I don't see any readiness here. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 424 against - 6, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The 48th excise duty law shall propose that the applicants do not add paragraph. 9a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is also raised by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u499	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project adopted a kind of assumption, a kind of legal fiction, whereby giving a tax identification number preceded by a code PL causes that the purchaser is automatically considered to be established or resident in the territory of the country, acquires fuel for the purpose of doing business in the territory of the country or has a branch established in the territory of the country, etc. Doesn't that weaken the impact of regulation? After all, it is possible to have a tax identification number preceded by a PL code, even if it is not located in Poland, there is no residence or branch. Just make any intra-Community acquisition of goods in Poland to be required to register for the purposes of the transaction, i.e. [[♪ The bell ♪]] so-called. EU VAT registration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u500	Thank you, sir. This question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Wiesław Jasiński. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u501	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will also, of course, answer the first question of the Member. This negative condition, which was mentioned by the Member, is a kind of ratio legis of this provision, which is why this was the position. With regard to this second question from the Member, this number, which you are talking about, is an additional, necessary sealing of the rule, and this is the ratio legis, in turn, of the whole law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u502	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 210 Members voted against - 224, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 639, together with one amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. I state that the Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Commission's draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of the Vistula River. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 481. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No.481, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 433, no one voted against, one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of the Vistula River. We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Commission's draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of Joseph Conrad-Korzeniowski. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 488, sorry, 480. Of course, it's about Joseph Conrad. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 480, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 433 Members voted against - 1 and no one abstained. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2017 with the Year of Joseph Conrad-Korzeniowski. We return to the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 507. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no.507, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 425 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, six Members abstained. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2017 by the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. We would like to return to the discussion of item 18 of the agenda: The Report of the Committee on Culture and... [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: On a formal issue, Mr Marshal.]] A formal conclusion? [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Yes.]] Here you are, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska, a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 1 I request that the Convention of Seniors order a break and decide whether it is possible to vote on the amendments that have been made to print 506. The vote on these amendments is a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure, as was the same as the submission of these amendments itself was a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Suski. The procedure for notification of such resolutions is described in the Rules of Procedure. It is clear when proposals can be made and when the committee can submit five nominations to the High House. Today, during the second reading, the resolution was amended and one of the patrons of 2017. I don't talk about character. All I'm saying is that there seems to be some boundaries of decency in this House. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We're seeing an assassination.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u504	Ladies and gentlemen, the explanation is as follows. The amendment was made by the club. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: No.]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: No.]] Excuse me, the amendment was tabled by Richard Terlecki, President of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. For me, that means he called in the club. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: You reported Suski outside the order.]] Excuse me. I have here in writing this amendment, which is why whether the amendment is adopted or not is not decided by the committee, but by the Sejm. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: No amendments.]] Excuse me, there's an amendment tabled and she has a number... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[That's not what the Rules of Procedure say.]] [[There are no corrections.]] Ladies and gentlemen, she has a print number... an amendment tabled at second reading on 22 June 2016 for prints No 360 and No 506. Is that an explanation enough for you? [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: I do not know why Mr Shepa does not want to tell you this, Marshal.]] [[Get in the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u505	Mr. Marshal! There is a procedure for applying for patrons of a given year in the Rules of Procedure. This mode tells you when you can report these candidates. Adam Chmielowski was reported. The Commission considered Adam Chmielowski's candidacy. She took it. We're supposed to have five patrons. This type of amendment cannot be made, which is not a stylistic amendment, but introduces one more patron, to break the rules. [[It's true.]] However, I ask that we follow at least the logic here. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: But he is Chmielowski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u506	I am not referring to the substance of the amendment. From the point of view of the regulations, everything is legal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: It is not!]] [[It's not!]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. I will put the amendment formally tabled to the vote, but right now I have to... [[Member Joann Scheuring-Wielgus: But you can't, there's no amendment.]] [[Why don't you announce this break?]] ...read the information about where we are. We're back to point 18... [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Sorry, formal request.]] All right, just a moment, ladies and gentlemen. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by Adam Chmielowski. Amendments were tabled during the second reading of the draft resolution. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: But it was a fraud!]] The Sejm has decided not to send the draft resolution to the committee and to vote after the text of the amendments has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: But we didn't get it!]] Amendments were delivered to print No 506. [[That's not what the Rules of Procedure say.]] [[Change the rules and you won't have a problem.]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: I would propose the Convention.]] The question is raised by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, right? There you go. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Scheuring-Wielgus.]] Excuse me, Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus is raising a question. Excuse me, ma'am. [[Game in the O.R.]] And I ask you to keep your voice down because I can't hear you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was in that meeting. The amendment was not tabled by Mr Terlecki, who was sitting comfortably here, but by Mr Suski. This is a violation of the rules of procedure. The conclusion was completely different. It is not possible to add a second person to, as Mr Suski said, the episcopate proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, you are breaking the rules. You can't do that. [[Because it's the first time.]] Marshal, the question is to you: Why do you agree to break the rules? [[There's no need to do that.]] [[Ma'am, don't embarrass yourself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u508	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a violation of the rules of procedure. Let me explain this to you again. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: It is, please read it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Dear Messengers, At the moment, we are voting on the amendment formally tabled. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Let's call the Convention.]] Any Member may submit an amendment if it is signed by the President of the Club. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm so sorry, ladies and gentlemen. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 506. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I will put the vote to the vote first. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] amendments tabled to the draft resolution. [[Formal conclusion.]] [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] Formal conclusion. Mr Sławomir Neumann.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a clear problem with understanding the rules here. We do not make a proposal and it is not our intention to say that no amendments must be tabled. Of course, you can, only here the rules are broken, because the sixth patron of the year is added. It's pretty easy to count to five and six. We're talking about five people being the patron of the year. [[Applause]] Mr Suski presented the sixth patron on behalf of the PiS club. Mr. Marshal, nothing will happen when you take it off today... [[Don't embarrass yourself, really.]] ...this item on the agenda. It would then be possible to consult the Sejm's Legislative Office and at the next meeting, or even tomorrow, to reconsider the matter. But here we absolutely break the rules - up to five are easy to count - Mr Suski, you know that very well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chmielowski and blessed Kozminski Honorat are the same. They don't understand at all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u510	I don't see the need for a convention. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that this is an amendment that talks about conjunction. I'll read the text... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: But there was no such conclusion]] ... of this amendment: The resolution on the establishment of the year 2017 by the Year of Adam Chmielowski and the Blessed Honorat Kozminski. Yeah, well... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Mr Marshal...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not accept this as a formal proposal. I'm so sorry, ladies and gentlemen. We are voting on the amendments. In the 1st amendment, the applicant proposes a new title for the draft resolution. [[Scandal.]] This amendment is combined with the 2nd amendment in which the applicant... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: We do not vote at all.]] ...offer new wording of the draft resolution. We will vote on these amendments together. The adoption of these amendments will result in... [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: We do not vote at all.]] ...the adoption of a resolution as proposed by the applicants and objectlessness... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Even here we have something else written on the board.]] ...the committee's proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2 and, therefore, in favour of adopting a resolution on the establishment of 2017 the Year of Adam Chmielowski and the Blessed Honorate Kozminski, as proposed by the applicants, will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[We're not voting!]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 277 Members voted. The vote was 251 against - 3 and 23 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm accepted the amendments and thus adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of Adam Chmielowski and the Blessed Honorat Kozminski. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by Tadeusz Kościuszko. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 508. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u511	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to warn Members of the Law and Justice against too hasty support for the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 in the Year of Tadeusz Kościuszko. You can unwittingly honor a man who represented completely alien ideas to you. [[Oh, dear.]] You can reward a man who led an unstabilized sex life, romance with married women, give birth to illegitimate children, do not despise prostitution, and according to some messages he even shared a bed with men. [[So are you.]] You can elevate the ardent anticlerical, who repeatedly emphasized that a full separation of the Church from the institutions of the state is necessary, strongly promoting its secularity, a man who opposed the education of the young generation by Catholic clergy. You can honor the commander who ordered the confiscation of valuables, dresses, and even church bells for insurrection. Is that what you want? [[Applause]] [[Yes!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u512	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print version 508, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 427, against - 1 and abstained 3. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2017 in the Year of Tadeusz Kościuszko. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 104. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending law containing amendments to the Public Procurement Law. In Amendment 1. to Article. In paragraph 3, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Point 1 (3) after point (a) d The Senate proposes to add a joint part and not to add a paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u513	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. The question concerns Amendment 1, which refers to the scope of the subjective application of the law. Therefore, the primary printing and the Senate amendment, which concerns it, provide for the exclusion from the rigour of that law of certain entities. In the Senate amendment, this is so defined: it is a legal person who does not operate under normal market conditions, whose aim is not to generate profit and who does not bear losses. At the committee meeting, I asked the question, what does normal market conditions mean, how they differ from extraordinary ones. I didn't get an answer. I was merely suggested that the conditions of market competition were at stake. Therefore, if this is a reference to freedom [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] making transactions, I understand that these other market conditions - and I ask the rapporteur to confirm me in this - this is a regulated market, i.e. regulated, so-called. The grey zone and it is a black market, absolutely not allowed, unacceptable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur a question as one who should know the law in the smallest detail, know all the pros and cons, all the proposals that have been made, the analysis and the whole discussion, and I am counting on the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u514	Thank you very much. The rapporteur is ready to answer. Yes? The rapporteur of the committee is Mr Wojciech Zubowski, and she will now reply to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u515	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Let me just remind you that the discussion on this point took place at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. Also in the opinion of the government representatives, the concept of normal market conditions was a general concept, pointing to competition and not requiring additional definition. I will also remind you that, according to the justification that we have received from the Senate, because the legislator does not use the concept of a public law entity in any provision of the amended law, the formulation of the definition of such a concept is legislatively incorrect. When applying a legislative technique such as the definition, it is appropriate to follow § 146 The legislative technique principle, which determines in which circumstances this is acceptable and necessary. In the case analysed, none of the circumstances indicated in that provision are present. According to the Senate, it was not the intention of the legislator to add a definition of the concept of public law entity to the law, but a provision which would specify in which case the Public Procurement Law would not apply to the award of contracts by certain entities, although the circle of those entities and contracts by them are in principle covered by the regime of that law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u516	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. 168 votes against - 252, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 2, 5, 24, 45, 50, 56, 58 and 66. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2, 5, 24, 45, 50, 56, 58 and 66 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. The vote was 393 against - 32, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In Amendment 3. to Article. 4 point 3 in the following point: the Senate proposes to delete the word "management." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. The vote was 3, against 429, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 4. to Article. Point 4 (6) of the Senate proposes that the words "administrative decision' be replaced by the words "other normative act to be published'. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 6, 11, 12, 15, 17, 21, 22, 28, 30, 34, 35, 38, 47, 51, 53, 60, 68, 69, 71, 72, 75, 88, 93, 98, 101, 112, 115 and 117. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 6, 11, 12, 15, 17, 21, 22, 28, 30, 34, 35, 38, 47, 51, 53, 60, 68, 69, 71, 72, 75, 88, 93, 98, 101, 112, 115 and 117, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. The vote against 434 was not voted in favour, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 7, to the inserted article. 4d paragraph 1 The Senate proposes to add point 9. Amendment 107 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 7 and 107 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. 3 Members voted in favour, against - 427, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 8, the following article is added: Article 5d (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Point 2 of the Senate proposes to clarify the concept of the value of the contract. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 9. to Article. 9 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 10. The Senate proposes to add an article. 9a and do not add Article. 83a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 13, the following article is added: Article 10a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 5 The Sejm proposes to delete the appointment and the word "signed" and to replace it with the words "and sign." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against the 13th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 14 to Article. 10c paragraph. 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 14th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 16. The Senate is proposing a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 18. The Senate proposes inter alia. delete the words "or objective and non-discriminatory criteria," hereinafter referred to as "selection criteria" in Article. 22a paragraph. 1 and 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 19. to the inserted article. 22a paragraph. 3 The Senate proposes a change of vocation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 20, to the added article. 22c paragraph. Point 1, paragraph 1. Two and... 4, I'm sorry, it's indistinctly written here, and the Senate proposes, among other things. The term "Commerce' shall be replaced by "Commerce'. [[Game in the O.R.]] No, it's clearly written. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Questions are raised by Members. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u517	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government project provides for a solution to determine, in the evaluation of the entity which takes part in the public procurement procedure, its economic and financial conditions, inter alia. minimum annual income. That's the solution the Sejm took. The Senate has changed this - it suggests that the word "profit" should be replaced by "turnover." As far as the Polish regulations are concerned, but also the documents that can be used by the starter in the tender, he submits a tax declaration, both annual and partial, monthly, and it is a credible document. When we take the solution that we indicate that this is a turnover, we need an additional document, we multiply the documents. It is true that in the regulation of the European Union there is a term for "turnover," but in the Polish legislation the word "income" is a term that functions both [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the tax reports as well as in the financial statements. There's no need to multiply documents. The Sejm and the government have already proposed such solutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u518	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u519	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, when we received the printing project No 366 - the amendment of the Public Procurement Law - it was a printing that had almost 900 pages - we had a few days to accept it. Today we are already 2 months after the date when this directive should be implemented. My question is this: Are you aware that all Poles, regardless of their views, expect us to make clear, transparent and understandable law? Meanwhile, the Senate proposes a change to replace the word "income" with the word "turnover," a concept that does not function in the Public Procurement Law. Therefore, this amendment is in fact a contradiction of what Poles expect. I therefore ask that the entire High House vote against this amendment because it is simply harmful and works against the interests of citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u520	Ladies and gentlemen, no questions asked. [[Joy in the Chamber]] There were recommendations on how to vote. [[Voice from the room: No really, no questions, no rules.]] That is why we will proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. 207 votes against, 224 and 4 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 23. to Article. 26 The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. 7 Members voted against - 429, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 25. to Article. 30 in the added mouth. Point 8 (2) (a) e Senate proposes to add the word "product" after the word "marking." The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 25th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. The vote was 418 against 18 Members, and no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 26. The Senate proposes inter alia. the new wording of Article. 41 (15) and Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 26th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 27 to Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 in the added paragraph 15, the Senate proposes that the words "they may be replaced by "they shall have." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 27th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. The vote was 2 against - 430, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 29 to Article. 36b in the added mouth. 1a The Senate proposes that the words 'their legal representatives' be replaced by 'people to contact them'. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 29th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 31 to Article. 37 The Senate proposes a new wording of the added paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 31st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 32. to Article. 37 in the added mouth. 6 The Senate proposes that, after expressing its name, it should add words to the specifications of the essential terms and conditions of the contract. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 32nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 33. to Article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Senate proposes that the provision of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 applied accordingly. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 33rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 36. to Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4a The Senate proposes that the second word "declarations" be replaced by the words "declarations" referred to in Article. 25a paragraph. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 36th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. 1 Member voted against - 434. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 37. to Article. 48 (1) (a) Point 2 (7) of the Senate proposes that the contract notice should also include a list of statements or documents proving compliance with the selection criteria if they are established. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 37th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. The vote was 6 against - 428, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 39. to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 The Senate proposes to delete the second sentence. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 39th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. 1 Member voted in favour, 428 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 40. The Senate proposes, among other things, that in the article. 84 do not repeal paragraph. 2 and in Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of Amendment 64 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 40 and 64, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendment 41. The Senate proposes inter alia. other wording of point 1 of Article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 41st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 42. to the added article. 55a The Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 42nd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. 7 Members voted in favour, against 422. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 43. to Article. Article 57 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 The Senate proposes that the initial provisions of Article be laid down for the submission of tenders. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 43rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 44. The Senate is proposing a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 44th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 46 to Article. 58 The Senate proposes a different wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 46th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. 1 Member voted against - 432. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 48. to Article. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 48th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. The vote was 422 against - 12. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Amendment 49. The Senate, among others. proposes that the provision of the Article. 60c paragraph. Point 4 provided for the possibility of dividing the competitive dialogue into stages. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 49th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 1 Member voted in favour, 431 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 52 to Article. 62 The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph. 3 and mouth proding. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 52nd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 54 to Article. 67 The Senate proposes not to add paragraph. 1c. Amendment 119 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 54 and 119, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 55 to Article. 67 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 11 to 13. Amendments 100, 102 and 120 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 55, 100, 102 and 120 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 1 Member voted against - 434. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 57 to Article. 86 The Senate proposes paragraph 1. 3 mark as paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 57th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 59. to Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (6) of the Senate proposes that the contracting authority reject the tender if it contains errors in the calculation of the price or cost. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 59th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote against 432, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 61 to Article. 91 The Senate proposes a new wording of the added paragraph. 2b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 61st amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 62 to Article. 91 The Senate proposes a new wording of the added paragraph. 2c. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 62nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 63 to Article. 91 in the added mouth. 3c The Senate proposes a different wording of the introduction into the calculation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 63rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 65, the following article is added: 91d paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes to add the words "after the failure has been removed." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 65th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 67 to Article. Article 94 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 of the Senate proposes to delete point 3. a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 67th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 70, to the inserted article. Article 101a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 70 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 73, the following article is added: 104e paragraph. 5 The Senate proposes that the contracting authority choose the most advantageous tender on the basis of the criteria for assessing the tenders set out in the contract notice. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 73rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 74 to the inserted article. 104g paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes that electronic catalogues be included in the application for admission to a dynamic purchasing system. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 74th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 1 Member voted in favour, 432 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 76 to Article. 131e Senat proposes among others. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the new wording of point 1 and the new wording of the added paragraph. 1b and paragraph 1. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 76th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. The vote was 166, against 267, and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 77 to Article. 131g The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 6. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 77th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 78. to Article. 131h. In the second sentence, the Senate proposes that the provisions of Article be adopted. 91a to 91e were used as appropriate. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 78th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 1 Member voted against - 427. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 79, to the inserted article. 131ia Senat proposes to add points 5 to 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 79th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. 15 Members voted against - 417. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 80 to Article. The 131n Senate proposes that paragraph be repealed. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 80th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 1 Member voted against - 428. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 81 to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Point 2 of the Senate proposes an The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 81st amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. 169 voted against - 264, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 82 to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 82nd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 83. The Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 3e in Article 134. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 83rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 1 Member voted in favour, 429 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 84 to Article. The 134th Senate proposes that paragraph be repealed. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 84th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 85 to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 85th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. The vote was 129, against - 305. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 86 to Article. Paragraph 134e 1 The Senate proposes that the contracting authority should be able to open a procedure for the award of a sectoral contract by means of a restricted tender or by negotiation with a notice stating the establishment of a system for the qualification of economic operators. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 86th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. Against the vote of 430, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 87 to Article. 135 in the added paragraph. 6a The Senate proposes a new wording of points 2 and 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 87th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 89 to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The Senate proposes an amendment to the calculation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 89th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 90 to Article. 138 The Senate proposes to maintain the existing wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 90th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 91 to Article. 138c The Senate proposes a different wording of the added paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 91st amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Against 429 votes, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 92. The Senate proposes inter alia. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 2 138g. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 92nd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 1 Member voted in favour, 430 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 94. The Senate proposes a new wording of the following article. 138m and deletion of Article. 138o. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 94th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 4 Members voted in favour, 426 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 95, to the added article. Article 138q (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 95th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. 161 votes against - 273 Members. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 96, the following article is added: Article 138s (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 138s. 2 The Senate proposes that the contracting authority reject the tender also in the cases specified in the contract notice. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 96th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. No one voted against - 431, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 97 to Article. 144 The Senate proposes a new wording of the added paragraph. 1d. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 97th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 417, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 99 to Article. 144a The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph. 1 point 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 99th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 1 Member voted in favour, 434 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 103, to the inserted article. 154c The Senate proposes among others. the new wording of paragraph. 1 and 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 103rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 104 to Article. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 The Senate proposes a new wording of point 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 104th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 105, to the inserted article. 23a of the Act on National Archive Resources and Archives The Senate proposes that this provision be applied to an order whose value exceeds the equivalent of 30 thousand in zlotys. Euros. Amendments 106 and 114 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against amendments 105, 106 and 114 would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 108 to Article. 1a 4 of the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund, the Senate proposes to delete the words and/or final offers. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen is against the 108th amendment, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 1 Member voted in favour, 433 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 109 and 110. The Senate reported it to the article. 7 amending law containing amendments to the Cleanliness and Order Law in municipalities. In Amendment 109 to Article. 6c The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 2a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Questions are raised: Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, then Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u521	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Prime Minister. What has happened since the adoption of the bill at the time of the last vote that you wish to corrupt by adopting the Senate resolution of this law? This law greatly complicates the functioning of local authorities, introduces two rules for cleaning up, because this applies to the disposal of impurities and garbage in the municipality. In one place two companies will have to be selected, because this applies to inhabited and uninhabited objects. The uninhabited ones aren't empty buildings. They're public buildings. There's a building where half of them live and half of them don't live. Who's gonna take out the trash? The local governments clearly protested at the committee's meeting against such solutions, and I believe that this appeal was reached by each of you, because this law is impossible to implement. They're gonna dump trash in one building, one garbage truck in the other. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What made such a political approach to these solutions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u522	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor. Then Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u523	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! For several months we have heard from Law and Justice declarations that they will support small and medium-sized enterprises, mainly about Polish capital. So what? You have arranged for Polish companies that have invested in wind energy, deleted the possibility of developing civic energy and reduced the benefits for small companies in the shipbuilding sector. Today we conclude the process on the Public Procurement Act, the solutions of which, so-called. In-house, it can in the near future lead to the bankruptcy of many small and medium-sized enterprises, mainly family-owned, about Polish capital. Modern was against this principle in-house from the beginning. Firstly, this limits the possibility of competition, which is likely to lead to a much higher cost for citizens' services. On behalf of all the entrepreneurs you care about, I appeal: stop supporting us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You got it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u524	Let's agree that the question has been asked. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u525	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Dear Members, much has already been said about in-house, but I have to ask a short question, because this amendment is in fact aimed at preserving a certain part of the free market in Poland, while continuing with the previous speaker's statement, I have a question to the government because it is a government presentation. When will the government finally liquidate the free market in Poland, so that everything will be handled by the state? We've had this kind of system before, we know it didn't work out. Unfortunately, a number of laws which the State introduces, including this amendment to the Public Procurement Law, are in fact aimed at overthrowing the free market in Poland and returning to socialism. [[National Socialism.]] So that I ask you to answer the question: When will you finally eliminate the free market in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u526	Very interesting question, sir, but... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr Mark Owl, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u527	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[And we're in the woods.]] In this bill, the government proposed 167 amendments. But this is a special situation. More than 200 amendments were tabled by the Ministry of Development, more than 100 were taken over by the PiS Members and more than 100 were taken over by the PiS Senators. This is a record that will probably be very difficult for you in this term of office. [[Game in the O.R.]] I have a suggestion and a request to the Prime Minister that Prime Minister Morawiecki should commit himself to stop talking about dirdimulas and take care of a solid job. I know the government doesn't pay $3 million a year, only less than $200,000, but the public service is committed to something. You can't embarrass yourself like that. You lack the logic to make these changes, and this example of Amendment 109 is exactly the same - once for, once against. It's just you and me... [[What's the amendment about?]] About in-house. You may not know how well I know this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u528	Thank you very much. Does Minister Mariusz Haladyj of the Ministry of Development want to refer? [[Maybe not, better not.]] You're welcome. I would like to inform you that Mr Mariusz Haladyj, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u529	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! What made you decide to change your position? Senators' amendment tabled in plenary of the Senate. The Senate has every right to report amendments. There were no such amendments at the seymical stage. Mr Meysztowicz's attention is more about the in-house institutions in general, not about the Senate amendment, and is therefore without object in this regard. I find Mr Grabowski's question rhetorical, as I understand it. If you don't think it's rhetorical, then there are no plans. [[Go ahead, have more courage.]] and Mr Owl. 200 amendments were not 200 government amendments, they were in the vast majority of legislative amendments. And it's not the only law where the scale of the amendments is. Also the laws adopted in previous terms, even very good laws, had a lot of legislative amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u530	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 109th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. 18 Members voted against - 257, 145 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 110. The Senate proposes to delete the article. 6g. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 110th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 111. The Senate proposes amendments to the Government Administration Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 111 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 113 to Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on liability for violation of the discipline of public finances The Senate proposes inter alia. in point 3, after the word "public', add the words "or' required from economic operators of evidence'. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 113rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 116. The Senate proposes to add an episodeal provision. Amendment 118 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 116th and 118th would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 2 Members voted in favour, against 429. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We return to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Research Institutes. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment to the article. Paragraph 24 5a and Article 5a Article 26 (2) (b) 3a The Act on Research Institutes The Senate proposes other rules for the designation of a person appointed to perform the duties of Director. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. 20 votes against - 395 Members abstained 11. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law. We shall vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 3. The Senate proposes legislative, editorial and legislative changes specifically. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. Nobody voted against - 417, 11 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We would like to refer to item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. We shall vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 14 were tabled in Article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Renewable Energy Sources Act. In the first amendment to Article. Point 2 (a) of the Senate proposes that the words "members of the cluster' be replaced by "classer'. Amendments 2 to 4, 6, 8, 9, 11 and 15 are combined with this amendment. We are voting on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 1 to 4, 6, 8, 9, 11 and 15, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 5, the Senate proposes an editorial change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 61 The Senate proposes that the term "economy" be replaced by "energy." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 83 The Senate proposes to give a new wording to the paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. amend the wording of the Article. 116. Amendments 14 and 16 are combined with this amendment. We are voting on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Questions are raised by Members. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club. Then Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u531	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We all know that this bill is not only bad, but it's not about RES, it's against RES. But she's also against Polish families. It deprives them of guaranteed tariffs, i.e. the possibility of producing at fair price energy for their own needs, imposes an additional tax in the form of an increase in the transitional charge of PLN 96 per year, but also in this Senate amendment it removes protection in terms of increases in heat prices. In this amendment, this protection, which was included in the Act, was passed on to regulation by a regulation which, of course, can be shaped as necessary, especially in the heating sector. The fact that Polish families are not protected either in terms of their energy bills or in terms of their ability to produce energy for their own use is not enough to protect themselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] heat prices. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u532	I thank you for this explanation. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u533	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! This amendment, like the entire bill, is an excellent illustration of how we should not create law. Although we do not record the number of amendments tabled here, in relation to the content of this law, there is a lot to regulate these amendments. The project was created as a parliamentary project, although it was actually edited at the Ministry of Energy. How necessary in this important consultation regulation for the economy has been avoided. 60 amendments were tabled at first reading, in fact auto-corrections, in the second and 17 Senate amendments. This isn't the way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u534	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 12, 14 and 16 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. 170 Members voted against - 246, 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 13th amendment to the article. 168 The Senate proposes to add a new wording to point 6a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against the 13th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. One Member voted against 413 and 14 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. Paragraph 20 (2) of the Law amending the Senate proposes a different wording of the transitional provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u535	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is the last vote we've voted to break this bill, here we're not able to fix anything. Regardless of this, I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister knows - I read it on the High Voltage portal - that on Monday we had only 50 MW of power reserve in the country, and does he know what forecasts are coming for the next time, because there are big heats coming, and so happens, that as the heat rises, the demand for power increases. The Germans have the opposite, if the sun shines more, it is a larger generation of electricity. The forecasts that we hear today show that there will be incredible heat in the coming days. Will there be a power outage? I'm asking because there were breaks last year and there were lessons to be learned from it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did the government have any consequences for this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u536	Thank you. The question is raised by Maciej Małecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u537	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With all due respect, a representative of the Polish People's Party is one of the last people in this room who have the right to pay attention... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Applause]] ...at the risk of shutting down power and blackout... [[Voice from the room: But what is it?]] Mr President, one and a half years ago, at the Council of the Treasury... [[Voice from the room: He's the same parliamentarians.]] ... personally I asked a question about securing Poles in difficult situations with regard to the availability of electricity. And both the Minister of the Treasury and all the presidents of energy companies, like one husband, assured that in Poland there is no risk of blackout... [[And it wasn't!]] ...like one husband, they assured... [[It was.]] ...that they still have unused powers. That's one thing. Now the second thing, the basic one. The government of law and justice and the majority of the parliament... [[In your day, even the power ran out.]] ...which this government supports, does not intend to take part in the race for primacy, to be the primate of the European Union in renewable energy sources, the most capricious, the most unstable... [[That's right, very good.]] ...the cost of wallets of Polish families. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u538	No, no, that wasn't a question for you. [[Thank you very much for this declaration. Great.]] [[But I want to correct it.]] No, you can't answer if there wasn't... Uh-huh, corrigendum mode. Please, Mr Kasprzak, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u539	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! [[But correct what?]] [[It wasn't mentioned.]] Yes. After last year's 20th level of power, a committee was set up, a team that recommended that renewable energy sources, including photovoltaic energy, a small generation, be activated, because this would provide the possibility to protect itself during the greatest heat, at the time of the highest sunshine against blackout. [[But there's no ban.]] And my question: Has this been accomplished by the current government? I'm asking because those were the conclusions after last year's blackouts. Can we expect, because we are already living in a new reality, that this year will not run out of electricity? That's a tough question. I know it's a difficult question, but I want to know if any conclusions have been drawn from it, and it's not just bouncing off a chopstick. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u540	The honourable Member actually repeated the question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. Against 415 votes, 14 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Labour Code and some other laws. We shall vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 179 § 1 and 2 of the Labour Code Act The Senate proposes to amend the reference. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 48 (1) (a) 9 and Article 9 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the Ombudsman of Entrepreneur's Rights. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. The question is raised by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party. Please? [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: As an applicant.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak is an applicant Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u541	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say that I am surprised at the position, especially in the case of Law and Justice, because it once supported such a solution, made its proposal to appoint an ombudsman, and we supported it. Today it is really incomprehensible to me because entrepreneurs expect such solutions. This is necessary because the situation of entrepreneurs is becoming more difficult, the law is complicated, there are no improvements in the law, it was said that there would be a code of business rights, and that does not exist, there is no such thing at all. New taxes are imposed, very often incomprehensible new burdens for entrepreneurs, so it is important that entrepreneurs have the opportunity to defend themselves against state authorities, state institutions. Polish People's Party, in fulfilling these declarations that came out here last week when we talked about the Entrepreneur's Day resolution and adopted it, presented this project today. I am sorry to say that this is a huge surprise for us, which is why in the near future we will present a package of solutions for entrepreneurs, which will solve these difficult situations, what the Law and Justice often say, but unfortunately with implementation we have problems. [[Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Bravo!]] So we'll be ahead of you in this and next week we'll be presenting a project of dozens of solutions that will meet the expectations of entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u542	The questions are raised by Mr Adam Abramowicz, the Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u543	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Questions to the Member of the applicant's representative: Is it true that in addition to the Club Law and Justice for rejection at first reading, the Kukiz Club and the Modern Club will also vote, and the Civic Platform, which is to vote against, 3 years ago in the case of an identical project, voted to reject it at first reading and rejected it? [[But what about it?]] [[What a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u544	Wait a minute, wait a minute. There was a question formulated... [[Is the truth...]] I am very sorry, sir, but I am in the middle of a debate. The question was, is it true? [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: May the Member of the applicant answer.]] Yes, but wait a minute, sir, don't be so impatient. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u545	I have a question for the Members of the applicants: How long do you want to recruit entrepreneurs for propaganda, cheap propaganda, some spokespersons, etc.? Let's make a good law here, lower the costs, that's the most important thing. Let's not play that little pussycat any more. [[Applause]] [[And who was that question to?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u546	Thank you, sir. These questions were addressed to the applicant's representative, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u547	I would like to say to Mr PiS that the Platform... There can't be political games here. I was talking about it during my speech when I presented it. Because if the Platform were against today, I'd say that the PiS would have voted in favour of this bill. [[Applause]] You'd vote for that bill. [[Then I'd vote against twice.]] I'll even say right now that if the Platform made a decision to vote against, we'd still be saving that bill. [[Applause]] Because it's on this principle: like Platform for, it's you against. Don't do this kind of thing because entrepreneurs are watching you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Look, maybe you'll change your mind.]] [[Let's do this!]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u548	No, sir, we all understand what's going on, let's not be charmed. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[But in what mode?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in print 573, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Four Members abstained from voting 277, against - 146. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. High Izbo! The Council of Ministers submitted a draft retail tax law contained in print No 615. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of this draft law. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government bill on retail tax (Print No.615) will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 227 Members voted against 178 and 26 abstentions. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. Do I hear an objection? I don't hear any objections. I remind you... [[Objection.]] Is there an objection? Only if there's an objection, what's the offer? Zero? [[Ten minutes!]] Ten minutes. Then we'll vote. I propose that the Sejm vote on the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. Counterproposal is a 10-minute statement. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of listening to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Three minutes!]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Three minutes is enough.]] 435 Members voted. 258 Members voted against - 170, 7 Members abstained. So we're stuck with five-minute statements. I would like to remind you that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club has requested that the agenda be supplemented by a point covering the information of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development on the appeal of the presidents of Polish horse studs in Janów Podlaski and Michałów. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with a point of... [[Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter.]] [[Hand out of pocket when you talk to a marshal.]] Mr President, we are already voting. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...information from the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development on the appeal of the presidents of Polish horse studs in Janów Podlaski and Michałów, he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Oh, he didn't make it.]] 430 Members voted. 170 voted against - 233, with 27. I find that the Sejm has rejected the proposal. Mr Bogusław Sonik? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] We're pulling out. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[He resigned.]] Are we retreating? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[No, he backed out.]] The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Bogusław Sonik. There you go. [[There won't be a break, sir.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u549	Mr. Marshal! I would like to point out that, in such situations, if you add any points to the agenda after the Seniors Convention has been settled, Members should be informed, with one vote in favour and the other against, of the matter that was discussed at the Seniors Convention, so that we can give our vote fully consciously. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u550	I accept your attention. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And I encourage your Members because it is difficult for me to speak in favour and against at the same time. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But I can imagine it could be that way, too. [[Applause]] [[You can try.]] We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation (prints Nos 632 and 632-A). The group of Members submitted a draft resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the said Extraordinary Commission. I ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to present the justification for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u551	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I think life has some solutions. We have just discussed, caring about Polish entrepreneurs, and we can already process a fragment of the answer in a moment, because the newly appointed deregulation committee will also be able to deal with this area of action. The facts are known that we are growing in the number of laws, we know that in 1989 the Official Journal of the Law contained over 1100 pages, 10 years later - more than 7 thousand, and there have already been such moments that it exceeded 20,000, i.e. we are observing - and this is probably a civilization phenomenon - a permanent tendency to increase bureaucracy and also enter this area related to the economy, with the market. It seems that the creation of a new committee may allow for changes which, as it were, will reduce us from a number of provisions and put in place such mechanisms that we will be able to systematically review the costs and benefits of the law, and there are calculations in some countries that show that the adaptation of companies, for example. the adopted rights can be calculated in a specific percentage of the gross domestic product of a given country, i.e. very high costs. It seems that the committee can open up space to listen to different reasons, sometimes contradictory, that it can be a bridge to a certain area of cooperation with the Supreme Audit Chamber, with a spokesperson of civil rights, with institutions of the type of UOKiK, of course with local authorities, but it can also be an interesting solution to cooperate with universities, especially with the directions of law, administration. Young people seem to have a perspective that will allow them to look at the numerous laws in force at a certain distance. Surely the work of the committee can result in a concern for the balance between the safety of business activity and the scope of the tax authorities' authority. [[Applause]] Surely, we are seeing a very good reception of the package of facilitations for entrepreneurs involved in the activities of Prime Minister Morawiecki and, undoubtedly, the parliamentarians working in this committee will be able to extend the scope of this good view of the law. There are a number of areas of action where you can imagine modification of the law, there is certainly a space to continue deregulation of professions, there is space in the areas of construction, spatial planning, cooperatives, activities with professional corporations, institutional ones, certainly such an area is labour law. [[Applause]] Of course, given your reaction, I can see that you already want to vote and work on this committee... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] ...which I personally sincerely encourage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u552	Thank you very much for this very broad explanation. High Seym! At first reading, no one comes forward for discussion. In that case, I propose that the Sejm proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution. I don't hear any objections. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. I know you are asking for the floor of Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u553	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club - we also wrote this in writing - we ask for a change: Mr Tomasz Lenz as a committee instead of Mrs Małgorzata Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u554	Yes, I confirm that an amendment has been tabled to change the personal composition of the deregulation committee, in which, in return, I will repeat, with Maria Małgorzata Janyska... Janyska, I'm sorry... [[Janyska.]] Janyska, that's right, Janyska. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] ...the candidacy of Mr Tomasz Lenz has been proposed. I will put this amendment to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 406, against - 13, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole, in the form of prints Nos 632 and 632-A, along with the amendment adopted, will be willing to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 411 Members voted against - 9 and 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for deregulation. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 651). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? Nobody volunteer; at least I can't hear, I can't see. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No. 651, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 409, against four, with two abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: First reading of the government bill on retail tax (Print No 615). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u555	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's my honor to introduce you. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Government draft retail tax law contained in print No 615. The bill submitted introduces a new public tribute to the Polish tax system. The proposed legislation has been subject to extensive public consultation. During the meetings held, also in the Sejm at the invitation of the Parliamentary Team for the Support of Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism, discussions were held with representatives of the business community on optimal solutions. The proposal submitted to the High House is the result of this consultation. The main objective of the project is to increase the tax revenue of the State budget for the financing of budgetary expenditure under the As a government, we also hope to reverse the negative trend, which is the constant decline in the number of small shops which are often the sole source of Polish families' livelihood. High Izbo! We propose the introduction of a new income tax directly charged to retailers with monthly revenues of a certain amount. According to the project, traders selling to consumers will be regarded as retailers. The taxation will be subject to the payment of disposals of goods, goods or parts of goods carried out both at the premises and outside the premises of the trader, e.g. at fairs or presentations. The project does not provide for taxation of online sales. The tax base will be the surplus of sales revenue of more than PLN 17 million in a given month. This means that every month there will be an equal amount free from which the seller will not pay the tax. As soon as this income is achieved, the surplus, calculated on a monthly basis separately, over this amount will be taxed. So that the obligation to submit a tax declaration will apply only to taxable persons who will earn revenue in a given month in excess of the amount free. The revenue shall be determined in principle on the basis of the volume of turnover checked by means of a register. Revenue will not include the tax due on goods and services. Sales to traders due to their economic activities will not be included in the tax base. The project provides for exemption from taxation of revenues from the paid disposal of energy materials such as natural gas, electricity, heat, water delivered to consumers via distribution networks, solid fuels, gas in fuel tanks and fuel oil. In addition, it is envisaged to exempt from taxation the sale of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices refunded or financed in whole or in part from the State budget. The project introduces two tax rates: first, the 0.8 rate for the tax base up to PLN 170 million, second, the 1.4 rate for the tax base over PLN 170 million. High Izbo! As I mentioned earlier, discussions on retail tax solutions in Poland lasted for many weeks. They also concerned the choice of a tax model, including the application of a linear rate or tax progression. The proposal currently submitted to the High House is a compromise between the original concept of several tiers of progress with higher taxation on Saturdays and Sundays and a low amount of free and linear tax. The mild scale proposed in the project is primarily justified by the redistributive objective. Large-income companies generally have greater payment opportunities and can more often use optimization practices. For these companies there are also so-called companies. economies of scale: the higher the sales, the lower its unit costs are. Undoubtedly, their ability to pay tax is greater. At the same time, a relatively high tax-free amount of PLN 17 million per month will serve as a safeguard against the smallest trading facilities with the lowest profitability. It is expected that the Act will enter into force on 1 August this year, so September will be the first month in which the revenue to the State budget for this tax will take place. The government estimates that gross revenue from retail tax will amount to around PLN 630 million in 2016, while net revenue, i.e. less the loss of income from income taxes of PIT and CIT, due to the cost nature of the tax estimated at about PLN 510 million. On the other hand, gross revenue should be estimated at about PLN 1.9 billion per year and net revenue - at PLN 1.5 billion per year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, During the drafting of the bill, the question of compliance with EU law was also examined. It should be pointed out that sectoral taxes imposed on shopkeepers exist in Member States of the European Union, such as France or Spain. We are in constant contact with the representatives of the European Commission. We explain to them how the tax works and point to the compatibility of the proposed rules with European Union rules, including those relating to State aid. Dear Marshal, High Seym! By passing the bill to the High House for consideration, I assure you by the government, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] that we are ready to participate in parliamentary work with full commitment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u556	There you go. I would like to inform you that at this point we will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska will be the first to speak. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But I would ask you to silence the conversation. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. Is there a Member? There it is. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u557	Thank you, Marshal, and I apologize for the confusion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present my position on the draft law on retail taxation in print No 615. The purpose of the bill is to introduce a new retail tax into the Polish tax system. This problem and this need have been dictated by budgetary considerations, but also by the search for mechanisms, ways to eliminate tax avoidance behaviour. For many years - this has to be made clear - the Poles have pointed out to Members the need for such legislative changes in order to put an end to the practices used in retail trade, especially by large networks, which were often owned by foreign operators and which, like mushrooms after the rain, multiplied on the Polish market in retail trade. So this is also a response to the expectations of citizens, and this must be said clearly. This is not, exceptionally, our invention, the politicians of Law and Justice, separated from reality. The Act very clearly clarifies the whole tax collection mechanism, defines the subject matter of taxation, tax entities, determines precisely what we mean by retail sales, by retailers, which means and when a tax obligation arises, determines the rates of tax and the jurisdiction of tax authorities. A representative of the Ministry of Finance spoke about these issues, whose speech preceded mine. Because the time to express the position of the parliamentary club is very short... Sorry, there was also talk of a very important thing, about exemptions, tax exemptions, which is why I'm going to try to... Since one of the redundancies is covered by online sales, I would like to dedicate a few words to it, Minister. Online sales were excluded from retail tax, but some large-scale shops sell on the Internet with home delivery. Doesn't the Ministry consider that there is a risk that direct sales in large-scale stores will be considered as online sales? If so, what action will the Ministry of Finance take to counter this practice? In view of the solutions proposed in the draft, is there not a risk that retail companies will be divided into smaller ones so that they are not subject to retail tax? After all, the owner can create even separate companies and various legal forms, as long as only the amount that constitutes the taxable amount is smaller, so that the amount paid is also reduced. I would like to ask you if the Ministry of Finance sees this problem and what is the chance that we will avoid this type of sharing behaviour into smaller entities that will thus avoid tax obligations. Does the Ministry of Finance plan to cover e.g. an additional tax on trade mark or company revenue, depending on the size of the revenue, since the tax on franchise or franchise entities has been waived? It was said in the discussion which took place in connection with this law, which took various forms, that it is indeed disbanded, is the result of some agreement that the liquidation of the advantages of online shops, i.e. exemption from this tax, is so necessary that it will not create [[♪ The bell ♪]] the possibility of closing online shops. So would it really be such a problem to close an online store? At most, it's just the flow of customers from this entity to others. Moreover, in the case of online sales in Poland by entities registered outside Poland, such cases are known, it would also be necessary to consider, Minister, the income from online sales affecting the account held in Poland and thus to include them in this tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u558	Thank you, Member, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u559	Has the Ministry checked what revenues are generated by distance sales only? So these problems...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u560	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u561	...which are not completely solved, there are several in the project. I'd like you to comment on that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u562	Thank you. Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u563	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Platform's position on the draft law introducing a retail tax. This trade tax was to be from March, it was to bring to the state budget 2 billion PLN already in 2016, it was to be a remedy for the non-payment of taxes by hypermarkets, to defend Polish trade against ugly foreign corporations and foreign capital. It's supposed to be like this. What's it like? The tax will bring the state budget around 500 million net this year, because if it brings anything next year, it is not known because the European Commission has already announced that it will question the progressive rate. It may turn out that you have lost a lot of time, or rather wasted a lot of time on representatives of the commercial industry, and the effect for the state budget will be small. What, on the other hand, is the protection of the Polish trader from foreign corporations? It looks even worse. Let's start with the fundamental issue. There is no tax, Minister, to support entrepreneurs. Support for entrepreneurs, and you know it perfectly well, is the lack of taxes. If the government needs to introduce a new tax, it should be done in such a way that the costs and damages made to businesses as a result of the introduction of this tax are as small as possible. Unfortunately, the Law and Justice do not apply to this principle. In a few points, I will explain to the Minister why, Minister, this bill is a very bad bill, and the whole idea of this tax is a very bad idea. Well, even if we assume that your election thesis that hypermarkets do not pay taxes is true, it is illogical to impose a new tax on an entity that avoids paying taxes, because if an entity avoids paying taxes, the new tax will not solve anything, because he will find a way to avoid it too. They'll do it the way the banks do it. If you want to seal the tax system, which is boastful, and every government has done so, use the instruments left by the Civic Platform. Use the law on foreign controlled companies, use the transfer pricing law - this is how the tax system is sealed, not by imposing a new tax. If you're saying that the biggest problem is with foreign trade networks, with the food industry, then why are you imposing this tax on the whole trade sector? What the household appliances RTV industry owes you, which is dominated by Polish entities, and they will be the biggest payer of this tax. Another reason - the tax should take into account, in particular income tax or income tax, the ability to bear it, i.e. the profitability should be taken into account. Different sectors have different profitability. You guys don't really take that into account, and they all have the same stakes. If we introduce free quotas or differentiate rates, this must be the result of market analysis. In the meantime, you're putting amounts completely off the ceiling. There's no justification. In the explanatory memorandum of the Act we do not read about it, I do not know that your research shows that there is an increase in profitability in a given sector after crossing some revenue limit. You didn't do anything like that because all you care about is the fiscal element. It's about the money you're just missing in the budget. The big problem is that if the European Commission questions this tax, you will have to pay it back to the taxpayers. Even though you have taken four more resolutions on Poland's sovereignty and even if you swear that you are not interested in what the European Commission says, they are entrepreneurs - and they are Polish [[♪ The bell ♪]] entrepreneurs - will pursue their rights before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Moreover, the Commissioner from Law and Justice referred to online trade and related problems. I would like to ask the Minister: Is it so that foreign stores will avoid taxation because individual shops have different tax identification numbers and Polish networks work on the same NIP and they will pay the tax? Last sentence, Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. The fundamental argument is also that every trade tax is passed on to the consumer. This one's already been moved. The CSO's gonna show up soon. Again. It's a bad bill, it's a bad tax. The best way to do that is to give it up...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u564	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u565	...that's why, Mr. Marshal, I'm filing a motion to reject this project at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u566	Thank you. Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u567	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A little history. On 4 July last year, at the Law and Justice Programme Convention in Katowice, the current candidate for the Prime Minister of the Polish Government announced the introduction of a tax on large-area shops. I will admit that listening to this, I was pleased because I knew that the Western networks avoid paying this tax in the form of CIT, so I decided that this is a step in the right direction that will lead to the situation of tax justice in Poland. Companies, Western networks - those who are interested in tax issues - pay CIT at a really low level, so this idea was very good. In December last year, together with other Members from the parliamentary team, we were looking for such a level of agreement between the government and the larger, smaller, Polish and foreign networks, we watched this procession of this tax. It ended with the fact that from this great idea of a large-scale store tax we have a retail income tax that affects everyone. And now what's the thing that worries me? The amount free of PLN 17 million seems to be a large amount per year, and now that we decide to divide this amount not per year, but per day, per trading day, this amount is not so gigantic, because 47 thousand. day-to-day sales at the store. Believe me, this tax will hit Polish networks, which over the years have been able to organize themselves well. This retail tax will hit Polish trading networks, which will cost 0.8% at low profitability. And this is not a solution that pleases me as a person who is partly a representative of Polish trade, which is not a giant that cannot afford it. Take into account tax creation, various tricks, let's say, which can do Western networks, which are here, as my predecessor rightly said, will divide and avoid a scale of 1.4%. They'll go into a lower ceiling or even lower, because they can do it. Polish trading networks can't afford it, they won't do it and they'll pay 0.8% from his income. With the profitability of the Polish networks, which is much lower than the profitability of the Western networks, this idea of yours will not impact, contrary to your expectations, on the Western networks, and will hit mainly Polish commercial networks. Believe me, that's what's gonna happen. Western networks will do different because they are powerful, manipulative, they will force suppliers to lower the prices of goods, because they will argue that they have to pay tax, so they will force these reductions, and customers in the store can make such marketing options, for example, that they will increase the price, let's say 2%, because this price will be argued by the fact that there will be a tax. Look, these aren't good solutions. This is not a step in the right direction, especially since you assume that relative revenues from this tax are not to be so high. You assumed a hypermarket tax, if I remember correctly, $3,400 million, and right now you're assuming that this tax will increase within a maximum of 1.5 million. billion PLN, which I do not believe in because you overestimated your influence. That's not a good solution. You're arguing in the explanatory memorandum that you have to raise money for the 500+ program. I understand, because you didn't get the bank tax and the proceeds are miserable because the banks beat you. There's a way out and the banks are doing it. The frequency of LTE - it was not possible to make auctions here, there are no such influences. We have a deficit, no money. But looking for money like this is the worst way to do it, because you're not hitting what you want to hit, you're hitting Polish trade. You only have a fiscal target planned, if there's a target, it has to be a target to shoot. You're just shooting at Polish trade. That's not a good solution. I hope that you will be able - if, of course, this project goes further and I have no delusions about it - to consider a free amount in the committee. What do we need to do so that we can work together on this? Let's do some analysis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on specific Polish trade networks, which I can point out to you. They're not big. These are shops that came from rural shops that could afford to use the ability to organize themselves - there was even this network, I wouldn't say the name, because it doesn't belong here - to create my own distribution center...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u568	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u569	They may still work, but this idea of yours is hitting these networks. That's not a good solution...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u570	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u571	...so given that your project hits Polish trade... [[Mr President, you have miscounted. It's 17 million a month.]] No, I counted it very well. I did the math right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u572	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u573	We're not voting for...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u574	Are you trying to force me to take your voice away from you?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u575	...to continue proceding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u576	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. Let me remind you that statements on behalf of clubs and circles are five minutes long.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u577	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! I suggest you read the bill. On many issues I will agree, but the amount free is PLN 17 million per month, not a year, and then the day's pay is 560 thousand, and not... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ... 47,000, just like you thought. But one thing is certain that the day of passing this law will be the black day of Polish trade. The main purpose of the bill is to find money for the promises of the Law and Justice electoral. The government continues to translate Poles' money from the right to the left pocket, pretending to give them something, and actually imposes more taxes on Poles. However, the government is doing so very badly. The state budget for the current year assumes that 2 billion PLN will come from this tax, but we already know today that only 1/4 of this amount will be affected, that it will be 510 million PLN net, i.e. taking into account the loss in CIT. The tax will be paid by Poles and there is no doubt about it. Retail trade is characterised by a very low margin. According to the GUS for 2015, the average net margin in this industry is 1.8%. Stores will have to either raise prices or cut costs. Customers, suppliers, subcontractors, employees, often Polish companies, food producers, security companies, cleaning up these shops will suffer. The tax will be particularly severe for the poorest citizens, and there is no doubt here either, because it is primarily they who shop at food discounts, which will pay the highest amounts. The tax will not protect small neighborhood shops, which here often raises the Law and Justice. It will still be more expensive in them, because the difference in prices between residential shops and markets is much bigger than this tax, so Poles will not change their habits. Just slowing down the fastest sprinter won't make the slowest run faster, especially if they're so divided by their condition. Suppliers who lose their contracts with large networks will be bouncing their losses at the expense of small wholesalers and shops, because each producer will have to earn theirs, and brands will simply come out of the position of strength. The tax will not strengthen Polish networks in competition with international corporations. The European Commission will question progress and ultimately all will pay evenly. The project contains a high amount of free money and a progressive rate, which causes a great risk that the law will be challenged in the European Commission, which has already asked the Polish government twice to clarify this matter. The government does not learn any lessons from previous experiences of Hungary, which, as a result of the European Commission's observations, have withdrawn from the progressive tax. The tax, of course, also means additional tax bureaucracy, and tax bureaucracy is the biggest brake for the development of Polish entrepreneurship. That's a fact, too. But what's most important about all this? PiS was going to punish big international corporations, commercial networks for that... [[Not to punish, but to tax, my fellow Member. Please be precise.]] ...that they don't pay income tax in Poland, but it didn't work out. The present law will make certain large international networks pay absolutely nothing tax. As they operate in the franchise system, they will not pay any zloty, and quite the average size, the average Polish tax entities will pay. A space was also created to easily circumvent the tax. We are sure that Poland's resourcefulness will again be known and that in a few months most of the network will separate its branches, shops in individual localities, so that they operate on a separate NIP and benefit from a separate amount of free. The Act assumes that the tax will not be covered by services which accompany the sale of the goods but will be registered separately. Such regulations even encourage the sale of goods for gold and 50 PLN for the packaging service. That's another loophole we're seeing. Gastronomy services were excluded from the fees, which again exposes the problem of different treatment of services and catering goods in the Polish tax system. It's about this famous absurdity that causes different treatment of coffee in a cup and coffee in a paper cup. ♪ Tonight again ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will have the same problem when charging this tax. With such a law imposing a burden on Polish trade, killing Polish trade, Polish producers cannot go together and also, as a modern club, we submit a proposal to reject this law at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u578	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u579	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the government bill on retail tax. The bill introduces a new tax, which is not present in the Polish tax system: retail tax. This is a tax announced by the government a few months ago as such a miraculous addition to the state budget's revenue for the implementation of the 500+ programme. The original tax proposals raised huge controversy. They have raised many protests from both commercial organizations, shops and simply small sellers. A number of comments and reservations were made. It should be admitted that the changes made by the government side... Today, the project is significantly different from the original version. So it was like looking for the final version of this tax. The tax will be subject, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, to stationary sales, i.e. distance sales, i.e. via the Internet, will not be subject to this tax. This is an income tax on retail sales charged to retailers. The tax base is to amount to a surplus of retail revenues of more than PLN 17 million in a given month. Differences have been applied, i.e. progressive tax, rates of tax, depending on the amount achieved over that amount of revenue. This is 0.8% income surplus tax between PLN 17 million and PLN 170 million per month and 1,4% tax on excess sales revenue exceeding 170 million monthly. The revenue from retail sales will be the amounts received by the taxable person for the sale, including various types of advances, instalments or prepayments. Income will not include VAT due, but will include excise duty on goods subject to VAT. This revenue will be determined on the basis of the volume of turnover recorded on the register in a given month. Tax excluded, among others. natural gas, water, coal and some of its derivatives, as well as fuel oils, gas hydrocarbons used for fuel purposes, medicines, foodstuffs, recovered medical products and goods disposed of as part of the provision of catering services. In fact, after the protests of franchise networks, which were to be taxed like large companies and large-scale shops, the government withdrew from these ideas by increasing the tax-free amount. The government estimates that the current form of the law will only affect large, partly medium-sized enterprises. However, I do not think, High Izbo, that the burden of this tax should not be passed on in the form of an increase in the prices of goods to ordinary consumers. And thus the government implements its constant principle of strengthening with one hand the law, already today the rights of distribution regardless of the financial situation of the family, and the other hand of pulling the same money out of the pockets of its taxpayers, its citizens, from the pockets of Poles. I have serious doubts as to whether such a mixing can result in something good. We will not, ladies and gentlemen, support this project for this reason. It is thoughtless, unrealistic and even harmful to both sellers and customers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u580	Please. And at the moment you will be speaking with Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u581	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Position of the Management Board of the General National Movement on the draft law on retail tax. [[I don't think the Member is associated.]] The current Government of Law and Justice came to power, among others. under the motto of taxation of international large-scale shops networks. By raising this password, PiS declared protection of Polish trade and counteracting the drainage of the Polish market by large corporations. These requests should be considered fully justified and worthy of support by the National Movement, and they have been taken from national thought. Unfortunately, the draft retail tax law, which has recently been adopted by the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers, is so remote that it has ceased to pursue the national interest to the least extent. Why do we think the bill is missing? Firstly, the proposed tax strikes Polish and foreign entities to the same extent. Thus, it loses the value of promoting Polish trade and eliminating the competitive advantage of foreign networks, and it simply becomes another fiscal burden striking all citizens and reducing the overall competitiveness of the Polish economy. Commercial taxation in the form proposed in the bill can be avoided very easily. The Act ignores the fact that most commercial networks exist in the form of capital groups, groups of connected companies. However, in the case of the proposed tax, it is assumed that each network is one large company with common income. As a result of such a tax avoidance error, it is sufficient that the network divides into a number of smaller companies, each of which will be small enough to show revenue falling within the tax-free amount. In practice, therefore, it can be expected that the tax trading networks will not pay at all or almost at all and will be fully compliant. The PiS government translates these imperfections into the requirements of European Union law. This is not an explanation that can be accepted. Firstly, if EU law is contrary to Polish national interest, it should be considered whether further participation in the EU project makes sense and at least try to negotiate more favourable conditions for Poland to participate in the project. Secondly, let us ask whether the PiS leaders, raising the slogan of electoral taxation of international trade networks and asking for the votes of Polish voters under this slogan, did not realise that trade tax would be difficult to implement under EU law. If they did not know this, they give a terrible testimony to their political abilities and qualifications to rule the state. On the other hand, if they knew this and still raised such a slogan, it should be concluded that they had committed fraud against voters. Thirdly, recourse to the requirements of European Union law was a constant excuse for the previous discredited ruling crew. The Government of the Civic Platform has constantly explained its passiveness and lack of ability to repair any area of the state. Using such justification, the PiS government puts itself in one line with the previous ruling team and raises the suspicion that the loud anti-EU speeches by Prime Minister Beata Szydło are only apparent opposition. As the Board of National Movement [[♪ The bell ♪]] We call on the Law and Justice to abandon the defective bill on retail tax and to work on laws that will actually strengthen the market position of Polish entrepreneurs and stop international corporations from colonizing... [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u582	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u583	... Polish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u584	Thank you very much. There are 20 ladies and Members of the House for questions. I'm closing the list of questions. [[And me, me, and me, please add me up.]] [[You're still an MP.]] That's 21, and that's where I close the list. I'm setting the time - one minute. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u585	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As the Minister mentioned, at the beginning you actually consulted widely, so it moved a few months back, but I don't think it really did. Although we, as Members of the Civic Platform from Silesia, have done our homework because we have waived this tax on coal and have used this time. But, Minister, I don't think you did, because the tax was intended to be aimed at hypermarkets, to protect Polish trade from foreign corporations, while, as we hear, it covers the RTV industry, household appliances, which dominates the Polish market and, above all, is dominated by Polish companies on this market. So please answer: Will networks such as Euro shops, the Polish network, actually pay this tax, and how does this apply to your declarations widely proclaimed in the election campaign by the PiS, that only Western capital will pay it? And are you aware of this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the finance minister aware that this tax has already been passed on to the client...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u586	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u587	...though it hasn't come into force yet? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u588	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u589	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of retail tax was expected to bring nearly PLN 2 billion to the state budget in 2016. It was to be one of the sources of funding for the 500+ programme. The bill in the blue briefcase was discussed by Prime Minister Szydło during the election campaign. Turns out the bill wasn't ready, it was just an election slogan. Even now, another version of the bill will most likely be corrected. It is still unclear whether the tax rate will be progressive or linear. There's a lot of information coming from the government about this. But we're still in a hurry because there's not enough money to run the 500+ program. Meanwhile, a very short period of time before the law enters into force may give entrepreneurs no time to prepare for new obligations. It's gonna be chaos. You're putting it on Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A new tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u590	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u591	Why are you destroying Polish trade?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u592	The question is asked by Mr Sylvester Tulaev...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u593	Just a minute. In fact...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u594	...law and justice club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u595	You're actually assuming...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u596	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u597	...punishing large international networks... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and the Poles will pay for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u598	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u599	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project undoubtedly guarantees equal opportunities for Polish small companies. This project relates primarily to large players. And it is not as it has been said that 17 million zlotys are free on a yearly basis. This is the amount free per month. Is it true that the number of taxpayers... Can the number of taxpayers be estimated below 200 entities? This law is another example of the government being able to talk and engage in dialogue. Over 80 comments were submitted during the consultation. Note that 67 comments have been taken into account and six have been taken into account in part. Only eight comments were not taken into account, but due to the need for equal treatment of all retailers simply could not be taken into account. I will also point out that similar projects have been implemented in Hungary, France and Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u600	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Mrs Genowef Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u601	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project discussed today was aimed at taxing foreign hypermarkets. Since the beginning, there has been a great deal of controversy, after all, there have been numerous protests from commercial networks and small sellers. After working out today's version, much better than the original ones, there are still numerous questions. I'd like to ask them. Does the draft not violate the principle of the Constitution on equal treatment of economic operators? In its opinion, even the Foreign Minister points out the need for detailed justification for the progressive tax scale. We also know from media reports that there is correspondence with the European Commission, which also points out that this project violates European rules prohibiting discrimination against economic operators. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why I am asking the Minister to address these issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u602	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u603	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! After the turmoil and protests concerning the first draft retail tax law, the government submitted a new project, significantly different. It contains many ambiguities, raises doubts and questions. I have a specific question: How will the retail tax obligation be established for a trading facility focused on the Leviatan or Orlen commercial network? Will the sales value criterion, PLN 17 million per month, be applied to the network or to a specific store in this network? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You have to read the bill, it's all there.]] Relax, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u604	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u605	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a result of the consultation with the merchant environments of the draft retail tax law, the most controversial provisions, in particular, have disappeared in small domestic sellers grouped under one franchise brand. However, the adjustments made did not eliminate the main risks associated with the introduction of the new public tribute. Indeed, it is clear that large-scale trading networks most heavily affected by the tax burden will take appropriate steps to minimise the reduction of their revenues. This in turn, with a high degree of probability, will lead to the search for savings in the so-called. a human factor, that is, savings on employees. Let us not be deluded, let us not hide, however, that the essential part of the cost of additional public tribute will be covered by consumers and, in particular, by a group of the poorest customers of popular discounts, on which the main burden of financing revenues from the proposed tax will fall. The additional public tribute clearly threatens to raise the prices of the goods offered in these shops, which for many Poles are the only source of savings in the home budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I'm asking the Minister if he's... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u606	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Madame, please step out of the podium, and you can't hear me. Just stick to the time. We must strictly observe time discipline. Thank you very much. [[It's sad, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Marshal Kuchciński doesn't follow the rules, and you're lecturing us.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u607	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Because yesterday we had a holiday, entrepreneur's day, I'm going to ask on behalf of entrepreneurs. As there are signals to my parliamentary office that the commercial networks have already sent letters to their suppliers informing: it is you, dear suppliers, Polish entrepreneurs, who will pay this tax, and not us, commercial networks, often abroad, that I have a question: How will it be possible to protect the suppliers of commercial networks from carrying this tax on them in fact, because it can be so? [[There are no miracles.]] The other thing... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Wait a minute. Another issue is how you want to protect against multiple... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please don't disturb me. How do you want to protect yourself from the proliferation of entities which will aim to avoid this tax? On the other hand, the most important issue is this - and I stress this - how you want to secure suppliers, those who actually carry this tax burden. The state is raising here, perhaps a little populistly, that citizens will pay. Yes, citizens will pay, but mostly those who deliver goods to these large-scale shops. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u608	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question is asked by Mr Adam Abramowicz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u609	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Annually it decreases in Poland about 5 thousand. Small and medium-sized stores. We promised in the election campaign that we would stop, try to stop this process and tax hypermarkets. And this bill is a fulfillment of the electoral promise. Such a large tax-free amount will allow small shops at least a little breath. When it comes to accusations - here the nationals - that the national idea is not being pursued, it is necessary to ask associations of small and medium-sized shops what they say about this law. This is the first time that has been consulted so widely, for which I thank the Prime Minister and the Ministry, the Finance Minister. No taxes in Poland were discussed and consulted so strongly. The law is in line with what entrepreneurs expected, will help small and medium-sized enterprises, in line with the European Union directive, which orders small and medium-sized aid, and will provide money to the state budget from those companies that have avoided taxes today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question for the Minister... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u610	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u611	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! There is no element here that indicates that producers supplying their products to shops will be secured to the commercial networks so that the price will not be reduced, and therefore that the margin for their production is at the same level. You don't protect a client from raises. [[How did you secure it?]] For years we have tried to tell Polish entrepreneurs: build capital, build large companies, you will have a chance of equal competition. The Union shall compete on an equal footing. We would therefore like to ask how the Minister will guarantee - I understand that you will vote, from this discussion you can see - how you will guarantee this control so that the costs of this tax are not passed on to the consumer. That's my last question. You asked so much and so much about foreign controlled companies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] pointing to the late publication of this bill... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u612	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice Club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u613	Mr. Marshal, the end of the sentence cannot be said. It's 3.3...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u614	There's a minute for that, Member. You have to fit in at that time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u615	I'm in the middle of my last sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u616	There's no obstacle to that sentence being shortened, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u617	I'd like to say... [[This concerns all Members, Mr Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u618	Yes, all Members. You're welcome, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u619	I'd like you to tell Marshal Kuchciński to start following the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u620	He's very strict with the rules. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[That's not true, marshal.]] Member, please step down from the bleacher.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u621	I just wanted to say it's 3.3 billion. Maybe you'll hear me, Mr. Marshal, if you've cut my mic off. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u622	You're welcome, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u623	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[That's just rude!]] As a rule, when a government or, of course, a parliament introduces a new tribute, a new tax... [[Professor.]] ...we are dealing with protests of those who will be bound by this tax. [[A little class, Mr. Marshal.]] On the other hand, since this law appeared in print and when the foundings of this law are known to large commercial networks, but also to Polish retail networks, very often small domestic companies, there are no protests. Did you hear from the public after the bill and its assumptions of the trumpet at the Sejm? Because I didn't hear it. There is really full agreement and full consensus between Polish retail networks on the introduction of this tax in such a form, in a progressive form. It is agreed that the tax-free amount should be 17 million per month. It's a lot. Really little which store generates monthly revenues greater than PLN 17 million. Not much that a small Polish retail entrepreneur generates [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the kind of income. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u624	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u625	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I congratulate Mr Abramovich on his well-being, but unfortunately I have bad news for Mr Grabowski. Mr President, every tax is passed either forwards or backwards, there is no other option. And here, the appeals from this speaker to the Minister are no good. Minister! According to Art. Paragraph 7 (6) exempt from this tax will be goods disposed of in the context of the provision of catering services. So what's gonna happen to the takeout coffee? Is this a catering service or a retail sale? The recipe is imprecise. Please answer our questions about the European Commission's comments. What will you do if the Commission questions a free amount or a progressive rate? Will you give up the amount free and apply one rate to the entire market? Do you foresee the behaviour of Polish and foreign businesses in order to avoid this tax? Is the government going to fight cases? [[♪ The bell ♪]] minimizing the tax burden, will you be vulnerable as in the case of banking tax? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u626	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u627	The main concepts of the project are retail sales, consumer sales, retail sales. To define it, you need to know what business is. I'm asking how the Minister understands it. According to the Act on Freedom of Activity, or according to the Tax Order, or according to the Income Tax Act, or maybe according to a few others, because it can also be calculated? The second term is retail. This is understood by the natural person selling retail, but the explanatory memorandum states that this is the person registered in the CEiDG. There's nothing in the bill about it, but it's in the explanatory memorandum. Another concept. Paid disposal of goods is also the case where the disposal is accompanied by the provision of the service, but it follows from the justification that if the service provided [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be checked separately, then not. It's not from the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u628	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u629	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's a rule: you make money first, and then you seem. You guys put everything on your head right away, and you spent the money first, and now you're looking for it. You're looking, just not where you need to be, because you're looking in the pockets for those who are going to be buying in these big stores, because they're the ones where you're going to get the weight of these raises, and you're looking for entrepreneurs, because you just raised the minimum wage, the hourly rate. Entrepreneurs will pay for all of this. And now you're saying you're introducing a tax that pays big stores to make these little ones work better. From what I remember, what Prime Minister Morawiecki said, the principle is: micro-to become small, small medium, medium large and large largest. So what's the point of that? You've got to cut the head off of this biggest network that came out of these little neighborhood shops and became a network, you've got to take them down. A very good idea to implement the programme of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Congratulations on your time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u630	Thank you very much. Bravo! The question is asked by Mrs Anna Paluch, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u631	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All the cassandra visions that the representatives and the POs and the party that they call themselves modern will of course not come true. Nobody dangles on entrepreneurs, and the owners of big stores should pay taxes like small businesses. Maybe this will help Polish entrepreneurs to breathe at last. And your representative, the PO, who so praised the legislative solutions of her government here, will remind you that it was under your rule, dear Member, that 40 billion were leaked from CIT and 50 billion from VAT. [[Madame, don't lie to me, and don't tell me stupid things.]] Nevertheless, I have a question for the Minister: How does the Ministry want to counter the division of actors... [[You need to know what you're talking about.]] ...to the exhibitors referred to in Article. 8 Laws revenue less than PLN 17 million per month to avoid taxation and to avoid those limits which are set out in Article. The 9th Bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u632	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Kobyliński, a modern club. [[20 billion hasn't been found yet.]] [[If you were to rule well, you would not lose your power.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u633	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you if you are aware that the two largest German trade networks trading RTV and household appliances will not pay, and the Polish network, large and traditional, will pay this tax. [[There'll be any one.]] I would also like to ask, because it is a question of the fact that these disgusting Western networks, as you say, do not pay this tax, at all, for such a tax concept. Do you think it is worth introducing clear CIT rules, simple, transparent taxes, not adding another tax that will be very easy to bypass, making tax evasion clauses to slap an honest Polish entrepreneur right in the head, and still the budget hole is expanding? You've got 46 billion extra deficits and... God, it's beyond human understanding what you're doing, really. That's too bad for words. [[Applause]] [[54.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u634	The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u635	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I will answer Mrs Paluch: for now the announcements have been fulfilled, all the black clouds announced by the opposition have arrived. The bank tax is 1/3 less. We said he'd be celebrated and he wouldn't give up those billions. The agricultural system blocked our country's investment, as we also talked about during the work on the bill. So please have some respect, and I recommend you listen to the opposition. Now my question to the Minister. The law that we are debating today is quite different from the law that originally came out of the industry consultation. The question is: Why didn't you return to this consultation after such important changes? Do you allow public hearing in the case of this law? Are you sure... Today, the justification for the project assumes that this year there will be little more than 500 million PLN. If I know Poles, it will affect 1/3 less. Do you really want to make a fuss about what the whole Polish trade has been fighting about... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this Polish fight worth the money? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u636	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marek Owa, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u637	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the electoral campaign, Law and Justice announced the introduction of a large-scale shop tax, announced the sealing of the tax system so that the tax money would not flow to foreign countries. What does this tax have to do with your announcements? Nothing. [[It's not worth it.]] The name is different, everything is different. [[What do you mean, nothing?]] [[Please read it carefully, with understanding.]] Please don't disturb me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And here you are introducing something that will be a whip on Polish entrepreneurs who have been building commercial networks for 27 years to meet this competition. In the explanatory memorandum, Minister - and I do not know who wrote it - you write that this has no impact on the local government, and at the same time you assume deregulation, that 82 million is a loss in corporate tax for local government. Who's gonna reimburse us for the damage that's been brought in here? You say that the project is in line with European Union law, and when someone reads the letter of Minister Waszczykowski carefully, he will have no doubt, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think he's about to be questioned. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u638	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mrs Bernadette Krynick, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u639	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Any concern that the day of adoption of this law is to be the darkest day in the history of Polish trade is far exaggerated and it is simply scaring Poles. This will be the brightest day in the history of Polish trade. [[Jesus Christ.]] This law is a bow towards the Polish entrepreneur, it is beneficial for the Polish trade industry, it equals opportunities between traditional trade, small and medium-sized enterprises and networks of hypermarkets and discounts. It does not cover franchise links. The project meets all expectations in the opinion of entrepreneurs, employers and the social side. So what are the risks arising from this law for the Polish entrepreneur? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u640	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u641	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask, here this question has been raised many times: is this what Poles heard in the election campaign? [[Of course.]] Is that the declaration? It's a general tax, not the state's. you said, and it will touch Polish entrepreneurs. That's one thing. Secondly, it will be automatically transferred. Today, Polish suppliers who give goods to hypermarkets have such conversations, they already have this information: you pay for it, you lower quality - your choice. And late, it could affect the employees of other companies. Ladies and gentlemen, don't you expect the effect to be miserable anyway? I'm talking about the financial impact because you're looking forward to the financial impact. What will happen if the networks come up with such an idea - I say e.g. about the RTV network - that all purchases will be made online, they will be received e.g. At a point? Do you expect that's all? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What did you do? And that's how it's gonna turn out? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u642	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska from the Law and Justice Club asks a question. [[And where will they be registered? Not in the cash register, by any chance?]] [[It doesn't have to be in the register.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u643	Among the statements in which you make - as usual, when the Law and Justice have the courage to make decisions to correct what you have destroyed or what you have not done - these black scenarios are said: and Hungary has been punished by the European Commission and what the European Commission will say. Minister, is it true that Hungary has not withdrawn from this tax, but has reduced progress? [[Exactly!]] They only reduced the progression, but did not withdraw from this tax. Yes? Besides, large-area shops... And isn't that a big-store? A shop with a turnover of 17 or more than 17 million a month and more? So what contradiction do you see with the election promises here? [[It's going to be smaller CIT, smaller PIT.]] Here's another thing. Crocodiles shed tears over banks, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's about the bank tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u644	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u645	And the banks denied it, officially at the committee's meeting, they said it wasn't an event. And so is this... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u646	The questions are answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u647	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for all your questions, for your concern about the possibility of introducing this tax, for the restrictions resulting from this regulation for economic operators, especially in the retail sector. We listened attentively and with interest to all suggestions. There will be time to take a number of relevant opinions into account in the work of the Committee on Public Finance and in the subsequent part of the Parliament's debate, particularly those on definitions. On the other hand, if I may, I would like to make a very brief reference to those fundamental comments which have been addressed and repeated here. As far as the possibility of circumvention of purchased goods in retail sales by attempting to combine this with online sales is concerned, we believe that the network vendor must issue a receipt and will probably not be able to circumvent the entire invoicing process. As far as franchise is concerned, at the stage of the agreement, we have really excluded a number of inconveniences in defining the obligation to pay this tax. In practice, this proved complicated and difficult, and actually impossible to write down because of the number of relationships that occur in the trading and in this segment, due to the complications associated with, for example, the right to use a name or some advertising gadgets, because it would not be possible to give in a certain way the amount of the exemption of an entity which is in any way linked, even partial shares, very contractual and symbolic. As regards the fear of sharing, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of freedom in this regard, but under certain conditions. I mean, we already have it today - and we're going to apply it sooner than this bill that we're going to apply right now - the anti-law clause, and it gives us this weapon that if someone is going to divide the entity for aggressive tax optimization purposes, then we're going to be able to interfere. So be calm here. I don't want to refer to questions that say that there's actually nothing to do, that the state is helpless towards those who don't want to pay taxes, which is that as they avoided, we should let them continue to avoid the entire tax system... [[No, it's the other way around.]] ...and allow business activities to be carried out using all permitted and prohibited rules, but in such a way as not to pay any zloty tax to the budget of the Polish state. We do not accept this situation and we assume, however, that running a business must involve generating revenue, and if revenue is generated, we must pay public tribute. I would also like to say that the tax will apply equally to the sale of clothing and household appliances and food products. Here was a statement that had already been corrected by the next speaker. It seems to me that the entire speech was a little misguided due to the fact that 11 times the amount of free money was understated, and I think the whole argument was misguided. Well, more of the things that... [[What about the coffee, Minister?]] We assume, Madame, that where coffee is served, these revenues will be less than PLN 17 million per month and that there will be no problems with this coffee. That's the answer. There was also a question about the loss in the income of local government units. We assume that the 500+ programme and the next programmes that we will implement, and the declarations that have been carried out in line with our policy demands will increase the revenue from PIT and CIT, and this will be compensation for local authorities in this respect. [[500+ is not taxed.]] As for the concern that customers will get worse goods, please, we must remember that there may be such a mechanism that, however, customers will simply start buying in those stores that will not have to pay the tax. So we have a similar situation here as with the bank tax that the customers had a choice - if they thought that the bank in which they were being served was burdened with this tribute, they had the opportunity to use such a branch, such a bank, from such an entity that did not pay it. That's where we have the same situation. I don't think it's gonna be easy to pass this tribute on to customers. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this discussion will take place. She was pretty extensive at all. I will admit that we have fulfilled a number of demands in this final version of the project, after all, a much simplified, significantly limited also as regards the amount of this tax, those revenues planned in the Budget Act. We did this so that we could listen to the voice of the environment as much as possible, but we also want to implement our agendas with which we went to the elections, and we are bound by some honesty towards the voters. I believe that this is also a serious enough reason for us not to give up this tribute. As far as the European Commission is concerned, the Commission has so far failed to comment on the proposal. We are in contact, we will provide explanations and we are optimistic that, in this dialogue with the European Commission, our arguments will be recognised and that this tribute will be able to apply and feed the revenue of the state budget, and to give some of the money to implement the 500+ programme. I think that it is worth continuing to work on this project, and I assure you that we will also be open to possible amendments and clarification of some provisions that may be ambiguous. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u648	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A motion for rejection at first reading of the bill was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 22 June. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Are any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still going to turn themselves in? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. I encourage you, ladies and gentlemen, to make written statements. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club. Madame, I see, it's in writing. Madam, do you have a statement in writing? That's what I encourage you to do. [[It is imperative that you say so.]] I encourage you to submit. [[I have to tell you.]] Thank you very much. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] Is it really necessary?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u649	Yes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the occasion of Earth Day, actions are carried out annually in spring to promote environmental attitudes in society. Earth Day organizers want to make politicians and citizens aware of how fragile the human planet's ecosystem is. The celebration consists of many events organized by various institutions. As every year in May and June, the Special Schools in Łomża organized a cyclical environmental event called Earth Days. This time it was the fourth installment. Since 2012, the concept of the project has evolved several times, but the coordinators have always had two priorities: the promotion of nature conservation and the promotion of regional culture. The aim of the project is to bring students, parents and friends of the school of natural values and traditions of the region closer to the beauty of the Podlasie land and to the implementation of ecological behaviour. The permanent point in the Earth Days program is the collection of electro litter, natural workshops, day trips to the nearest places related to the environment, e.g. Lomżyńskie Landscape Park of the Narwi Valley, to the Museum of Nature in Drozdów, to the agrotourism complex Olszynk and Czarnocki Bud, natural lessons by experienced foresters from Nadrześnictwo Łomża, handicraft workshops and folk festival. The festival is a summary of the whole project and always takes place at the end of the project. The theme of the festival is the promotion of Kurpie culture and tradition. Students have the chance to get acquainted with the achievements of folk bands and artists who promote the folk art of the Polish village. On this day, the school hosts bands of singers and folk artists, who are close to returning to their roots and who would like to share their folklore skills. During the event, school space is transformed into an authentic folk scene for which groups and folk bands are invited. The whole school community is involved in their singing and music. Students will learn not only about the repertoire of folk songs, but also listen to the talks of Kurpie and the sketches. There is also an exhibition space that attracts the diversity and richness of artistic crafts, folk art products and other contemporary products inspired by folk art - these are embroidery, wood figurines, felt jewelry, sutaszowa, etc. This year, the school's stock coordinators planned a workshop space. Students from different levels of education were invited to participate in folk art workshops. It was, among other things. production of organic jewellery, clay products, wood products, earth gifts, so-called. carving with fruit and vegetables. Last year it was a workshop made of paper wicker, painting workshops on canvas, felting workshops. In addition, some young people took part in music workshops, where they had once again tried to learn folk dances. During each event, the smith's school from Zbilna, which shows the true work of the blacksmith, makes horseshoes, decorative elements for gates, devotion. Also, the school always hosts a lady who bakes tasty goats from yeast cake during the festival. All of these activities could not be carried out without cooperation with institutions friends with the school: Nadleśrzenia Łomża, Regional Centre for Culture, team of veterinary schools, Catholic gymnasium, Municipal Centre for Culture in Zbójna, school in Zbójna, association of Quźnia Kids, association Carpe Diem, DPS and workshops of Occupational Therapy in Łomża, and with local artists and folk bands - Team of Song and Dance Lomża, Kapela Kurpiowska, band of Maki, Girly Singing Team from Nowogrod, project Meandra, team of Maryna and team of Trio Kozaki. This year the folk festival in the Special Schools Complex in Łomża took place on 16 June. All those who were involved in the preparation and implementation of the festival, I warmly thank and greet them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u650	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stefan Romecki, I see, has a statement in writing. Perhaps you can submit to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u651	Yes, after the delivery. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to make a statement in the Seym of the Republic of Poland in connection with the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. These events are well known and widely discussed. All Members also took part in the National Assembly in Poznań called for this occasion. In my speech I would like to draw attention to the less famous circumstances of Poland's baptism, which are connected with Western Pomerania. Although baptism is mainly associated with Gniezno, Wielkopolska, it was conditioned by the situation in the West Pomerania and the Oder Pomerania. Historians see the beginning of the path to Christianization of Poland at the start of the Polish-Vielec fights, which took place about the Western Pomerania. Many were Slavic tribes living between the lower Oder and the Elbe. The fight began around 963, and the theatre of war was Lubuskie Land and Western Pomerania. Failures in this war forced the House, Prince Polan, to seek out allies. An ally found in the person of the Czech prince Bolesław, who sealed the Polish-Czech alliance with his sister Dobrawa and Mieszek. Since she was a Christian, Mieszko was baptized in 966, and the following year his son was born, who received the name Bolesław, and later got the nickname of Krzywousty and became famous as the Polish ruler who made the Christianization of Pomerania. High Izbo! As inhabitants of the Polish Western Pomerania we remember this heritage, which involves the baptism of Poland. Pope John Paul reminded us of him in 1991. II, who in Koszalin at the airport, at the beginning of the fourth apostolic journey to Poland, said that standing on this land, faced a significant part of our history, at the very beginning of the history (...) at the extension of the baptism which Poland adopted in 966. The Pope reminded us of the role of Kołobrzeg, who together with Krakow, Wrocław and Poznań formed the Gniezno metropolis, which became the foundation of the organization not only of the Church, but also of the Piast State. At that time, it was a condition for one's own statehood and belonging to the European family to have a permanent and independent ecclesiastical organization. It was created 34 years after the baptism, in 1000 years, during the Gniezno convention. It is worth recalling that the Czech Republic, which had previously entered the orbit of Christianity from Poland, had its own ecclesiastical organization, archbishopship in Prague, only in the 14th century. The Germans had not been able to accept the independence of the Polish metropolis in Gniezno for a long time, and it was only in 1136 that the Pope's final recognition of it. These historical events at the beginning of the Polish statehood the Pope called the foundation on which we should build a common Europe. Today I would like to quote in the Seym of the Republic of Poland the very important words of John Paul II in Koszalin: "Let this reminder from the distant past of nations in the centre of Europe become today a new wish and announcement of the European future at the threshold of the new millennium. May the spirit of Emperor Otto and King Boleslaw bound by the memory of Saint Wojciech by mutual brotherhood and respect return to our history as the cornerstone of peace and cooperation. High Izbo! Let us not forget this papal wish, but also the memento. Let us appreciate the Western Pomerania, let us be aware of its geopolitical significance, let us oppose the attempts of historical manipulation in the execution of foreign propaganda in Poland. Let us take care of the Western Pomerania, let us not push it to the economic and social periphery, but let us do everything to make it flourish, it is the pride of Poland. Remembrance historical experiences and the common past, let us build the foundations of European cooperation based on mutual brotherhood and respect. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u652	Thank you very much, sir. The statement is now made by Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u653	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Attribution and advantage of Richard Petru as a modern leader can be boldly combined with confidence and even with the employment of a mackerel trainer in the aquarium in Puck. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u654	Thank you very much. I would encourage Members to follow in brief statements. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please, Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, Club Law and Justice. Do you have an envoy written? How about protocol?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u655	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Reflection! Today's statement I would like to remind you of the forgotten strike in Namysłowskie Zakłady Elektrotechniky Motorizowej (ZEM). Until this year, none of the historical studies reported more widely about the strike that took place in 1976 at the ZEM, commonly referred to as "Powers." The memory of these events in a broader context was restored only this year by Dr. Mariusz Patelski. In 1975, the halls of the ZEM were in poor technical condition threatening construction disaster, and production stopped. In April 1976, on the so-called. 171 workers from 586 employed in total remained at the station. In addition, the situation was ignited by the price regulation announced in June 1976, which triggered a spontaneous outbreak of a strike in the mental institution. From 25 June to 10 p.m. 11 struck the entire first change of the ZEM, a total of 210 employees. The party officers tried to pacify the moods by organizing meetings in consultative groups, but the moods calmed down only after the Prime Minister spoke in the media. At the end of the strike, the party apparatus proceeded to clean up the ranks and determine the guilty. On the recommendation of KW PZPR, persons who refused to carry out certain activities were dismissed from the management positions of the PZPR, a list of employees who had taken the wrong attitude from 24 to 30 June 1976 was issued with an order to dismiss these workers. A total of 10 were dismissed, 12 were removed and moved to another job, one was terminated, 36 were reprimanded, and three were reprimanded. A total of 62 employees of the Zem Minds were punished, who took part in the June strike. The repressions of the communist apparatus illustrate the example of one of the displaced workers, the father of two young children who borrowed to renovate the house. After losing his job at the ZEM for many months because of the so-called. The wolf ticket couldn't find a job. Eventually, he became depressed and had to undergo psychiatric treatment. Here, in this Parliamentary Chamber, on the 40th anniversary of the strike in the Mental ZEM, I would like to pay tribute to the workers of this plant who stood up for dignity and workers' rights. Particular attention should be paid to the repressed, persecuted, vilified, and above all to their families. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u656	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Margaret Navel with a written statement? [[Yeah, I'm sorry.]] Is it really necessary?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u657	I suggest you save your time tomorrow. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With a request to appeal to the government and the Ministry of the Environment, I was approached by residents of the Żywiecki district, a representative of the groups of rural hostels. They demand intensive and comprehensive action to combat air pollution. In the mountains, in Beskidy the inhabitants of industrial cities of Poland have been coming for years. Even recently here they could hope to improve their health and well-being, here they built recreational houses and enjoyed the beauty of nature in the mountains. However, shocking information has been announced that Żywiec is the most polluted city in the European Union in terms of air quality. A dense smog has been observed throughout the Żywiecka Basin for several years. With regard to low emissions from kilns and local coal boilers and communication exhaust gases, their concentration is increasing. This makes the effects of such pollution increasingly felt. As in industrial cities, people are increasingly tired of breathing. Cough, shortness of breath, allergies, respiratory infections and conjunctivitis are increasing. Chemical compounds floating in the air from incinerated household waste, e.g. plastic packaging, PET packaging, increases the risk of morbidity and mortality. The air, essential to life, should be clean. If there's no radical change, the next generation will be even sicker. We pay an ever higher price for maintaining old furnaces and boiler rooms burning bad quality fuel: the cost of health and life. The inhabitants of the Żywiec region with low wages and high unemployment are most likely not to be able to afford to replace their long-term boilers. Tourists are starting to turn their backs on the Żywiecczyn tourist region, which has already benefited most from tourism. At this point, on behalf of the women of the Żywiecki district, I call for action to be taken to solve the problem by increasing the financial preferences for modern heating systems, solar systems, heat pumps and so-called. Blue fuel. Żywiecczyn expects comprehensive support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u658	Thank you very much, Member. Indeed, you have saved your fellow Member 2 minutes. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Club Law and Justice. In writing?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u659	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One definition of madness is: madness is going beyond average standards, customs. In this context, I would like to mention events only in recent days. Example No 1. Very experienced politician, the opposition for several years, says: Antoni Macierewicz is such a harmful minister that it is worth shooting at with a good aim and ammunition that will pierce the bulletproof vest. Example 2. An experienced communist politician, a long-standing member of a party with all the worst on its conscience, says: It is necessary to establish an alternative parliament, a Seym bis. The demonstration of the Defence Committee is not enough. Democracy doesn't like it, so what's he doing in the Senate? Example No 3. The opposition policy, the president of the big city, wants to destroy the boulder placed in memory of Lech Kaczyński. Monuments of enemies are being destroyed. He hates the former President of the Republic of Poland so much? Example 4. The opposition body, a newspaper that used to be an opinion-making entity, and today ends poorly, hating Minister Macierewicz, for example for carrying out the vetting or liquidation of the WSI, launches an absurd attack on him, and the opposition party takes up the subject and attacks the Minister of National Defence with the intention of removing it just before the NATO summit in Warsaw. Is this part of a sensible, pro-state political debate? Opportunity, what else are you going to do? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To draw the final conclusion, I will once again quote the definition of madness: this procedure goes beyond average standards and customs. Unfortunately, despite my best wishes, I would not be able to bring any of these examples of action outside the framework of this definition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u660	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Tomasz Kostus, the Civic Platform Club. [[Yes.]] Do you have a letter from the Member? Why don't we put it on the record? No? [[Can I read it?]] Please? No, of course. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u661	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Bleeding is one of the most beautiful social actions of instincts of selflessness, which is aimed at obtaining blood from healthy people for the benefit of those in need of blood or its components. The recipients are hospitals, clinics and institutes carrying out complex operations, transplants and other procedures for which blood is necessary. Each year, on June 14th, the World Blood Career Day established by the World Health Organization is celebrated on the anniversary of Karl Landsteiner, Austrian immunologist, Nobel laureate who discovered blood groups in 1901. At this point, I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the House to involve themselves and the people closest to you in promoting the idea of blood donation, all the more so as the beginning of the holiday period should be a reason for all of us to further mobilise. The annual summer months are those during which the amount of blood given significantly decreases. Regional blood donation and blood treatment centres increase promotional activities at this time and encourage special attention to this important problem. I would like to join these calls and encourage all of you to join this good initiative. At the same time, I call for all of us to supply ourselves with a blood type identification card, commonly referred to as a blood card. In the event of an accident, this small document allows you to determine the blood type of the injured paramedics and employees of the health care system in Poland. The blood-group identification card is a reliable document certifying the blood-type of the holder. Having a card reduces the waiting time for transfusions by about 30 minutes. It also avoids marking blood types during repeated visits to hospitals. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in Poland there is still a systemic solution regarding the development of plasma surpluses. Currently only about 30% collected plasma is used for clinical purposes. The rest is a surplus that is used to produce blood products. Poland as one of the few already large European countries has not yet had its own plasma processing plant for blood products. On this day, I would like to draw the attention of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health to take appropriate steps to organise in the country their own plasma processing plant for blood products. By taking this opportunity, I wish all blood donors and employees of regional blood donation and blood treatment centers to continue their determination and satisfaction in carrying out this wonderful gift of heart and every success. Let the feeling of unselfish help to those in need be a source of your satisfaction and joy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u662	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, will now make a statement. [[There's no Paul.]] Mr Jacek Kurzepa. If I know life, you're gonna give it to me, not file it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u663	Mr. Marshal! Fellow Members! High Izbo! People of Lubuskie Land! I address you with reflections from the last diocesan spiritual meeting that took place on 18 June this year. in Międzyrzecz, during which we celebrated the voivodship and diocesan celebrations on the occasion of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. The ceremony took place in the Sanctuary of the First Martyrs of Poland, a place that touches the beginning of faith in our nation, because in 1001 the eremites from Italy arrived in the vicinity of Międzyrzecz, St. Benedict of Benewent, St. John of Venice, St. Matthew and St. Isaac and his helper St. Kristine. They suffered a martyr's death in 1003. They were the first to suffer such a martyr's death for their faith on our earth, while St. Matthew, St. Isaac and St. Krystyn were the first canonized Poles. It is there, in Międzyrzecz, on the land of Lubuskie, under the leadership of the Metropolitan of Poznań archbishops. Stanisław Gądecki, with the participation of Bishop Stanisław Gądecki. The diocese of Zielona Górsko-Gorzowska Tadeusz Litynski, accompanied by bishops of the Szczecin-Kamien metropolis, the faithful to the diocese renewed the act of their baptism, also entrusted the diocese of the care of the Blessed Virgin Mary patiently listening to Rokitna. I would like to express this memory of great gratitude to the many gathered faithful to our diocese, who in such a deep way, with great concentration on prayer have experienced the Eucharist. They remained in close contact with the Lord God, but also the heritage of our ancestors, who, like the interreligious brothers, shaped our religiousness, statehood and culture. Perhaps in 2016, when we come to fett the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism, we do not fully understand the legacy of the centuries-old tradition of our nation and the Church associated with it, the deep faith and attitudes of our antennaes, on which we are today, who we are, and our Polish homeland is what it is. Thank you to the local authorities of the city of Międzyrzecz, thank you to the people of Międzyrzej, students of interreligious schools and their parents who have created a wonderful historical corrode. But let me mention in particular the two young priests, the moderators of this event, Fr. Thomas Gierasimchuk and Fr. Mariusz Dudce. I looked at them and the way they watched over the celebration. They did so discreetly, competently, with great maestria, so as not to frighten the focus of the spirit, the compaction of the prayer that was done. And maybe two pictures. At one point from the altar on the high stairs descends Fr. Bishop Senior Adam Dyczkowski. During this time, the young priest, seeing the possibility of stepping on the casket, raises its edge and thus safely brings the bishop to a certain ground. A beautiful, unpretentious gesture, a gesture of sonly concern, but also a generational respect towards the giants of the spirit and our spiritual guides. Another episode this time concerns Fr. Tomasz, who in an elegant and very communicative way led the narrative of the experience. He did so discreetly and subtly, he modulated the voice, staying in the shadows. This does not only prove the modesty of Fr. Tomasz, but awareness of the place in the narrative of the history of each of us today, those of the consecrated and lay people. Finally, I share with you the question of what will remain after us, in the sense of the testimony of our faith, its integrity and power. And I do not only think about it in the context of the community of the nation, but also in the context of my individual testimony. Perhaps in 100, 200 or 1000 years other Poles will follow our footsteps. It is perhaps necessary to leave them clearer, clearer, stronger, so that they become the foundations on which to continue to stick and continue our Church and our homeland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u664	Thank you very much, sir. The last statement is made by Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u665	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last weekend I had the privilege of visiting my friends from Skrzeszow at the general meeting of members. There was a symbolic transfer of responsibilities and cares for the entire inventory by the President of the Mill, a longtime and very well-deserved friend, in the hands of his educator, Tomasz Bandur's friend. I would like to mention these phenomenal people, because their attitude may be and is a model for volunteers' friends all over Poland. All of this based on full trust and cooperation between older and younger people according to the principle: consent builds. I thank the former president for showing what it means to be able to walk away with dignity and remain respected by opening up to the young generation. I wish to the new president that he would continue to represent the volunteers of his community so proudly. I know that there are thousands of such volunteers in Poland, so we should think about how we can thank people who are at risk of health and life 24 hours a day to help us on behalf of the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u666	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u667	A statement by the Members on the 75th anniversary of the death of Ignacy Jan Paderewski. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 29 June we will celebrate the 75th anniversary of the death of Ignacy Jan Paderewski - composer, pianist, musician, statesman. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to say a few words about the life of this Polish virtuoso and politics. Ignacy Jan Paderewski was born on 18 November 1860 in Kurylówka, Podol, in the Russian partition at that time. He had already demonstrated his musical abilities as a little boy. Between 1872 and 1878 he was educated at the Warsaw Music Institute, where he studied piano. After graduating, he became a teacher. He maintained himself by giving lessons of the game, impressive and performing his own songs, as well as playing at various celebrations. He constantly perfected his workshop. To this end, in 1881, after the death of Antonina Korsakovna, who had been married a year earlier, left for Berlin. Thanks to financial support from Helena Modrzejewska, a Polish actress fascinated by Paderewski's talent, the artist could continue his studies in Vienna and then take up the work of a piano teacher in Strasbourg. The composer's first success was his piano debut in 1887. A year later, his first big concert took place in Paris. The following years are performances in London, among others. before Queen Victoria herself, as well as the great tour of the United States. Paderewski decided to live in the United States while gaining great popularity across the ocean. He was called there, among others. Master and king of pianists. To this day, his only stage work of Manru remains the only opera composed by the Pole, which was staged at the American Metropolitan Opera. In 1899. Paderewski married Helena Maria Górska from Rosen's house. Young spouses bought a manor house in Kąśna Dolna near Tarnow, but settled in Switzerland, near Lausanne. The life of Ignacy Jan Paderewski is not only music, but also politics. He took up his diplomatic activity after the outbreak of World War I. He was then raising funds to help the victims of the war, and together with Henryk Sienkiewicz he founded in 1915. The Swiss General Committee for the Assistance of War Victims in Poland. He continued his work in the United States, where he continued to work in the United States. He gave a memorial about Poland to President Wilson. In 1917. Paderewski became a representative of the US National Committee of Poland. After returning to Poland, he took up the role of mediator between Dmowski and Piłsudski camps. As he said: "Stronage should be one: Poland, and this one I will serve to the death." In 1919. Paderewski became Prime Minister. As a representative delegate, he represented Poland at a peace conference in Paris concluded with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles. After Piłsudski's death in 1935. Paderewski co-created the so-called. Front Morges. After the outbreak of World War II, Paderewski became part of the Polish authorities in exile. He became President of the National Council of the Republic of Poland in London. He was active in Poland also in the USA. His name was placed by the Nazis on the list of enemies of the Third Reich in the so-called. The Black Book. Paderewski died of pneumonia on 29 June 1941. He was originally buried in the National Cemetery near Washington. However, on June 29, 1992, a coffin with its ashes was brought to Poland, where it rested in the crypt of the archicathedral of St. Jana in Warsaw. He was posthumously decorated with the Order of Virtuti Militari. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u668	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On June 20, over a hundred countries in the world celebrated an annual festival called International Refugee Day. It was established on 4 December 2000 by the UN General Assembly. This choice was not accidental, as African Refugee Day was celebrated on June 20, 1969. Thus, the choice of June 20 was to be a commemoration and a reference to this event. Let me remind you that a refugee is considered to be a person forced to leave his homeland because of the threat of freedom, health and even life. Armed conflicts and persecutions for religious, political, social, or skin color are the main causes of such threats. The aim of the International Refugee Day was to highlight the courage, strength and perseverance of refugees around the world. The celebrations of that day would give rise to reflection on the difficult position of those leaving their country of origin often in fear, fear, and uncertainty about the fate of the future. Its aim was also to remind you of the fundamental protection of rights, as well as to help find a safe place in another country. It is worth noting, however, that this holiday also forces other reflections, namely to reflect on the location of those countries to which refugees are coming. The current influx of refugees into Europe is massive. This is the largest wave of this kind since World War II. For this reason, there are many doubts and concerns about the arrival of an increasing number of people from the Middle East to European countries. Statistics on refugees in Europe indicate, among other things, that around 900 000 entered Europe through the Mediterranean Sea in 2015. people, that is almost four times more than in 2014. These figures show the scale of the problem Europe must face, including Poland. Finally, the only question remains: Is Poland often called, among others. must the European Union accept such a solution for the reception of refugees? It is worth considering the consequences of receiving them into our homeland in the face of the International Day of Refugees. Are we aware of the gap between us, Poles and refugees coming from the Middle East? Do we see how much we share in cultural, religious, social matters? Are we aware of potential national conflicts, or are we aware of an increase in the potential epidemiological risk? The government of the Republic of Poland should take first into account the welfare of the Polish society and protect the safety of its citizens. Therefore, before making further decisions on these issues, let us consider the consequences for us and for future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u669	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Teachers, Educators and Educators! Another school year will be over in a few days. It was a time for a special state of dedication and work to give proper knowledge and skills to children and young people entrusted by parents and carers. The graduation of the school year is also the time to express great gratitude and thank you for the work of the teacher, educator and educator. Thank you for your commitment and concern for the young generation of Poles. Teachers, educators, carers, teachers as well as all non-pedagogical workers, I wish you a well-deserved rest so that during your holidays you will miss your children and young people again, and on September 1st you will be happy to return to your educational duties and duties. Children and young people wish Have a great vacation. Let them be joyful and safe so that you can continue your education happily and fully.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-22-sejm-21-2.u670	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 23 June this year, at 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 33]]
