ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, after the conversation has been silenced. I open the eighth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Jerzy Wcisla. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 6 January 2016, Zbigniew Zichowicz, Senator IV and V of his term of office died. He worked, among others. in the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of Senator Zbigniew Zichowicz. [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the third meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fourth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider point one of the draft agenda, although the report of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the candidates for the members of the Monetary Policy Council was submitted at a later date than specified in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the eighth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. We proceed with the first item on the agenda: the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council. High Izbo, the term of office of three members of the Monetary Policy Council appointed by the Senate expires on 24 January 2016. According to the Constitution and the Act on the National Bank of Poland, the Senate appoints three members of the board from among financial specialists for 6 years. I inform you that the following candidates have been submitted: Mr Marek Chrzanowski, Mr Marek Dąbrowski, Mr Eugeniusz Gatnar and Mr Jerzy Janusz Kropiwnicki. The CVs of the candidates are included in print No 61. The examination procedure set out in the Act on the protection of classified information has been completed in respect of the submitted candidates. The proposals concerning the applications submitted to the Senate Marshals were addressed to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The committee's report is in print No 61 O. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to speak and to present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission at its meeting on 12 January, in accordance with Article. Article 94 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, held a hearing of the candidates for the members of the Monetary Policy Council. All candidates have been submitted correctly. There were more than 7 senators signed under the applications. During the meeting, the Commission asked a lot of questions, as well as the representatives of social organisations present at the meeting. After an excellent discussion, I must say that the committee was very impressed by the competences of all the candidates for these positions. The committee approved all candidates for the Monetary Policy Council and presented the list to the High Senate: Dr Marek Chrzanowski, Dr Marek Dąbrowski, Professor Eugeniusz Gatnar, Dr Jerzy Janusz Kropiwnicki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Senator, Mr President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask that question to the senator? Before adopting a resolution on the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council, the Senate may call on candidates to provide explanations and answer the senators' questions. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. Mark Chrzanowski a question? Is he present? Welcome, Doctor. Do any of you senators want to ask Mr. Mark Chrzanowski a question? I don't see any calls. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. Mark Dąbrowski a question? Senator Klich, you're welcome. [[I have two brief questions for your docent.]] You're welcome. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I ask you, sir, to approach the speaker in order to answer these questions. Please. Wait a minute. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u4	First of all, I have a formal question. The moment we applied for you, you didn't have the approval of the faculty board for your habilitation yet. I've heard that acceptance has taken place. I'd like to get confirmation from you on this case so that the whole room knows about it. Secondly, I would like to ask your brief opinion on how the Monetary Policy Council should work, how it should be independent from the executive bodies of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u5	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you about the bank tax issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u7	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for your docent? Senator Stanisławek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u8	I would like to ask, out of curiosity, what was the subject of your habilitation work or the book on which you received the habilitation if you were in the middle of a habilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u9	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: I'm still...]] That's in the next round because three senators have already asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the senators for the questions. Let me combine the third question with the first question, because they concern the same matter. On 14 December last year, the Council of the Faculty of Economics and International Relations of my home university, the University of Economics in Cracow, gave me the degree of doctor in economic sciences. As for habilitation work, according to the Law on Scientific Degrees, the degree of doctor of habilitation is awarded as the main scientific achievement, although of course many other criteria, such as organizational work, teaching, are also taken into account. Maybe I won't go into the details. There is an appropriate regulation in this regard, perhaps the Minister for Science and Higher Education. The main scientific achievement is not merely a monograph or a book. This may be a cycle of thematically related publications. Therefore, we have the possibility, as in any discipline, to either prepare a monograph or just a cycle of such publications. In my case, this cycle was created and concerned the theme of foreign exchange reserves as an instrument to prevent and mitigate financial crises. This publication cycle consisted of 4 articles published in national journals such as the Economics and the National Economy, 3 chapters in the books that we prepared together in Kater Makroeconomy, i.e. Everyone was preparing a separate chapter... I'm sorry to be so detailed, but that was the question. Let me get this straight. So as a major scientific achievement, I presented these 4 articles, 3 chapters of these books plus 2 articles published in international magazines on the so-called. Philadelphia leaves or Journal Citation Report. One of these articles was written as part of co-authoring with a colleague and a colleague from the cathedral of statistics, and the other article was written by myself. If there are further questions on this issue, I would be happy to answer them. May I add that the Habilitation Committee, which is set up by the Central Commission for Degrees and Titles, does not examine only the book or the publication cycle, but the entire scientific, teaching and organizational work of each candidate. The second question is how the Monetary Policy Council should work. This question is quite broad and actually entering the sphere of normative issues. For a long time we have known that it is good to separate monetary policy from budgetary policy, to separate each type of macroeconomic policy, because it consists of macroeconomic policy, from another entity. In the case of monetary policy, there are many works that show that a central bank or otherwise: an entity that conducts monetary policy and is subjected to strong political pressure is characterised by an inflation curve, i.e. a sub-optimal monetary policy. For this reason, Many central banks around the world and, above all, many legislators have come to the conclusion that it is appropriate to make the central bank independent of political pressure. Therefore, not only in the euro area is the central bank independent, but it is independent also in countries such as Sweden and New Zealand, i.e. in countries that we can actually treat as model monetary policy. I therefore believe that the Monetary Policy Council should have independence in monetary policy. I don't want to talk about any other solutions here, e.g. the introduction of rigid rules on monetary policy or the conservative central banker model. These are well-known issues in the economic environment, economists, but they all show some competence: monetary policy should be conducted independently and should be focused primarily on maintaining a stable price level. And that's what we have in our constitution in the article. 227. This entry is also confirmed in the Act on the National Bank of Poland in art. 3. In order to clarify, however, it is necessary to say that the central bank, and in particular the Monetary Policy Council, which is the central bank's body, should not... or rather should not concentrate, and absolutely not focus in Poland, solely on the inflation objective. Because from the legal point of view, it's in the article. The 3th Act on the National Bank of Poland explicitly states that the central bank should support the economic policy of the government, although it is stipulated that, unless this limits the achievement of the basic objective of maintaining a stable level of prices. The Monetary Policy Council, which ends its term of office, has repeatedly indicated in its communications that it also takes into account the state of the economy, current and expected economic growth. It is not that it only looks at the inflation target and acts automatically. The direct inflation target strategy has the advantage of collecting as much relevant information as possible from the point of view of price stability and taking it into account in its analysis in the decision-making process. Here, too, it is kind of clear that the Monetary Policy Council is not at all on hand, for example. the economy was developing too slowly. If the Monetary Policy Council, let's say, would have an overly restrictive monetary policy, it would have pushed the economy into deflation, i.e. it would have acted against its statutory and constitutional mandate. Of course, a question about the current situation can be asked immediately, because in Poland since July 2004 we still have deflation. For December, the price level index, its change, was -0.5%. When it comes to the current situation, so that it can also give a little advance on possible additional questions, the council explains, clearly explains and shows that such an effect is given by low commodity prices, low energy prices and low food prices. Here, the dynamics are low. Nevertheless, remember that deflation is not bad in itself. Economists distinguish between good deflation, i.e. one that reduces costs and thus allows the economy to grow faster, and negative deflation, which creates expectations for price reductions and inhibits consumption. When the central bank, the council, in fact, presented it to President Marek Belka at the conference on 15 December 2015, she presented her achievements during the passing term, clearly indicated that there was no deflation expectations in Poland, because only a few percent of respondents, 2% , maybe 3%, replied that he was expecting a fall in the price level. The vast majority considered that prices would remain unchanged. There was a question about the bank tax. The bank tax is, as far as I know, a fact that has been introduced. If I can comment on that, all I can say is that the bank tax is a sectoral tax. Sectoral taxes, in my opinion, should be introduced in order to achieve a specific objective, e.g. eliminate any adverse behaviour of banks for the economy. Is that so? I'm having some doubts here, and I'm saying it openly. However, it seems to me that the introduction of banking tax is justified by fiscal considerations. So on this point I agree with Professor Stanisław Gomulka. As for the amount of this tax... Well, when you build a tax like that, you have to look at the financial results of the banking sector. Yes, in Poland it is a few or several billion, perhaps 14 or 15 billion, but please remember, looking at this tax, because it is the most important here that this tax is not actually paid on profit, on the financial result, only on assets, regardless of the results achieved by the bank. Banks can be in different situations, they can carry out different restructuring processes, and for some it can be difficult to achieve a profit over a certain period of time, temporarily. And in this respect, asset tax is, in my opinion, quite dangerous. But the main reservation I have here is: we can tax banks, but let it be a actually justified tax, e.g. that the banking sector generates some instability for the economy. And then it would be okay. But in this case, I don't believe that's what's happening. Thank you for listening to the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u11	Thank you very much. There are more questions, Mr. Docent. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u12	Mr. Candidate to the Monetary Policy Council, it is clear that the government's programme is ambitious in terms of social expenditure, which is not always connected with the economy. My question is this: how will you reconcile, in the course of possible work on the Monetary Policy Council, the inflation targets, i.e. the protection of the zloty, with these money-bearing expenses? And two: do you even see the possibility of them being realized? [[Member of the Monetary Policy Council Marek Dąbrowski: Excuse me, may I ask you to repeat the second question?]] That was the first... [[The other one's gonna be here.]] The second will be, as you can see... What is your attitude towards Poland's achievement, so to speak, of identity with the Lisbon Treaty as regards the introduction of the euro in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Doctor, the first question in part relates to Senator Rulewski's second question, namely Poland's achievement of the conditions for accession to the euro. A great deal of time was spent on this subject at the committee meeting yesterday. If I could, I would ask for your view of Poland's accession to the euro area. And second question. It's what I asked Professor Kropiwnicki, but yesterday at the committee meeting I didn't have time to ask you. Is the Polish zloty properly, so to speak, secured, or do we have sufficient instruments to protect against speculative activities, in your opinion, of course?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u16	Thank you very much. I have the following question: what is your attitude towards the monetary policy of the central bank? And should the central bank, in your opinion, be more active in stimulating the development of the national economy or not? What's your opinion on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u17	Thank you. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u18	The first question concerns the inflationary objective on the one hand and the government's hard-earned expenditure on the other. Of course, the relationship between monetary policy and budgetary policy is extremely important. Both policies affect the economy. The central bank and the Monetary Policy Council must take into account the budgetary policy that is being pursued. Why? Because the Monetary Policy Council and the central bank are to ensure the stable value of Polish money, and they can do so in principle, in my view, by using one basic instrument, the interest rate, the reference rate, the central bank, by changing the interest rate, influences primarily the demand in the economy. The central bank is not in a position to stimulate the supply side of the economy. And if the government is leading, let's give it, a highly expansive budgetary policy that makes demand, then this kind of action will be found sooner or later. And it's usually that quicker. It is reflected in higher inflation. Therefore, a sensible, prudent Monetary Policy Council, seeing a highly expansive budgetary policy, will have a tendency, and in my opinion it should tend to increase interest rates rather than to lower them. Regarding the issue of the euro in Poland or Poland's accession to the euro area... Well, indeed, this topic was quite widely discussed yesterday at the Senate committee meeting. I have expressed the view that, whether we want to or do not want to join the euro area, we should complete the indicators set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is not only to the extent provided for in the Treaty provisions, but even to a greater extent. In particular, I am referring to the provision in the Treaty that the deficit of the public finance sector, not just the central budget, should not exceed 3%. GDP. In my opinion, such an objective is unambitious. It is not ambitious when the economy is growing faster when it is in a rapid economic growth phase. This is the time to build ourselves a space of manoeuvre for worse times. At a time when the economy is speeding up, we should rather have a less expansive budget policy, because the economy is doing well on its own. The same is true of public debt. Public debt... thresholds written either in the Public Finance Act or in the Constitution, these are thresholds that we must not exceed. But we should be more ambitious. If the economy is growing faster, we should strive to reduce debt to gross domestic product, to our payment possibilities. The debt doesn't have to go down in itself. It's not like we always have to have or should we have a surplus in public finances. No, we may have a deficit. But it should be small enough for the government debt-to-gross domestic product to gradually decrease. I would be much calmer about the future of the Polish economy if we had a debt of 35%. Because then in the event of a sudden disturbance, a financial crisis, we'd have room for manoeuvre. Then you will need to ensure macroeconomic and financial stability for the economy as a whole. I didn't say that yesterday, but here... There have been many questions, but I think that this should still be the case, because the questions that I say are moving towards whether we should be in the euro area or not. I think so. We should be in the euro area. But first, we must meet the conditions that are enshrined in the Treaty and give ourselves time to make our economy cool. So that we can be sure that we are actually fulfilling these Treaty conditions. This isn't a two or three-year perspective. In my opinion, this is a perspective of at least 5, if not 10 years. I should also add that I agree with Professor Gomulka, who formulated such a thesis that, for the time being, the discussion of joining the euro area is probably premature. We all know that in order to make sense of this strategy, we would first have to agree on the changes to the Constitution. And this is, I think, quite difficult, of course, from a political point of view. Is Poland well protected from speculation? I don't think any economy is well protected from speculation. It may seem to us that we have good solutions, for example. large foreign exchange reserves, up to $100 billion, that we have a stable macroeconomic situation... Because it is, isn't it? The Polish economy is not in bad shape. He's in good shape. But notice that the world is very dynamic and what is happening in some emerging economies, as well as in economically advanced countries, affects the situation of economies such as Poland, Slovakia and Hungary. There is no such retail analysis among investors operating in international financial markets that Poland is a guaranteeing country, let us give a stable rate of return on the investments undertaken. No. They think in terms of regions and their investment portfolios. So, in my opinion, what we can do is to conduct the best monetary and budgetary policy, to strengthen it even further. Although financial sector supervisors, I think of the committee here, they are well prepared and do their job well supervision of the financial sector. So our job is to do the best possible economic policy. Of course, I also think that we should maintain high foreign exchange reserves, because they may be useful, not to stop a speculative attack, but to reduce the volatility of the exchange rate slightly. As the National Bank of Poland did in 2013 or 2011, I do not remember at this point exactly by intervening, but not to defend a specific level of exchange rate, just to reduce currency volatility. And from the economic point of view of the economy and exporters, what is really important is that the exchange rate is stable. Because I believe in the possibility of adapting Polish exporters. This is clearly seen if you look at the central bank reports and analyze the rate of profitability of exports, which is calculated on the basis of the replies given by exporters. This rate is well below PLN 4.20 or even PLN 4 per euro. He also has such a tendency that he adapts to what is happening with the current course. So I believe that the exporters' stability of the exchange rate would be very useful. And one more question, equally interesting, because it is about stimulating economic growth through monetary policy. That question basically came up at the committee meeting yesterday. Senator Bierecki asked, recalling the opinion of President Marek Belka, whether it is possible to permanently stimulate economic growth through monetary policy. I repeat the view I expressed at the time. I fully agree with what Professor Marek Belka said. So it's not possible. There is no sustainable potential to stimulate economic growth in monetary policy regardless of how we look at it. The intuition is simple: you can't lower the interest rate and then someone can say that there are still unconventional actions By simply pushing money into the economy, i.e. by printing banknotes, by issuing money, by stimulating economic growth. It doesn't work intuitively. True, Milton Friedman had to be explained in detail in the 1960's, but the answer is clear: not this way. This is not a way to stimulate economic growth. Empirical studies also show that the higher inflation is, the weaker economic growth is. I'll add I also mentioned this yesterday that the relationship between economic growth and inflation is no longer statistically relevant when inflation is already at low levels. So, in other words, from the point of view of economic growth, it doesn't really matter whether inflation is, let's say, 7%. , or 2%. In this case, this relationship doesn't matter. However, it is important whether it is 20% or, say, 3%; the higher inflation is, the weaker is long-term economic growth. However, I go back to what I said in the first round of questions: the central bank must also look at the so-called. the demand gap, i.e. the deviation of the gross domestic product, the actual one, so what is actually happening in the economy, from the potential product. If we have a negative gap, that is, the economy is developing slower than its potential, it is a signal to the Monetary Policy Council to lower the interest rate to lead a more expansive monetary policy, but only temporarily, until the demand gap closes. So this is just a short-term stimulus, and it can also be argued to avoid deflation, because maintaining a deeper negative GDP gap may have a negative impact on prices. Thank you for these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u19	Thank you very much. Now you're gonna ask Senator Waldemar Bonkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u20	Mr. Candidate, I have this request: could you express your view, do you believe that the euro area will continue, and if so, how long? And is it entitled to believe that the euro area will continue for as long as Germany pays off? It's still paying off for now, but once it stops paying off, the euro zone will end. Do you believe that the eurozone will survive?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u21	Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Doctor, I have a question: could the Monetary Policy Council help the French? Do you have a personal proposal on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u23	Thank you. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u24	Do I believe in maintaining the euro area? This question was also raised yesterday at the committee meeting, and we were all in fact agreed that the euro area would survive, that it was so stable that it would survive despite certain shortcomings. If you look at history, you can see that the unification of Germany, which took place in 1990, was possible, among others. because Germany agreed to deepen integration processes in Europe. So one wonders whether it was for the Germans, whether they wanted to replace their currency, which was, after all, extremely stable, a number of countries kept foreign exchange reserves in the brand, so that the benefits of it flowed to the Bundesbank, and consequently to the German budget. The Germans were sure that the introduction of the euro was in hand. Let us also see that German society was not satisfied at all after the introduction of the euro. It's been said that prices have increased. However, regardless of the reality, prices have increased in the social sense. So I would be careful when it comes to making such a claim that the euro was in Germany's hands, so the euro area was created and lasts only because it is in Germany's hands. Professor Hans-Werner Sinn, perhaps one of the most outstanding German economists, speaks directly in an interview recently given to the Rzeczpospolita: the weak euro is not at all at the hands of the Germans. Ladies and gentlemen, if the currency of a given country is weakening, and this is what we are experiencing now, because the gold is weakening, it is causing problems, in our case maybe a little bit different, I will talk about it in a moment, because there was a question about the course of the franc. It gives rise to such a loss that we can buy less foreign goods for the goods we export. Does it make sense to pay more in exchange for less? I don't think so. So here I agree with Professor Sinn, who believes that the weak euro does not serve Germany at all. Ladies and gentlemen, the euro itself did not just appear in 1999 or, in this tangible form, in 2001. It was the whole process extended over time. Monetary integration ideas have already emerged in the early 1970's. They failed because of the oil crisis, the problems in the world economy back then, and then the Bretton Woods system fell apart. But European countries immediately constructed their own solution, their own mechanism, so-called. currency snake mechanism. Right? He initially moved in this modified band provided for by the Bretton Woods Agreement, which was amended in December 1971 and then was, you can say, the only solution in Europe and was no longer protected by any international solutions. In 1979, the European Monetary System was set up, the euro is the next stage. As part of the European Monetary System, exchange rates were constant, stable, of course it was possible to adjust exchange rates periodically and it happened that e.g. Italian lir was devalued and German brand Reinforced. So it is not that this euro appeared suddenly and it appeared at the request of the Germans. I would be careful to formulate such a view, rather ask historians what they think. So that I believe in maintaining the euro area, I will add even more: I believe that it is necessary to build or complete the construction of a banking union, to think about strengthening the supervision of budgetary policies in the countries of the Economic and Monetary Union, so that this euro area can act. Listen also to the voices raised by entrepreneurs who trade with Europe, and yet our 80% trade goes to other countries of the European Union, perhaps even more than 80% : For them, course stability is extremely important and beneficial. How and if at all The Monetary Policy Council can help those in debt in Swiss franc who have taken up such loans? Yesterday, there was a question about the challenges facing the next Monetary Policy Council, at least that's how I answered that question. I said at the time that one of the most important tasks of the future Monetary Policy Council is to find the optimal path to the interest rate. The point is that, on the one hand, there were questions about stimulating economic growth, i.e. whether the Council should lower interest rates, but, on the other hand, lowering interest rates will contribute to further weakening the gold, and further weakening the gold is not in the hands of persons, entities in debt in foreign currencies. The debt burden of such people is increasing, it can be said that this is perhaps one of the greatest ailments in terms of people who have been in debt in francs. If the course was then, I don't know, 2.5 zł, and now it's over 4 zł per franc I didn't check it today. Well, this commitment is growing enormously, even though someone may have been paying off the loan for a few years. Not only can the Monetary Policy Council, I believe, but it should take into account the impact that these decisions will have on people in debt in francs when making their decisions, especially those aimed at reducing interest rates, because it will be... and in any case it could generate instability in the financial system. One of the tasks of the National Bank of Poland is to ensure stability... [[There's a person with a camera entering the courtroom.]] [[Excuse me. Where are you guys going in? Do you have permission to enter the O.R.? I'm sorry, but no one gave you that permission. Excuse me. There you go.]] I'm going back to what I was talking about. The Council should also take care of the stability of the financial system, because it is even directly enshrined in the Act on the National Bank of Poland. This is one of the tasks of the National Bank of Poland, although it is not directly assigned to the Monetary Policy Council. Thank you so much for the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u25	Thank you very much. Senator Czesław Ryszka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u26	Thank you very much. I have an extra question. When the French loan was, so to speak, at the summit, did the Monetary Policy Council have the right to interfere, warn? Is it so that it should be in the rules of the Monetary Policy Council included in the observation of the credit market and possibly some attempt... to influence it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u27	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u28	This is probably about the 2007-2008 period, when the gold was greatly strengthened against all currencies, not only against the Swiss franc, but also against the euro or the dollar. What can the Monetary Policy Council do? Surely there is no mandate to make messages to borrowers. Here the competent authority is the Financial Supervision Commission. But luckily we have since October 2015... an appropriate law on macro-prudential supervision of the financial sector has been passed and we have a Financial Stability Committee. This Financial Stability Committee consists of the President of the National Bank of Poland, the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, also the Minister of Finance and the President of the Management Board of the Banking Guarantee Fund. In my opinion, this is the right body that can formulate such opinions, and in any case it should address this issue as much as possible. And here it is important to communicate between the President of the NBP and the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. But the Monetary Policy Council does not have such a mandate as it should take into account otherwise, the purpose of its action is different.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u29	Thank you very much. Are they still willing to speak? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Doctor. [[Member of the Monetary Policy Council Marek Dąbrowski: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr Eugenius Gatnar a question? Yes. I ask you to approach the podium. Senator Kleina is asking a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u30	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Professor, you were also a member of the Board of the National Bank of Poland until the last days. Yesterday we had the opportunity to talk to you and ask you very detailed questions and, of course, get many good, interesting answers. I'd like to ask you about your evaluation. Has the National Bank of Poland... has the Monetary Policy Council been fulfilling its tasks so far, or was it an institution that could distance itself from all kinds of political expectations or ad hoc financial and economic policies? So to what extent, in your opinion, did the Board and the Monetary Policy Council really pursue their basic, statutory and constitutional objectives? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u31	Thank you very much. Do any of you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators want to ask the professor a question? You're welcome. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u32	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns... I'm a longtime entrepreneur. All entrepreneurs who are involved in export, however, have been expecting for years, Professor, that money should be stable Read more: Euros, because exchange rate fluctuations often cause entrepreneurs to face huge problems regarding the economic stability of their individual companies. My question is this: do you, going to this fine body, have an idea for stability, of course, in the case of the euro?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u33	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you so much for inviting me and for these questions. That first question is very interesting. My six-year term on the board has actually come to an end. You could say that I was on the board as long as the current council, which is slowly ending its business. It really allowed me to watch her work. I have participated in her deliberations many times, of course, in the discussion part, not the decision-making part, and I must say that I really appreciate her activities. It leaves us an interest rate at a historically low level of 1,05%. And this is a really existing instrument, unlike countries where it is 0.05%. And there's actually nothing left to do with her. We have an instrument that we can use, we can pick it up or we can lower it. Therefore, it can be said that we can use this instrument to assess the economic situation in line with the situation. I also take a very positive view of the management's activities. Those were restless, post-crisis times. The Council started working and I started working on the board in 2010, at a time when global economies, including the Polish economy, came out of the crisis. I think we've had a good time. As for the targets, because the senator was asking about the targets... As I understand it, it's about the purpose of the council's work. It seems to me, as I said, that this level of interest rate is simply good for the Polish economy. It can be said that the set of instruments we have at our disposal as part of the Board's activities is appropriate to the challenges. If necessary, we have a whole range of monetary policy instruments to use. Now for the next question, about the expectations of course stability. As far as course fluctuations are concerned, this is, unfortunately, a global problem. The High House knows that the so-called. monetary war. Each country is trying to weaken its currency to be competitive; it is striving to achieve this simplest competitiveness, cost, price. Let's see what China does. China, every time the Yuan course is too high, they simply devalue it; they are very violent in this currency war. Other economies do the same. Well, quantitative relaxation, this unconventional monetary policy instrument, also every time it weakens the currency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u35	Thank you very much. There are some questions. Senator Ryszka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Professor, I have a question. Last December, the central bank of the United States raised interest rates. It is believed that this could lead to a drain of investment capital from Poland. How should the Monetary Policy Council react when observing what is happening now?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u37	Thank you very much. Senator Adam Gawada, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u38	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Candidate, I have a question about how you feel about referral. In part, you have already answered this question, but I would like to extend this issue a little bit more money to the market, using the instruments available to the Monetary Policy Council. What do you think is the barrier to moving from current deflation to stable inflation? Assuming you can even talk about it like that. And finally, how do you propose to combine the principles of fixing the interest rates of the National Bank of Poland with economic growth, which the Council also influences? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u39	Thank you very much. And Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Professor, I have two questions. First question. You spoke about the loosening of monetary policy, which is like the United States or the euro area, and thus, I understand, increasing inflation. Yes? And that should stimulate our economy? That's the first question. And a second question to the professor about the role of national financial supervision. Does the professor think that national financial supervision is properly fulfilling its role? This is in the context of both the period when it allowed borrowing in Swiss francs to a large extent as well as the recent bankruptcy of banks, because there are reservations that national financial supervision either too early or too late, or that it missupervised these banks. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u42	Thank you very much. Professor, I have this question: what is your attitude towards the economic policy that the previous government has led? I am particularly concerned with your Deputy Prime Minister Rostowski, his philosophy of debt of the Polish state, the increase of public debt twice. What is your assessment of this situation? Do you think it was a good policy? What's your comment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u43	Thank you, Senator. Professor, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u44	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, a lot of questions. First question about Fed policy, the central bank of the United States. Indeed, the United States has raised interest rates for the first time since 2006. They are very low compared to ours, because this is a maximum of 0.5%. However, for investors this was a real signal encouraging the transfer of assets across the ocean. This is, I think, a certain threat to all countries. Yes? It's just that capital is looking for safe harbors, it's looking for profits, and US government bonds are really a very safe instrument. If this first raise... It seems to be the first of the series. She didn't cause a lot of turbulence. She was expected, and for months it's been said that the United States will do it. It can be said that it has been discounted a long time ago. So it's really a danger... If the U.S. decided several more times to do so, it might be a threat to the stability of the global system. But, I think the U.S. doesn't want that. They don't want the dollar to get stronger because it makes their competitiveness worse. Everyone now thinks of the simplest competitiveness and this course they try not to reduce, it certainly does not strengthen too much. So right now, I don't think Fed's gonna make a quick second raise. As regards the transition, another question From deflation to inflation, more money to the market... There's one thing that needs to be explained here. This deflation, which is taking place in Poland and globally, is mainly due to very low prices of energy raw materials and food. In Poland, there's an overlap... She's kind of imported in Poland. Deflation in Poland is imported. If we look at the base inflation, so after excluding the prices of energy raw materials and food, we will see that it is positive and it is 0.2, although the inflation rate of the CPI that my previous speaker was talking about was indeed -0.5 in December. . So this deflation in Poland is imported. However, I think that many countries are trying to induce this inflation through a policy of quantitative relaxation. The inflation is good because it cancels debts, reduces debts. And the biggest problem facing the world economy is debt, sovereign debts, extremely high. For the whole world... statistics show that it's about 260%. global GDP. So you could say it's 2.5 times more than the world produces. That is the debt of the countries of the world. Of course, for different economies it looks different, but this inflation is just sort of desirable, necessary and different ways of the economy trying to induce this inflation. So I understand that... For example, as far as Polish conditions are concerned, I am very good at evaluating the 500+ programme, which the government has adopted, because it will also influence internal demand, which is actually dragging our economy, pulling GDP in Poland. He has the greatest contribution to GDP development. And I'm sure these expenses will help raise that inflation. So these are the ways, such a more expansive fiscal policy. As far as the Financial Supervision Commission is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, by 2008, High Senate, this supervision was in the central bank. On 1 January 2008 I am talking about this banking part, because so, Senator... I realized that this is about this part of the financial system in Poland. Until January 2008, banking supervision was held at the central bank. He has been transferred to the Financial Supervision Commission since 1 January and operates there. My personal opinion, which I have already expressed in various, I think, even in public forms, is that banking supervision, e.g. Like the Bank of England, perhaps he should return to the central bank. In the Bank of England it was also carried out before the crisis outside the central bank, and in 2013 the experience of the crisis caused this banking supervision to return to the central bank, the Bank of England. As far as the economic policy of the previous government, Minister Rostowski, is concerned, I find it a little awkward to judge his achievements. Let me say this: Poland's debt is not dangerous, because it is actually 60% GDP. Also its structure is not bad, because it actually It's gotta be said. In the hands of non-residents is, let's say, only 38% government bonds. So when it comes to these indicators, it's not excessive debt. Indeed, it can be said that perhaps too fast a path to the growth of this debt has been adopted. I would like to say that in the countries of Europe... e.g. in Germany, this debt is 80% GDP, in Italy it is 130% So we, as I'm saying, thanks to the bill that imposes these limitations, we're just fine. [[Thanks, OFE.]] Yes, by taking over OFE it could be reduced once.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u45	Thank you very much, Professor. [[Thanks to stealing from OFE.]] Are there any more questions for the Professor? If not, thank you very much. [[Member of the Monetary Policy Council of Eugeniusz Gatnar: Thank you.]] [[Applause]] Are there any questions for the next candidate, Professor Kropiwnicki? I don't see... [[I do.]] There's one question. You're welcome, Senator Richard.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u46	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. Does the Monetary Policy Council have any impact on the debt of the Polish state budget, especially foreign debt? Is there any way that foreign debt could... The point is, if necessary, to be more indebted to the central bank than to foreign banks. What is your view of this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u47	Thank you, Senator. There's another question from Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u48	Yes. My question is a matter of appreciation, because in difficult times you have always been able to resist, among others. as head of the strategic study center, which is an institution notabene, like a tub-rise, appeared and disappeared, although it was necessary to exist. My question concerns a problem that has not been raised. I don't think I'm a member of this committee either. I'd say private savings. Poland is characterised by a very low level of private savings, which can be a stabilizer of the state's financial policy, securing various processes that we are not able to predict or manage. What possibilities do you see for a man to steer the supply of finance to increase this level?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u49	Thank you very much. Maybe two questions and an answer. Professor, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u50	Does the Monetary Policy Council have an impact on foreign debt? Not directly. But the National Bank of Poland has, of course, both through monetary policy-making and very directly. I would like to remind you that for several years the National Bank of Poland has had credit opportunities created by international financial institutions. This is the kind of credit we don't actually use, but we can use it. This credit is granted only to those economies which are recognised for their stability and for their credibility. It is simply checked several conditions regarding whether such a loan can be opened or not. It costs, but increases the confidence and stability of the economy which is granted, therefore the decision of the National Bank of Poland to open such a loan, I find it very appropriate. As far as other options are concerned, this is already on the side of the government rather than on the side of the Monetary Policy Council. And the answer to the second question. Here's the problem: when we want to determine the interest rate, we have to take two sides of the issue into account. On the one hand, the interest rate affects the credit price, which is quite obvious, and on the other hand the interest rate encourages or discourages money from being held in savings accounts. Here we have a further part of the dilemma that we have to deal with, remembering that it is quite common to complain that Poles have less savings than many other countries in the West, it is emphasized that this consumption demand in Poland is one of the elements that triggers the dynamics of our economy and its relative resistance to the shock transmitted from other countries. As a result... I believe that changes in the interest rate should be approached with the utmost caution in Poland. My general conviction is that it is not necessary to correct what works well. This arrangement of inflation targets and interest rates, which is set by the Monetary Policy Council by its decision, is currently working. Perhaps in time the situation will change, and then different circumstances will have to be taken into account and, if necessary, revisit these monetary policy tools.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u51	Thank you very much, Professor. Senator Gazweda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u52	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Professor, Mr Candidate, it is clear that raising inflation, raising interest rates increases the cost of loans, but we know very well that this has a very good impact on economic development, on the increase in potential, as you said earlier. The search for the center of gravity is absolutely necessary. How do you think this barrier is shaped? What instruments... Will those proposed by the current government in generally known proposals allow the shift from deflation to such a stable level of inflation? That's the first question. Second question. How can these determinations of interest rates of the National Bank of Poland be combined with economic growth, which the Monetary Policy Council has an impact on, can shape this policy? How do you view the possibility of placing additional amounts of money on the market in order to shape Poland's economic development? What instruments does the Monetary Policy Council have in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u53	Thank you. Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Professor, I have two questions, if you don't mind. There was a question about the possibility of increasing the savings of Poles. As you say, so-called. Belka tax as an instrument in some sense limiting the growth of savings of Poles? And second question. Do you think that the continued debt of municipalities and local governments in financial institutions and banks of different origins, which, I believe, the state has no control over, is losing control... We are only talking about external debt in non-Polish institutions, and there is rapid internal debt in non-Polish institutions. Do you believe that the municipalities and marshal offices and their subordinates may be indebted to financial institutions of foreign origin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u55	Thank you very much. Please answer me, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u56	Monetary Policy Council policy through monetary policy measures and its impact on savings and growth. As far as the impact on savings is concerned, it seems pretty obvious. If the interest rate is sufficiently encouraging, as the theory says, citizens are willing to keep money in the bank rather than at home, rather in accounts than in cash. As far as the impact of monetary policy measures on economic growth is concerned, the issue is more complicated. Yes, there is a belief in this impact and there is a long list of authors who can be relied on and who give monetary policy a huge role both in supporting and inhibiting growth. I must admit, however, that I am skeptical when it comes to stimulating economic growth. In this respect, my views are very close to the views of Paul Samuelson, Nobel Prize laureate, the American who raised, you can say, a dozen generations of economists in his country, and who claims that politics... I mean. there are two different textbooks in which the same thesis is presented in different words. In one of them, he says that with monetary policy or central bank policy, it's a bit like trying to get a horse to eat what's in his trough. Well, you can bring a horse, you can even put your head in the trough, but you must eat it yourself. That was his first comparison. And the other one... In his books published a few years later, he compared central bank policy to a rope tied to a horse's tail. With such a tool you can brake the horse's running, but no one has managed to speed up the horse's running with it yet, because it is difficult to push with the rope. The main problem in terms of growth is whether investors, the private sector, business will want to invest, the situation they anticipate in the period when the investments start to produce, they will start to produce the supply effect. If projections are optimistic, even at a relatively high rate, there is a tendency to invest. If predictions are pessimistic, then any rate greater than zero is not enough to convince them to invest and stimulate economic growth in this respect. Then there is space for a possible financial policy, also called fiscal policy, i.e. budgetary expenditure and taxation policy, but this is no longer the competence of the Monetary Policy Council. As regards cooperation between the Monetary Policy Council and the financial authorities of the government, I believe that such cooperation is very desirable, but it must be implemented very carefully. I believe that I am not the only one in this Chamber who remembers the time when the President of the National Bank of Poland was also sitting at the meetings of the Council of Ministers, and the time when the Council of Ministers delegated its representative to the meetings of the Board of Directors and the Monetary Policy Council. [[It's supposed to come back.]] Unfortunately, as it turned out, we received comments from the authorities of the European Union in this respect, that such a situation could threaten to violate the sovereignty of the National Bank of Poland. And at the end of the period of operation of Jerzy Buzek's government, there was, you can say, separation. The President of the National Bank of Poland stopped being invited, or stopped accepting invitations, I do not remember. We also stopped directing our representative to meetings of decision-making bodies of the National Bank of Poland. What do I think of Belka's tax? This is such a strange tax, systematically criticized during election campaigns and maintained by all governments since its introduction. This shows that the tax, although perhaps not liked more than other taxes, is important from the point of view of budgetary revenue. And I don't think we're gonna get a situation where it's gonna be lifted. As for the debt of municipalities and local governments, the Public Finance Act sets out barriers to the debt of local governments. I even think that these barriers are a little excessive. I am not referring to a specific self-government, but to building the principle of solidarity, collective responsibility, which has no basis for transferring behaviour to individual entities. Because if certain indicators are exceeded, a barrier to borrowing can be imposed on the whole local government sector. I think it's a misunderstanding. As president of the city of Łódź, I had no possibility to influence what he was doing. President of Krakow. And the City Council in Łódź It also had no influence on what was decided by the City Council of Warsaw. I also believe that some changes should be made to the debt ratios of local governments, as soon as possible, so that local authorities can benefit from almost the last large amounts of money that are available from the European Union budget in Brussels. More precisely, I would prefer that local government debt be measured in such a way that the ratio would be excluded from the indicator for the co-financing of EU funds. Because there will still be some EU funds in the near future, not as big as the one that ends, but still significant. And I do not think that another perspective is equally gracious to Poland. Rather, as part of the principle of solidarity in European Union policy, the beneficiaries will be countries which have been adopted into the Union later than Poland, such as Romania, Bulgaria, which are in far worse economic condition and necessarily There, this support will be more natural. And as for borrowing in foreign banking institutions and credit institutions, foreign financial institutions, that's kind of a problem here. This is a matter that is not widely discussed in Poland, but we must remember it: if we raise the price of loans in Poland by means of interest rates, we create temptation and encourage borrowing abroad, where these interest rates are simply lower. In such a situation, we are faced with exposure to the consequences of changes in the exchange rate, as experienced by those who took credit in francs. Although they were involved in institutions located in Poland. So there is this additional problem here, the more that, yes, you can be insured against exchange rate risk, but it is not cheap insurance and can absorb at this moment the benefits obtained in such a way that the Polish entrepreneur will be indebted to foreign institutions. It can be said that the Monetary Policy Council, when deciding on the size of the percentages set out in the percentages, is experiencing a period of very intense work in which it has to take into account a number of different elements and mutually reinforcing rations. This has to be balanced, so it is hardly surprising that sometimes the council can sit until late in the night for a few days before going to a press conference with only one number. I think I've answered my questions so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I will address you this way, even because of the government functions that you performed in the governments of the Third Republic of Poland, I have this question. What's your attitude towards banking tax? How do you assess the appropriateness of introducing this tax and the principles proposed by the government regarding this tax? And in your opinion, is he needed, or is he not needed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u59	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Professor? I don't see any calls. [[Mr. Marshal, if you could get from these hypermarkets...]] Good. I'm asking the Professor for an answer. [[Because it's a reference to the whole thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u60	One can say that the second question is much easier for me, Mr Senator, because as far as the tax on large-scale shops is concerned, it is in particular this direction of discussion which is at the moment dominant, and the proposals to make its amount dependent on the financial result rather than on the surface, I consider it a very correct direction. [[I guess from the spins, not from the results...]] Oh, yeah, yeah. [[From the turn, not from the results.]] Well, Dear Mark, of course we're not different in this respect. That's what I'm talking about. It makes more sense to me than... What I'm going to say is why I think it's good that it's going to be from turnover, not for example. on profit, on income or even on income. Because one of the reasons why in Poland there is a problem of tax on the business activity of large-area shops and corporations in which they operate is that the revenues from the tax are not only quite low, but in addition have been decreasing in recent years, despite the fact that turnover has increased. I do not want to talk too long about the various mechanisms that these corporations are suspected of applying in order to avoid paying tax in Poland. The European Commission is also interested in this issue. Quite recently, such a study was published, which the public could say, omitted, because it appeared not only that in the Legal Newspaper, it was also in the pages on accounting. A Polish expert working for the European Union stated there that there exists, among the experts of the European Union, a very strong suspicion that a large proportion of these proceeds, which avoid taxation, serve inter alia. financing terrorist groups. And that a report on this is being prepared in the European Union. It can be said that these problems now go beyond the scope of the question which has been addressed to me here. In any case, I believe that we are dealing with an obvious tax spill, which should be paid in Poland. And that's why you're looking for a source that's hard to hide and relative. I repeat: relatively It's easy to estimate. And that's why I'm in favour. I believe that if a company operates in a country, whether it is a company from that country or a foreign company, the tax should be paid where it benefits from doing business. No one can convince me that the losses generated on paper are real losses, that zero balances are real balances or that low income is really low income. As far as the bank tax is concerned, here I have, I have to say, some kind of problem. This problem is somewhat due to the fact that today a letter from the President of the European Central Bank concerning this tax has been published by the Polish Press Agency. This letter is a kind of... it is difficult to say whether it is a warning or an expression of some kind of doubt or to draw attention to some of the dangers associated with the introduction of the tax. Let's take that last hypothesis. Mr Draghi pointed out that such a tax could be an incentive to transfer assets abroad. But it's not the only one, you might say, cause for alarm. Mr Draghi also states that such a tax may be important to aggravate the problem of weaker financial institutions and that, although such a bank tax exists in many European countries, it has been introduced in some countries because of the previous public aid which the financial sector has received from the state authorities and in others to compensate for some of the structural irregularities that existed there. In the meantime, Poland is, in Mr Draghi's opinion, the only case in which this tax is introduced for budgetary reasons. I do not know whether Poland is really the only such case, I have not had the opportunity to investigate the matter in this respect and I do not think it is the responsibility of the Monetary Policy Council. That is all I can say on this subject now, either by putting up or repeating the question marks that have been placed by an important European Union officer, the head of the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u61	Thank you very much, Professor. No further questions, so I'm announcing a 15-minute break by 12.55. After the break, we will proceed with the vote. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 41 to 12 minutes 55]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Quiet, please. We are voting on the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council. The Senate shall adopt a resolution on this matter in a secret vote by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. A secret ballot shall take place using sealed ballots. To hold a secret ballot, I appoint the secretaries: Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Jerzy Wcisła. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. The card can be placed next to 3 names at most. A card that has more than 3 characters on it will be treated as a void voice. The voting card shall be valid if 3 characters are put up if 2 characters are put up if 1 character is put up if no mark is put up. The senator may abstain or be against all candidates. Then he leaves the card empty and doesn't put any mark on it. A senator who wishes to object or abstain from a particular candidacy leaves an empty box at the same name. After filling out the cards, the senators who are read in alphabetical order will throw these cards into the urn. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators to fill out the ballots. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Did all the senators receive the ballots? I ask Senator Alexander Swede to read the names of the senators in turn, and I ask the senators to insert their names into the urn filled with ballots for secret ballots.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A secret ballot list. I ask that the senators of the Republic of Poland vote in the following order: Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Michał Ambrozik, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Jerzy Bielan, Grzegorz Michał Bierecki, Przemysław Jacek Błaszczyk, Alexander Tomasz Bobko, Ryszard Wiesław Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Stefan Borowski, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Bogdan Michał Borusewicz, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Mieczysław Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Jan Cichoń, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Józef Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Felix Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Kazimierz Gawel, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Józef Golba, Arkadiusz Jakub Grabowski, Thomas Paweł Grodzki, Maciej Tomasz Grubski, Jan Vincenty Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Mariusz Kleina, Bogdan Adam Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Viktor Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Jerzy Kraska, Maciej Adam Łuczak, Józef Mikołaj Łyczak, Richard Bogdan Majer, Robert Adam Mamątow, Marek Eryk Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Tadeusz Mioduszewski, Andrzej Kazimierz Biesiołek, Krzysztof Stanisław Mroz, Grzegorz Bernard Napieralski, Jarosław Wojciech Obremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Michał Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piotr Piecha, Leszek Marian Infantry, Alexander August Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michael Francis the Crowd, Krystian Karol Probie, Zdzisław Stanisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Dariusz Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Kazimier Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Piotr Rybicki, Czesław Wincenty Ryszka, Janina Zofia Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Krzysztof Marek Elephant, Waldemar Jan Sługocki, Andrzej Józef Stanisławek, Lydia Eve Staron, Grażyna Anna Štark, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael Joseph the locksmith, Przemysław Kazimierz Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Richard Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Adam Wind, Jacek Władysław Włosowicz, Andrzej Franciszek Wojtyła, Alicia Maria Zając, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Grażyna Zdrojewska, Mr Piotr Benedict Zientarski, Jan Krzysztof Żaryn, Alexander Jakub Szwed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u63	Thank you. Have all the senators voted? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering an adjournment until 13.20. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 03 to 13 minutes 23]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Protocol of the secret ballot of 13 January 2016 on the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council. Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Aleksander Szwed and Senator Jerzy Wcisła state that 86 votes were cast by secret ballot on the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council, including valid votes.86. The absolute majority required is 44. In favour of Marek Chrzanowski's candidacy, 55 senators voted in favour of Marek Dąbrowski's candidacy, 30 senators voted in favour of Eugeniusz Gatnar's candidacy and 61 senators voted in favour of Jerzy Janusz Kropiwnicki's candidacy. [[Applause]] The absolute number of votes required was obtained by Mr Marek Chrzanowski, Mr Eugeniusz Gatnar and Mr Jerzy Janusz Kropiwnicki. [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council. The Senate appointed Mr Marek Chrzanowski, Mr Eugeniusz Gatnar and Mr Jerzy Janusz Kropiwnicki as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. I ask the Senate members of the Monetary Policy Council to approach the Presidency table. I'd like to give you the Senate resolution. [[Applause]] We will then proceed to the next item on the agenda in which you will take an oath in accordance with the Act on the National Bank of Poland. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the second agenda: taking an oath by the members appointed by the Senate of the Monetary Policy Council. In accordance with the Act on the National Bank of Poland, the members of the Council shall take an oath before the appointing authority before taking up their duties in the Council. An oath can be made with the addition of the words: "So help me God. The Senate appointed Mr Marek Chrzanowski, Mr Eugeniusz Gatnar and Mr Jerzy Janusz Kropiwnicki as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. Everyone, please rise. [[Everybody up.]] I ask a member of the Monetary Policy Council, Mr Marek Chrzanowski, to approach the speaker and take an oath.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u64	As a member of the Monetary Policy Council, I solemnly swear that I will act with full impartiality, knowledge and experience in monetary policy, in accordance with the objectives of the National Bank of Poland's activities. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u65	Thank you. I ask a member of the Monetary Policy Council, Mr Eugenius Gatnar, to approach the speaker and take an oath.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a member of the Monetary Policy Council, I solemnly swear that I will act with full impartiality, knowledge and experience in monetary policy, in accordance with the objectives of the National Bank of Poland's activities. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u67	Thank you. I ask a member of the Monetary Policy Council, Mr Jerzy Janusz Kropiwnicki, to approach the speaker and take an oath.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u68	As a member of the Monetary Policy Council, I solemnly swear that I will act with full impartiality, knowledge and experience in monetary policy, in accordance with the objectives of the National Bank of Poland's activities. So help me God. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u69	Thank you. Have a seat. I state that all the members of the Monetary Policy Council appointed by the Senate have taken an oath in accordance with the Act on the National Bank of Poland. Once again, I congratulate the appointed members of the Monetary Policy Council. I wish you many successes in further work. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: consent to the criminal liability of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. I would like to inform you that the Senate Marshal has sent a request from Mr Bogusław Mikita, represented by Andrzej Markowicz, to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, to the Senate of the Republic of Poland, to draw Senator Mieczysław Augustyn's criminal liability. The Commission has examined the proposal and prepared a report on it. This report is contained in print No 51. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I submit a report of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee on the application of a private prosecutor to consent by the Senate of the Republic of Poland to the criminal liability of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. On 24 August 2015, the Senate Marshal sent a request to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senator Affairs Committee. Following the examination of this request at its meeting on 22 December 2015, pursuant to Article 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council [4]. 7c paragraph. 5 Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the committee shall submit a proposal to reject the application submitted on 17 August 2015 by Mr Bogusław Mikita, represented by Andrzej Markowicz's lawyer, to give the Senate of the Republic of Poland the consent to draw Senator Mieczysław Augustyn to criminal liability. The High House will allow me to submit a brief report on this committee meeting. The Commission, after hearing the prosecutor's request and hearing the explanations of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and his description of the situation and after the discussion, proposes that Mr Bogusław Mikita's application, represented by Andrzej Markowicz, should be rejected on 17 August 2015, for the Senate's consent to draw Senator Mieczysław Augustyn to criminal liability. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u72	I have one question. Is the prosecutor, because it was said that the prosecutor is a private prosecutor, or is that from a private accusation? And does the charge relate to the execution of the senator's mandate?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u73	It's from a private prosecution. The allegations concern the inclusion by Senator Mieczysław Augustyn on the social network of content, which, according to the person submitting this request, exposed her client to the loss of respect, social trust, and prevented him from doing business as president of the association operating in Pile.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u74	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dorota Czudowska wants to ask you a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'd like to know. I think a lot of senators do, too. Just a little bit of what's going on, for what? All we know is that the motion is private.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u76	I'm sure Senator Mieczysław Augustyn will be the person who has more to say about this. I have a transcript from the committee meeting and I inform the High Senate that the cases concern the information that Senator Mieczysław Augustyn received from a group of residents. These cases are of a corrupt nature. They shall be conducted in connection with these matters. These issues, of which Senator Augustine has publicly informed the public, as well as the legitimate authorities, concern irregularities in settlements with the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. Senator Augustine has made public on the media and on the social network the issues with which voters who fear for their safety have come to him. These voters didn't want to make this public on their own. Mr. Senator took this up and, as he said, this motion to waive immunity is related to this case. The point is to make him an accused person in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Andrzej Biesiołek wants to ask you a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, I have a question: what was the outcome of the vote on this issue at the committee meeting? How did the senators vote? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u79	The senators voted unanimously against this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u80	Good. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, you mentioned that Senator Augustine had notified the competent authorities. Was there a Central Corruption Bureau among these bodies?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u82	Yes, Mr. Senator, they also included the Central Anti-corruption Bureau.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u83	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question at this point? [[Voice from the room: No, no questions asked.]] I don't see any volunteers. I thank the rapporteur very much. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] High Izbo, in accordance with Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 The Senate's Rules of Procedure shall examine the report of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs without discussion. The Senator concerned can provide explanations and the senators have the right to ask questions on this matter. Would Senator Mieczysław Augustyn like to make an explanation? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u84	Mrs. Marshal! I wouldn't dare take care of the High House of Time, I would waive immunity if I weren't convinced and there was no evidence that I was doing my senate duties, revealing the suspicion of corruption that concerned the county hospital and the surroundings of the Self-Government Agreement, which Mr Mikita is the President of. It is an association which he patronizes and from which he was elected former Senator Henryk Stoklos. In these recordings, which were presented by the hospital administration, there were suspicions of corruption concerning the authorities of the Pilski district. On Facebook, when I informed the public about this, I wrote that I was doing this because I wanted to show that I had to look very carefully at these authorities in a situation where one of the leaders of this group was charged several times, the other was in custody for violence in the family, and the third, Mr Mikita, was dismissed as vice-stars for abuse. I have a protocol in front of me from the regional control of the social policy centre, which shows that it is not true that people with disabilities went to Germany for a business trip while they were entrepreneurs of this group. For this reason, the old-timer, whom I first informed about this abuse, actually declaring it very carefully, maybe because of his lack of trust, fired this gentleman from the function of vice-stars. Hence the conclusion. If you'd like to know any more details, I'm here to explain. Anyway, I wanted to justify myself, explain why I'm bothering you at all. If I wasn't convinced that the point was that I was fulfilling my mandate and acting in good faith, I would certainly be subject to judgment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. Do any of you senators want to ask a question about this? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare a half-hour break. The session will resume at 14.10 a.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 39 to 14 minutes 10]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the third item: consent to the criminal liability of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. We join the secret vote on the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to bring Senator Mieczysław Augustyn to criminal liability. The Senate agrees that the senator should be held liable by a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of senators. Failure to obtain the required majority of votes means the adoption of a resolution on non-approval of the Senator's criminal liability. The vote on personal matters shall be secret and shall be taken using sealed ballots. To hold a secret ballot, I appoint the secretaries: Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Alexander Swede and Senator George Wcisla. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. The secret ballot shall be marked with only one mark on the ballot. A ballot card with more than one mark on it or no mark on it shall be deemed to be invalid. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen. After completing the ballots of the secret state, the senators will put the cards in the ballot box in alphabetical order. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators to fill in the ballots. I can also ask for one... Thank you very much. Did all the senators receive the ballots? Yes? Then please fill out the cards. I ask Senator Alexander Swede to read in alphabetical order the names of the senators, and I ask the senators to post their names in the ballot box filled with secret ballots after reading them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A secret ballot list. Please cast the votes by the senators of the Republic of Poland 9th term in the following order: Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Michał Ambrozik, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Jerzy Bielan, Grzegorz Michał Bierecki, Przemysław Jacek Błaszczyk, Alexander Tomasz Bobko, Ryszard Wiesław Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Stefan Borowski, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Bogdan Michał Borusewicz, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Mieczysław Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Jan Cichoń, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Józef Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Felix Fedorowicz: Peter Florek, Robert Kazimierz Gawel, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Józef Golba, Arkadiusz Jakub Grabowski, Thomas Paweł Grodzki, Maciej Tomasz Grubski, Jan Vincenty Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Marian Kleina, Bogdan Adam Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Viktor Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Jerzy Kraska, Maciej Adam Łuczak, Józef Mikołaj Łyczak, Richard Bogdan Majer, Robert Adam Mamątow, Marek Eryk Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Tadeusz Mioduszewski, Andrzej Kazimierz Biesiołek, Krzysztof Stanisław Mroz, Grzegorz Bernard Napieralski, Jarosław Wojciech Obremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Michał Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piotr Piecha, Leszek Marian Infantry, Alexander August Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michael Francis the Crowd, Krystian Karol Probie, Zdzisław Stanisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Dariusz Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Kazimier Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Piotr Rybicki, Czesław Wincenty Ryszka, Janina Zofia Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Krzysztof Marek Elephant, Waldemar Jan Sługocki, Andrzej Józef Stanisławek, Lydia Eve Staron, Grażyna Anna Štark, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael Joseph the locksmith, Przemysław Kazimierz Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Richard Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Adam Wind, Jacek Władysław Włosowicz, Andrzej Franciszek Wojtyła, Alicia Maria Zając, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Grażyna Zdrojewska, Mr Piotr Benedict Zientarski, Jan Krzysztof Żaryn, Alexander Jakub Szwed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. Have all the senators voted? [[Voices from the room: One more, one more.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let me ask you one more time: have all the senators voted? Yes. Thank you very much. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering a 15-minute adjournment until 2:33 p.m. [[Talking in the O.R.]] By 2:30 p.m., ladies and gentlemen. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 18 to 14 minutes 30]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the third item: consent to the criminal liability of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I'm declaring the results. Protocol of the secret ballot of 13 January 2016 on the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to the criminal liability of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Aleksander Szwed, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, states that 85 votes were cast, including important votes, in a secret vote concerning the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to the criminal liability of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Two senators voted in favour, 77 senators voted against and three senators abstained. The absolute majority of the statutory number of senators required is 51. This protocol was concluded and signed. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate of the Republic of Poland has adopted a resolution on the non-expression of consent to the criminal liability of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] High Izbo, we begin to consider the fourth item on the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter is included in print No 64. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee. You're welcome, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a proposal from the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the membership of Senate committees. The Commission adopted a draft resolution on 30 December which it recommends. I'll read the draft resolution. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on changes in the composition of Senate committees. Art. 1. Senate of the Republic of Poland on the basis of art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate dismiss Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Art. 2. Senate of the Republic of Poland on the basis of art. 13 Rules of Procedure of the Senate elects: Senator Grzegorz Bierecki to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. Art. 3. The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I can't see. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, it doesn't work, it doesn't work. Why isn't it working?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Try the card again. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Already? Yes? [[How does it not work?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It doesn't matter. The light is there, but the card doesn't matter...]] Good. I think we're about to clear that up, ladies and gentlemen. Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. 85 senators voted, 84 in favour, no one against, one abstention. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the eighth Senate meeting has been exhausted. I inform the senators that the next Senate meeting will take place on 28 and 29 January 2016. The order of this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Antoni Szymanski, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Quiet, please.]] On behalf of several senators, I would like to present a senator's statement addressed to the German ambassador in Poland, Mr Rolf Nikel. It sounds like this. We are concerned about the statements of some German politicians who have recently presented our country as breaking democracy. In Poland, as a result of democratic elections, society gave a mandate for political change, so statements about the coup or putinisation not only have nothing to do with reality, but also fuel up unrest in Poland. By believing in the continuation of the good neighbourhood of Germans and Poles, which was initiated by the letter of Polish bishops to Germans in 1975, we are moved by unexpected, grossly critical assessments of Polish internal policy, which were expressed by some leading German politicians and opinion-making media. Both the President of the European Parliament and the German Commissioner, as well as some German politicians, have formulated threats of sanctions against Poland. In Poland we do not have a coup d'état or putinisation. The social change process announced in the election campaign has been launched, which by nature must mean the reconstruction of the political scene. Poland and Germany have built a good social and economic neighbourhood. However, we are afraid that unfair assessments and statements can make relations between our societies worse, which is not good for neighbouring countries. Good relations between our countries and societies are of great value and should not be compromised. This statement was signed by the senators: Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Senator Józef Łyczak, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator Artur Warzocha, Senator Rafał Silsarz, Senator Marek Pęk, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, Senator Antoni Szymański and Senator Ryszard Majer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u91	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for the senators to address statements to representatives of other countries. So that I propose that you make this statement to the Foreign Ministry, which will give rise to this matter. [[Mrs. Marshal, before making this statement and reading it, I asked the legal office if this was acceptable. I have received information confirming that, yes, it is acceptable. Then this statement has been... thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. We need to settle this because there are conflicting opinions on this issue. Allow me, Mr. Senator, that we, together with your marshal and the legal office, will consider the addressee of this statement and how the Rules of Procedure decide on this matter. Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. This statement is addressed to the Attorney General Andrzej Seremet on the use of the helplessness of the agricultural family during the conclusion of a unfavourable lease agreement. I ask you to examine the case of the legal proceedings of Act II Nc 121/11 and Act II Nc 123/11 of the District Court for Warsaw-Prague in which the case in the pre-trial proceedings of the State of K., residing in L., county of W., was ordered to the benefit of a financial institution (...) which, together with interest and costs, increased to more than PLN 550 thousand. The circumstances of this case indicate that the K. country, which is a farmer running a 20-acre farm, was caught up in a financial trap. They concluded a lease agreement for agricultural machinery Tractor, milking machine and straw beaming machine And as it turned out, in the content of the contract written in very small, even illegible print, it was written, of which K. did not know that leasing payments were converted into currency, in Japanese yen, which caused leasing payments to increase significantly to amounts that K. was unable to pay. Therefore, after a few months of the agreement, the K State returned the machines. Yet, they have a financial obligation that is absolutely disproportionate to the short-term benefit they have enjoyed from the use of machines for several months. Their commitment has now increased to amounts exceeding perhaps the value of the entire holding. I believe that this situation should be the subject of a prosecutorial analysis, both in terms of criminal law and civil law, because it seems that we are dealing with a fairly serious abuse involving the use of the specific helplessness of State K., who are ordinary farmers, through the sophisticated operation of a financial institution. There is no way to agree that in a state of law people can be tricked into bad agreements, and then with all the ruthlessness, causing harm to these people, to enforce the consequences of this agreement. I ask the prosecution to examine this carefully, stressing that this individual case can be an illustration of the wider use of such financial traps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. Please make a statement by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u94	Statement to the head of the Registry of the Constitutional Tribunal. Dear Minister, In connection with your letter of 29 December 2015, which reached me on 11 January 2016, in which you defined my statement at the sixth meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on 23 December in point 13 of the agenda on the amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 22 December 2015, as an insulting, manifest violation of my personal belongings and undermining my confidence in the public service position, I express the following view. In fact, I said at the time: 'Well, the ruins of the law, the ruins of the state took place on 12 May 2015 when, during the sitting of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice and the Legislative Commission, Mr Maciej Graniecki, the head of the Office of the Constitutional Court, took out the amendment that Mr Robert Kropiwnicki had willingly tabled. It was a famous art. 117, uh... I'm sorry, I have to take my glasses out, but age is doing its job. ...which Mr Kropiwnicki willingly submitted. It was a famous art. 137 of the amended law, as a result of which the constitutional crisis started in Poland, which is already global and pan-European. The Civic Platform started it. She prepared a draft hand in hand with Professor Andrzej Rzepliński, who participated in more than 20 committee meetings and the subcommittees . and his staff and his colleagues from the Court, who defined which amendments to the Law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act and which did not. Talking about taking over the state, ruining the law... This is done by people, it is done by a political environment that has no moral right to speak on the subject because it has assassinated the Constitutional Tribunal in the Act of 25 June 2015. In fact, in the light of the transcripts available to me, you were not the author of the amendment on the wording of the article. 137 in the text of the Act of 25 June 2015 on the Constitutional Tribunal. For this reason, I deeply regret and I apologize for the unjustified charge. I do so in the Senate in the form of a senator's statement, because I have no other legal opportunity to make such an apology in the High House. As for the remaining parts of my speech, I fully support them. I believe that the direct participation of several judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, including its President, and a high-ranking clerk of the Constitutional Tribunal in the work on the Constitutional Tribunal Act in the Polish Parliament violates the good principles and constitutional division of power into legislative, executive and judicial. It is therefore contrary to the principle of a democratic rule of law and does not build neither the authority of the Constitutional Court nor the confidence of citizens in state institutions. Your active participation in the work on the Constitutional Tribunal Act at committee and sub-committee meetings is well documented in the transcripts of the meetings of these committees. And so on. At the extraordinary subcommittee meeting on 9 April 2015, the legislator Przemysław Sadłoń on the proposal to add an article. 44b stated: "It was initially consulted with the representatives of the Court, with Minister Graniecki, which may indicate an extra-communicative, non-communicative discussion of the form of the law. Undoubtedly, you and the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal who attended the meetings had a real impact on the shape of the law, which followed by Contrary to the principle that it should not be a judge in its own case, it was assessed by the Constitutional Court, which found that certain of its provisions were unconstitutional. Moreover, it is not apparent from the transcripts that any of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, including you, would draw attention to constitutional doubts regarding the amendment by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, which became a famous article. The Act of 25 June 2015 and caused confusion around the Constitutional Tribunal. Sincerely, Jan Maria Jackowski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to make a statement from Senator Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u96	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I have a question for the Minister of Health, Dr. Konstanty Radziwiłł, about a hospital that doesn't exist, i.e. a hospital in Legionów, and the question is related to letters sent mainly by e-mail, which I receive as a senator from this land, in which the inhabitants of Legionowa inform me that for a long time some residents have been trying to make such a hospital in Legionów. The nearest rescue units, i.e. branches of Brodnowski, Białański Hospitals in Warsaw and Nowodworski Hospitals in the district next door, are unable to serve all residents of the Legion district, and since they are residents of other regions of Poland than the mentioned districts and places where hospitals are located, they are denied this service and are in a very uncomfortable situation. Legionally speaking, it is one of the largest cities in this region of Warsaw, which seems all the more to justify the establishment of such a hospital. The local authorities declare their willingness to remedy these demands of the inhabitants, but this ends only on the re-election, on the occasion of each election, of agreeing to represent the inhabitants in this matter, and after the local elections the whole matter will be quiet and it is not very clear how to get out of this situation. In 2011, a decision was taken and then it became a fact, namely an analysis on the need to build a hospital. This analysis, carried out by a medical expert, Mr Andrzej Krupa from Med-Consulting, is probably the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. Therefore, the additional question: is there a copy of this analysis there and what further steps could the Ministry take? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-13-senat-08-1.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of senators wishing to make a statement has been exhausted. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no messages. Good. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the eighth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. Thank you very much. The eighth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 14 minutes 51]]
