ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's proceedings Mr Wojciech King, Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, Mr Daniel Milewski and Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha. The first part of the session will be Mr Arkadiusz Carrot and Mr Arkadius Myrch. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Wojciech King and Arkadiusz Carrot. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 9, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9, - Communication with Poles abroad together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 9.15, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Communication with Poles abroad together with the Committee on Culture and Media - hour. 10, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Health-- hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13, - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 14, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Social and Family Policy together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - at 10 p.m. 16, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 17, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 7:30. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Lubuskie Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Opole Parliamentary Team - hour 11.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Nurses, midwives and other health care professionals - h.m. 10.30, - Parliamentary Group on Constitutional Governance and the Rule of Law - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Solutions to Drug Addiction Problems - hour 2.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Regulation of Property Relations - h. 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u3	Thank you very much, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. We proceed with the first question. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, Mrs Anna Czech and Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, the Law and Justice Club. The question is on the implementation of the e-blood project and proceedings that are pending before the TSUE against Poland in connection with the non-implementation of the blood donation directives, and is addressed to the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u4	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On 10 December 2015, the European Commission informed that it had decided to refer a complaint to the Court of Justice of the European Union for breach of the Treaty obligations on Poland's failure to fully transpose the blood donation and blood treatment directives. Given the nature of the issues that must be regulated under Polish law, the current government has drafted a bill amending the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws. This draft, together with the implementing acts issued on the basis of it, fully and fully implement into the Polish legal system the European Union Directive on both quality standards, safe collection and blood safety, transport rules, imports of blood and its components from outside the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area. Finally, the provisions of the amended law will ensure the implementation of the provisions of EU directives in Polish law, which guarantee the safety of all recipients and blood donors and personnel involved in the collection and preparation of blood or its components. They will also affect the maintenance of appropriate standards throughout the blood donation and blood treatment process, from the time the donor takes blood from the donor through its examination, preparation, transport, release and finally transfusion in the recipient. This project we are catching up on the huge arrears made by our predecessors, but this project has not yet been adopted, the procedure is ongoing. My question relates to the consequences of the European Commission's bringing an infringement of treaty obligations before the Court of Justice. Minister, please answer: What is the threat, what are the consequences of not implementing EU directives into Polish law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u5	Thank you, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u6	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! The deadline for implementing European Union Directives 2002/98, 2004/33, 2005/61 and 2005/62 expired in 2005 and 2006. Until now, the Polish law in force has not fully implemented the above-mentioned directives. I answer the question of what is the possible continuation of the procedure. Firstly, the Court of Justice will find that we have not complied with the opinion obtained, we have not adopted the Act by 27 April 2015. This is the first sentence. If Poland does not comply with the above mentioned above. the judgment, the European Commission may refer the case to the Court of Justice again. The European Commission can then indicate the amount of the lump sum or periodic penalty payment to be paid by Poland. The second possible option: if the Court finds that the State has failed to comply with the first judgment, it may impose a lump sum or periodic penalty payment - so-called. Second sentence. In the case of Poland, for each day of the infringement, starting from the day of the second sentence, a periodic penalty payment will be charged, which will normally amount to several tens of thousands of euros per day. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the minimum lump sum is 4266 thousand. Euros. The Commission may also request that both penalties be imposed for the same infringement. As regards the calculation of the penalty, unfortunately, it is not possible to calculate precisely the penalties that threaten Poland at the moment, as the European Commission uses several coefficients for their calculation, e.g. the seriousness of the infringement and the duration of the infringement, and today it is impossible to predict what the value of these factors will be if a complaint is lodged by the European Commission. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mrs Anna Czech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u8	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Just a quick question. This draft introduces a legal basis that will enable the creation of an e-blood electronic system containing information about blood donors and adverse events. It will also serve reporting, which is very important. Can the Minister expand, clarify this subject, especially taking into account the costs of this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u9	I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u10	Thank you. The main objective of this system is to improve and increase the supervision of blood donation and blood treatment, and thus to increase the level of blood safety and safety of blood recipients, blood donors and its components. The system is intended to replace the registers currently operating in blood donation and blood treatment centres and the Institute of Hematology and Transfusion. In addition, the e-blood system is also intended to apply to the blood treatment process at the level of medicinal entities, including hospitals and hospital blood banks. The introduction of this system, in addition to the above, will also allow the proper disposal of data concerning, for example, the storage states of blood and its components in particular blood donation and blood treatment centers, which unfortunately does not exist today. The tools provided by the e-blood system will allow for proper and contemporary tasks to be performed throughout the whole blood service system. The system is to be developed between 2017 and 2019 and the funds for its acquisition will come largely from EU funds under the Operational Programme (the "Digital Poland" Operational Programme). I would like to point out that it is today that the deadline for submitting an application to the European Commission for funding this project and today the Ministry of Digitisation, as the institution responsible for implementing the Operational Programme, will send this proposal to the European Commission. As far as the budget of the project is concerned, it is planned at 48 788 000. This is the amount resulting from the final form of the feasibility study after verification of the individual cost items. I would also like to add that the necessity of the project is due to the fact that at present there are obstacles limiting the possibility of adapting supply, i.e. blood donation, to demand, namely the use of blood and its components for medical purposes. This can be characterized as follows: blood collection data and its use are distributed in the IT systems of individual blood donation and blood treatment centres. The public blood service units use four different, independent and data-free electronic systems. Blood supply measures are carried out by individual blood donation and blood treatment centres and are not fully coordinated. At present, it is not possible to obtain information on the actual need for blood components and it is not possible to obtain information on the use of hospital requirements. Blood collection is associated with additional inconveniences for the donor. The donors see the need and the ability to limit them. Therefore, the Ministry of Health [[♪ The bell ♪]] has decided to introduce this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u11	Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. Let's move on to the second question. The question is asked by Mrs Lidia Gądek and Ms Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform, on delays in payment of EU subsidies - to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The first question is asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u12	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I've lived and worked in the country since I was born, so I see farmers every day. So far, they've only come to my office - the family doctor. In recent times, my parliamentary office has also been haunted, making official letters, requests for intervention in connection with delays in the payments granted to them and the EU grant charged. They feel sorry because in previous years they didn't put so far away during the time of the transfers to their accounts. Winter is almost over, actually ended, spring is full and there is no wonder the farmers who wanted to prepare for the season properly. I would like to remind you that since the entry into the European Union, Polish farmers receive subsidies for each hectare they grow. In the past 2015 it was an average of around 1 000. PLN per hectare. The farmer's applications are completed in the spring, at the end of the year the agency usually paid the funds. So far, money has appeared in farmers' accounts in most cases in November and December, and as a result of this new, like a good change of money did not reach farmers even in mid-March this year. During one of the conferences, the Minister stated that the IT system prepared by the predecessors was responsible for the delay mentioned in the payments. Why, then, were the predecessors able to use it properly and transfer money in time? Why is it worse now? Please note that the European Union will soon audit the regularity of payments. The EU auditors will verify that the aid officials have received appropriate training and that everything has been carried out in accordance with the law. And one last thing. Deputy Minister Bogucki, in one of the interviews, said that farmers who lack cash should take credit for the payments in order to settle it later with the agency. Therefore, when are you really planning to pay all the payments due when you are proposing alternatives without thinking? Why are you doing this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Trying to burden farmers with another bureaucratic duty? Is this an introduction to the crawling expropriation of Polish farmers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u13	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Mr Ryszard Zarudzki will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. If that is the knowledge of Members of the Platform on the implementation of direct payments, then there has really been a good change. I assure you, please, I would be happy to explain in all the details. I would like to inform you that at 31 March 83% farmers received direct payments. I can present the full material, there's no problem, I'll make it available and I can confirm it. [[You're welcome.]] PLN 9.4 billion has been transferred, that is sixty... 2/3 of the financial envelope. That's one thing. Secondly, at the beginning of next week, we will transfer 900 million by the end of next week. So it's 1,200 grand. farmers at 1350 thousand. will have direct payments made, i.e. EUR 10.3 billion, i.e. 88% We'll transfer the funds. For today, once again I would like to stress this, is 83% farmers, EUR 9.4 billion, 65% of the envelope. In the near future, i.e. the first or second week of April, it will be 88% farmers. This is the first case. Here's another thing. We have a special non-interest-free instrument for those who do not want to wait for another month or for the next two to three weeks, it is already functioning - a non-interest-free loan. And he's functioning, farmers don't complain. As far as staff changes are concerned, I would like to stress that this concerns only a few percent of the agency's staff. Remember that at the agency - I worked at the agency, I was an ordinary employee, I was also a director - it concerns a few percent and there is such a thing as replacements, there is such a thing as a second pair of eyes. The system and functionality will not be disturbed in any way. Just give me one example where it doesn't work, it's as if we can confirm it together. What is more, I would like to refer to things that were completely incomprehensible to me, that so far the money had been transferred in November and December. I would like to remind you that this is not possible in November, and it has never been passed on to farmers under the scheme before in 2007. They were in advance. It's like the first one. This year more advances were made when we realized that the system would not operate from 1 December - by 1.4 million. This is also in the information, this can also be confirmed - by 1.4 million more funds. I want to say more. The system has been in operation since December and - I checked it today - since December we have a statutory obligation to pay by 30 June. There aren't any, the European Commission wouldn't have reimbursed us if we hadn't kept up with certain deadlines. There was just a problem with the election promises. The problem was another, among other things. The writings, because we can say that there is some bad will on our part, but I have a magazine - I will also be very happy to share them with you. I have already shown this letter from 8 August 2015. As a result of the audit, irregularities have been identified in the exercise of your President and in the supervision of the process of preparing the Agency for the implementation of payments in 2015, including the implementation of the contract. I estimate that supervision was insufficient, in particular when there were signals in the agency about problems with legal implementation of the modification. Insufficient oversight of the Agency's management of the entire course of preparatory work, including the activities undertaken by agency staff within the Steering Committee, required strengthening. The relevant departments involved in preparing the Agency for the correct and timely execution of payments have not previously indicated that there are any problems here. Once again, these are the results of the audit and letter from Minister Sawicki to President Gross of August 2015. That's the first thing. Second thing. When I took... As the Ministry has full supervision of the agency, on 19th day, on 18th November I had a letter from the agency, decreed by the then president, that the system would not be operational since 1st December. I'd be happy to give that to you, too. Then what was to be done? I'll make it simple. And so the miracle happened that so with the 5-month delay, because in a legal way it can prove that even the 5-month delay, because the tests could not be done because there were errors during the transmission process... What was to be done? Another thing. I would like to remind you that throughout Europe 2015 was the first year of the new payment system. Previous systems were in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. It was the same system, perfected over the next seven years. 2015 was the first year of the new system, a very complicated system. There were 18 types of payments. You should have made a new system and it didn't work because you were too late for it... How many times can we say how many times we have apologized to farmers for the existing state of affairs, how many times have we tried to make such changes in legislation to speed up what is possible? Today, of course, we still have to pay, but always these [[♪ The bell ♪]] The endings, I think April, that the statutory terms are inviolable. Thank you for this opportunity that the wider group has heard about the real causes of the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u15	Thank you very much. Second question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u16	Thank you, Minister. The question will be asked by Mrs Nemś, and I would just like to say thank you for your answer. On the other hand, knowledge is quite large and it is not worth to confront the answer to the question. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u17	Yes, please, Mrs Anna Nemś.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u18	Dear Minister, It is very good that you confirm that the deadlines will be met, because this is the most important thing for us to meet all our commitments by 30 June. It is known that the audit will be carried out later on. The IT system needed to be modified, because in 2015 payments were also introduced. green, right? Similar changes in information systems have been made. Were these changes in the systems so complex and requiring so much... In your view, has this system been so complicated that everything that has happened since you took control of this system has been in such a state that you are unable, however, to meet those deadlines in which farmers have been paid, sorry, payments in previous years?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u19	Thank you very much, Member. Minister Ryszard Zarudzki answers that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u20	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think emotions play a role. Indeed, I repeat, I apologize for this confrontation mode, it was not my intention. On the contrary, I invite you to talk, and I invite you to... I'd like to give you the information in detail. The most important thing is to explain this and the welfare of the farmers to them. And with this, as if, we're trying to face each other. These emotions are moving from this everyday reality, but I wouldn't refer to the fact that they have in this context, here these relationships... As far as the system is concerned, let me remind you, this is a little broader. We are dealing with information systems - I will say the shortest, I would rather just focus on it and not say anything else - with such a little bit of IT terrorism that was involved in this procedure, the issue of investigating certain issues related to the new IT system. That's one thing. Secondly, if he was that complicated, it's hard for me to tell. However, I know that he was much different. I've been watching it in other countries. In France, for example, farmers have been given some payments, and they are also having problems with that right now. Greening. All I know is that we're gonna simplify it when it comes to greening. It was quite difficult, but we found a system that was already adopted, and now we are trying to simplify it as much as possible. That's one thing. Another thing is that the IT systems were built by another company. It was the coalition of that time, the ruling one, that decided that there was one company that had supervised the system for some years, and that new system was built by another company. I would not like to further develop this subject, these are internal matters. For this reason, as you have also stressed, the committee will come, will audit whether payments have been paid in accordance with the rules. The common good for all of us here is a fundamental thing, which does not mean that we cannot explain it and argue about the solutions adopted. At the moment, Commissioner Hogan's intentions are to simplify the greening issue. From this I can conclude, without going into details, that it was quite complicated. That's it. If you need detailed information and have not been provided here by me, I would like to invite you. I am able to share the writing I have, and the detailed information that I have provided in this brief information today, extended by full data that are real and up-to-date. They will be transmitted on an ongoing basis, on the websites of the agencies and ministries. The farmers' community as well as the Members will be informed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the third question asked by Mr Sylwester Khrushcz, the Kukiz club15, on the construction of a fence or other safeguards at the Polish-Ukrainian border in order to prevent further influx of illegal immigrants. This is a question to the President of the Council of Ministers. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u22	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are all watching exactly, we are seeing the situation at the borders of the European Union and within the European Union. The wave of immigrants fell over the winter, but we also saw a year, two years ago, that it was just in the spring, in the summer, that wave was coming back, going up. And now I'm gonna tell you what the facts are. There are already fences at the Hungarian and Slovenian borders that have sealed the European Union from the south and have secured those countries. Today, there is information that Austria has enlarged, expanded controls at its borders and they will be more detailed, will be more categoric. And now there is a gap in the European Union, at the external borders of the European Union, a gap in Poland at the Polish-Ukrainian border. Many specialists, including Frontex, say that another immigrant wave can go that way. I would like to ask if we, as a Polish country, foresee and provide for safeguards. Thank you for the very good answer, Minister, which I received for the interpellation. That's where we're talking about observation towers, extra unmanned aircraft. I'm the only one who thinks that we shouldn't just care about securing borders to catch immigrants, we shouldn't let them in. And this is the harder it is that the border in Bieszczady is very difficult to secure, there we have only 3228 bordermen who are supposed to secure the border, they are working on three shifts. In my opinion, we should think, once, about the fence, maybe about mobile security, maybe about other security features. Because as of today, I think, as well as many specialists, that our border, precisely this border with Ukraine, is not [[♪ The bell ♪]] Secure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u23	Thank you very much, sir. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior and Administration, Mr Jakub Skiba, authorised by the President of the Council of Ministers, answers the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation related to the possibility of an increased influx of immigrants who could attempt to cross the border illegally in the Republic of Poland has long been of particular interest to the Ministry of Interior and Administration and its subordinate services, including, of course, the Border Guard. At the outset, however, I reply to my fellow Member that at the moment we cannot talk about the wave, about the wave of refugees at the Polish-Ukrainian border, but only about trying to test a new migration route. If so, I must say authoritarianly here: These testing attempts do not produce a result, i.e. the fashionable concept of the business model recently, when it comes to smuggling people, so far it has failed in the case of Poland. Two cases were mentioned in your written question: the detention of 8 Iranian citizens and the incidents in the vicinity of the Horyniec-Zdrój in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, when the car, which was driven by 13 illegal immigrants, escaped from the Border Guard, was crashed. I would like to point out that these two cases are individual. The first one took place on January 10, while the second one was on February 20, which means they were almost 6 weeks apart, so they cannot indicate the mass scale of the phenomenon or its intensity. Daily Border Guard reports also do not confirm the creation of a new migration route. We do not observe, I assure you, in this area of increased traffic. What is interesting, the change in weather conditions and the current spring were supposed to influence the increase of the migration movement at the Polish-Ukrainian border, but this was not noted. This means, as I said, that this difficult potential migration route across the Black Sea and further across Ukraine simply has not functioned so far. At the same time, I would like to assure you that the agencies of the Border Guard protecting the eastern border of Poland, which is at the same time the external border of the European Union and the Schengen area, are adequately prepared for increased attempts to cross the state border contrary to the applicable legislation by groups of illegal immigrants. Both the completion of individual Border Guard facilities and departments, as well as their equipment, allow for the full implementation of statutory tasks in the field of state border protection. In order to prevent criminal offences, the state border shall be continuously monitored using various modern means. The systematic provision of border services with more and better tools to combat border crime increases the effectiveness of this formation both at and outside border crossing points. Common patrols with border officers of neighbouring countries, including at the external border of the European Union, including, of course, the state border with Ukraine, are one of the important forms of state border protection. Cooperation with the border guards of Ukraine, including the readmission process, is an important element of this assurance. I would also like to emphasise this aspect of the matter. I have recently had an opportunity to meet with the chief of border guards of Ukraine, Mr. Gen. Nazarenka. It was a very good conversation. Ukraine, which is deeply interested in continuing to discuss visa waivers with the European Union, is trying to do its job very carefully. Of course, both General Nazarenko and all the other officers at the meetings stress that the issue of readmission is being implemented by Ukraine, which means that here we have a very good climate of cooperation and it will certainly be a very solid defence against any attempt to create such a route. Information provision and exchange activities shall be carried out, inter alia. through mutual contacts between border guards and border services of neighbouring countries. They rely on the daily exchange of statistical data and the transmission of any information likely to affect the protection of the state border or the fluidity of border traffic. This cooperation shall be subject to ongoing evaluation and correction during meetings within the framework of the border representative's apparatus. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I would like to stress that the existing state border protection system is now effective and adapted to current and projected risks. There is therefore currently no need to build a fence. I mean, it's not an idea, it's a cosmic idea, of course, many countries decide to do it, and the matter should quite really be discussed by the government, there's no doubt about this idea, except at the moment the government doesn't see the justification. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to bear such expenses. Of course, in this context this entails huge costs estimated at tens of millions of zlotys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u25	Thank you. Does the Member want to ask another question? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u26	Minister! I just have a question about change. In 2015 we had an amendment to the Law on Border Service, which allows for mechanisms of support by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. And I have a question: Will the Armed Forces agreement continue this year? And if so, because I think it's obvious that yes, is there a common exercise, is there coordination already underway, or is there a service, the Armed Forces know their place, or will they do their job well in case of something? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u27	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u28	Thank you very much. Thank you for that question. The answer is yes, of course. These contacts are laborious and very intense. Of course, what you are talking about is formalising and transferring to a higher level, and, of course, action is being taken this way. At this point, I cannot give an exact date of occurrence, but I stress once again: contacts between the Border Guard and the military are being implemented and have a beneficial effect on both sides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the fourth question. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Ms Marta Golbik, Ms Ewa Lieder and Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club, on the issue of social concern regarding the placement of elements of the missile shield in the village of Redzikowo near Słupska on the basis of an agreement concluded with the Government of the United States of America. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. The question is first asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u30	Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of the article. 195 in conjunction with Article. 192 and 193 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I submit to the Minister a parliamentary request on the issue of social concern in connection with the placement of elements of the missile shield in the village of Redzikowo near Słupska on the basis of an agreement concluded with the Government of the United States of America. The investment related to the installation of the shield is already ongoing. Its shape has changed significantly under the protocol to the so-called. the base agreement signed on 3 July 2010. By its power, the rocket shield elements were extended by radar, in short AN/SPY-1D, which was originally to be located in the Czech Republic. Minister, the question is fundamental, because whenever I am in Słupsk, and I am very often, so often you can see very much concern of people, the media. They say that politicians sort of forgot about them, that this Slupsk is, however, within the borders of the Republic. They're very poorly informed about what's going to happen next. Therefore, I have two basic questions. Are you prepared to meet with the inhabitants of Słupsk and the region in order to resolve their doubts, because this concern is really big? And do you, for example? could a meeting of the National Defence Committee in Słupsk be held in advance, during which members would be aware of the scale of concern? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u31	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Minister Bartłomiej Grabski, will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you so much for asking. With regard to the answer to this basic question, whether the Ministry of National Defence, the Minister of National Defence, consults this and to what extent it is in contact with the inhabitants of Słupsk, in the interpelation of the Member and in the reply to it, the Ministry of National Defence informed that he is in constant contact with the local authorities of Slupsk. This cooperation, in our opinion, is working well. With regard to the work related to the preparation for the construction of the base, the Member probably meant those works which the Polish party is doing, related to the preparation for the proper start of the construction of the base in Redzikow. In order to launch it, regular working visits were carried out by representatives of the Ministry of National Defence, which allowed the doubts of local authorities to be resolved. During these meetings we strive to explain the specific requirements related to the implementation of this important investment for the security of Poland and NATO as a whole, while at the same time pointing to potential opportunities and benefits for the local community. As far as the benefits of building a base in Redzików are concerned, the region will certainly achieve such benefits. We assume that the base staff will make extensive use of the social service base. Local workers should find employment in the database as well as in the construction of the database. In order to familiarize Polish entrepreneurs with the possibilities to participate in tenders, meetings are also organised during the industrial days, where opportunities concerning the development of the region are presented. Recently, real estate has also been transferred near the base for the expansion of the staggering economic zone. As regards the concern expressed by the Member concerning radar, at this stage I cannot clearly provide information on what kind of radar it will be. The U.S. site didn't provide that information either. As regards security, I would like to assure you that security is still being taken into account and monitored. A similar type of radar has been operating for several years in the United States in Moorestown, a school and a shopping centre are within walking distance of it. There was neither an increase in electromagnetic radiation nor any other negative influence on society. With regard to the use of the area around the base in Redzików, construction restrictions have been detailed - I hope - explained in response to the interpellation. I think that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u33	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you a further question, sir. Mr Grzegorz Furgo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u34	Thank you very much. Minister, I don't deny that you're dating local government. What I'm saying is, are we able to -- specifically, my two questions are about meeting with the residents. I'm helping you, believe me. I'm talking about the people themselves, not the authorities. Is it possible, if not the committee... Although Slupsk is a pretty city and nothing would have happened if it had once been done there by the National Defence Commission's meeting and got it over with, and done with. Believe me, there's really great concern. That information doesn't get through the way you think. I would ask you to consider making a meeting in Słupsk in the near future. I'm really very favorable, and I can be very helpful in this meeting, and once we get it over with, because I'm flooded with these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u35	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u36	Thank you very much, sir, for your interest. I think I will be briefing the Minister on his request to hold an away committee meeting in the near future. We will also be in touch with Mr Jach, and I think we will try to clarify this in the near future. As regards contacts with the inhabitants of Słupsk, I will also try to give a written answer to the question asked in the near future. [[Thank you very much, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to question five. The question is asked by Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party, on the need to build airfields of the Emergency Service at hospital emergency units. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u38	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, In accordance with the provisions that will apply from January 2017, in order for the hospital rescue unit to operate, it is necessary for it to have a 24-hour landing or landing site located at such a distance that it is possible to accept persons who are in a state of emergency health risk, without specialized means of sanitary transport, and in the absence of technical possibilities for the construction of the landing site in the hospital area, the time of transport may not exceed 5 minutes. According to forecasts by the Polish County Association, even 150 hospitals throughout Poland may be wound up in hospital rescue units in 2017, because these hospitals are not prepared for the entry into force of a regulation imposing a mandatory requirement to have a 24-hour landing site. In order to meet the requirements, a large investment is needed, for which the counties do not have a fully guaranteed budget. It is particularly important for me that the health safety of the inhabitants of Kępiński County, where we are facing this problem. Minister, is the Ministry considering changing the date of entry into force of the regulation on hospital rescue and mandatory launch of airfields at the SORs since January 2017? Is it also true that hospitals that fail to build landing sites will lose their ability to have hospital emergency services, which will result in a lack of contracts with the National Health Fund? And if not, are there any possible consequences? And does the Ministry of Health have resources that can be transferred to the construction of adequate infrastructure? I don't think I'm gonna be able to ask more questions precisely right now, so I'm gonna allow myself another question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u39	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Marek Tombarkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and At the beginning, I wanted to point out that the requirement for hospital emergency services to have a landing site was already laid down in the Health Minister's Regulation of 10 May 2002, and that all healthcare providers who had a hospital rescue unit in their structures had 14 years to adapt the infrastructure to the requirements. At the same time, there were two competitions in the perspective of EU funds for the period 2007 and 2013 in which it was possible to obtain funds from PO IiŚ for the creation of a landing site at the SOR. One contest was dedicated to modernization and the creation of hospital rescue units with landing sites, and the other was dedicated only to the creation of landing sites near the SORs, and therefore these possibilities for obtaining funds were. Today is the end, today is the deadline for drawing conclusions from the new EU allocation, including the modernisation of hospital emergency units, including the creation of landing sites - both ground and elevated landing sites. As of today, 144 SORs at 220 have airfields, 64%. Therefore, it is not that 150 SORs may lose their contract. If we assume that in the current competition financial resources can be obtained - I assume - about 35 SORs, this number of SOR landing sites can increase to 180 by 220. Therefore, this interest rate is really good. The fact is that if the hospital emergency department fails to comply with the requirements of the 2011 health minister's regulation, the last regulation which treats the requirements of the hospital emergency department and the conditions of the order of the President of the NFZ may lose such a contract and can then be financed under the same conditions as the emergency room. On the other hand, given the major problems that have been affecting us due to the lack of landing sites, we have carried out a thorough analysis since January of the number of flights, both emergency flights and air transports carried out by the Air Emergency Service, and we are now carrying out such a very deep analysis. The conclusions will only be published when the proposals for funding submitted in the current competition have been examined. If it turns out that the number of applications submitted will increase the number of landing sites by about 30, which we assume... From this analysis it can already be seen that in some places there are very few both rescue flights and these air transports. We will therefore make final decisions. On the other hand, studies are currently underway regarding the abolition of the obligation of a hospital rescue unit to have this landing site.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u42	Thank you very much. Yes, Minister, in fact, a modern rescue unit was also built in the Kępin County in 2012, equipped with medical equipment. In 2015, the institution was accredited on the basis of the provisions of 6 November 2008 on health accreditation. It is also applying for support under the Operational Programme for Infrastructure and the environment. However, we know that in the current form the criteria for selecting projects have been tightened so that only large medical entities with hospital emergency services and high-specialist units can apply for funding. County hospitals have practically been deprived of the possibility of applying for funding. Does the Minister foresee any changes to the criteria of this project? Will there possibly be additional resources? And I would like to ask you to clarify whether, if mandatory possession is lifted, launch of the landing site, however, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hospital emergency teams will lose any extra... Will there be the same funding criteria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u43	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! About whether or not they're gonna be there. In general, the competition we are now talking about was launched in November last year and therefore, in fact, these conditions for assessing applications were rather targeted at hospitals more specialised, i.e. those that have more high-specialist branches, because there are additional points in the assessment. However, this absolutely does not preclude the possibility for county hospitals to obtain funds from this competition. This will be more difficult, but only, I think, next week will be a preliminary analysis of the proposals submitted, we will know what is the scale of the problem, how many applications have been submitted, what units and to what extent - whether it was just S.O.R.s or S.R.s with landing sites - and for what amounts. After this analysis, if we consider that there is indeed a big problem with obtaining funds for county hospitals, for SORs in county hospitals, we will be considering the possibility of launching an additional competition for the modernisation of hospital emergency services. This will probably be possible due to the possibility of obtaining an additional 6-percent allocation in case of good performance of competitions carried out under the OP IiŚ by the Ministry of Health. As far as funding is concerned, the National Health Fund already a few years ago developed an algorithm setting the financial rate for the daily readiness of a hospital emergency unit, which consists of two elements. The first element is infrastructure. This is where the equipment is assessed, which is the minimum necessary laid down in the regulation of the Minister of Health, including the possession of a landing site. The second element of this algorithm is related to functionality, i.e. the number of staff, the number of patients who are admitted there. The shift in assessment, including an algorithm of any element, results in a change in the daily readiness rate, which is determined for at least one year. Therefore, if it is amended, the lifted landing requirement, on the basis of an algorithm that has been in force for perhaps 4 or 5 years, it may appear that the daily readiness rate will be minimally lower. On the other hand, this does not prejudice this change absolutely, because the rescue department can increase its valuation by increasing the number of benefits provided to patients. [[Your Marshal, could I? Minister, one more brief question.]] If you don't mind, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u45	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u46	Minister, I wanted to ask: What is your assessment as Minister of Health regarding the implementation of elevated landing sites located on hospital buildings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u47	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! I am an intern, I am a specialist in emergency medicine, for several years I have been a voivodship consultant and I believe that the creation of an elevated landing site, i.e. on the roof, is a last resort. This should only be realized if there is no possibility of creating a ground landing site. The ground landing is mainly cheaper in the creation, because the average cost, according to our data, amounted to about 1.8 million, while many applications were made, many such landings were realized for less than PLN 1 million. Landing elevated is the amount from PLN 4 to even PLN 8 million. There's a huge difference. If there is a very small number of rescue flights and transports in the hospital, these expenditures are disproportionate to the benefits. Here this cost effective indicator is just... There's absolutely no point in creating this. So wherever you can create, you have to create ground landing sites. Only when you can't, and there's a necessity, such as. in trauma centers or in the SOR high-specialist centers located in the city centers, the creation of an elevated landing ground is most appropriate. An additional element, which most people unfortunately forget, is the cost of annual construction reviews of such elevated landing sites, which range from 30 to 60 thousand. zł.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u49	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Yes, thank you. Let's move on to question six. The question is asked by Ewa Malik, Waldemar Dandzel and Dariusz Starzyński from the Law Club... Dandzel, I am so sorry, sir, Mr Dariusz Starzyński, club Law and... [[Andzel.]] [[It's old-fashioned.]] Awful nervous right now. ...on strategy and resolution program for Regional Specialist Hospital No. 5 St. Barbara in Sosnowiec due to the threat of losing the status of the trauma center. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Please, the question is asked by Mrs Ewa Malik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u50	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are asking a question about a strategy of operation for the coming years of Regional Specialist Hospital No. 5 in Sosnowiec in connection with worrying information from both patients and hospital staff regarding the obvious problems of the directorate in hospital management, current staff problems and lack of resources for current operations. Staff and patients have been waiting for years to improve equipment with the necessary means for work - personal protective equipment, medicines, diagnostic kits, equipment necessary for the operation of hospital departments. A common practice in this hospital is the demonstration, even the palace equipment of some branches using huge financial expenditures, while some branches are facing literally basic problems. An important problem is the ever worse working atmosphere, especially in some branches, among others. I mean the S.O.R. and orthopedics, but that also applies to other departments. This situation has led to internal conflicts and consequently to the departure of recognised professionals. The escalation of the conflict in the hospital rescue unit, which is the reason for the dismissal of medical workers, has now led to the situation that today there is a huge problem with the on-call and current staff of the SOR. There are days when the medical staff is incompatible with the requirements of the National Health Fund for the trauma centre. From 1 April 2016, practically the SOR remains without medical staff. We therefore have two fundamental questions for the Minister. Are Voivodship Specialist Hospital No. 5 in Sosnowiec [[♪ The bell ♪]] meets the criteria of the trauma centre, the activation of which was a condition for obtaining huge financial resources for renovation, including, inter alia, Airports? How do we explain in times of staff crisis among specialist doctors the departure of many people, resulting in the lack of the necessary personnel to meet the requirements of the trauma centre? Specialists are switched by random persons, residents are forced to stay on duty within the S.R. Do you know what's going on in this hospital?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u51	Thank you very much, Member. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Marek Tombarkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Trauma center, as well as the whole hospital St. Barbary in Sosnowiec is not a subsidiary of the Ministry of Health. The formation body is the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodship and therefore the Ministry of Health cannot interfere directly with the creation of both strategies and corrective plans. So far, until yesterday, no information has been received about the trauma center's problems. After the question was asked, I personally called the Director of Medical Affairs at this hospital, who informed that the operation of the hospital emergency department was not at risk, that there was a full cast and that staff requirements were met, because in the hospital emergency department they could be on duty and work the system doctors, which is a broader concept than the doctor of emergency medicine. On the other hand, since 1 April there are no specialists in emergency medicine, and this is the limit condition of the functioning of the trauma center. The 2010 Ordinance of the Minister of Health on Trauma Centres clearly states that the trauma centre must have a trauma team based on a medical specialist in emergency medicine. Therefore, a 24-hour presence of an emergency medicine specialist is required. Such necessary minimum, resulting from the order of the President of the NFZ with regard to the requirements, refers to the necessity, in the case of employment, of at least 3.75 posts of an emergency medicine specialist. Therefore, today's information shows that the trauma centre does not comply with the requirements of the health minister's regulation. Therefore, it will not be able to account for procedures according to codes T01 to T09, i.e. emergency procedures. The trauma centre has been operating there since 2009. Last year, it helped 156 people, which is to say that every other day there is one patient eligible for treatment in the trauma center. Therefore, of course, the absence of these emergency medicine specialists is a huge problem of strict sense for the trauma center, for the hospital emergency department - no, it can still function. According to the information that I was able to obtain yesterday, in mid-April there will be the first emergency medicine specialist to organize the whole team again in the next 2 and 3 months, i.e. the employment of at least four emergency medicine specialists. From the information I was able to obtain, it appears that actually through certain animosities or interpersonal conflicts there has been a departure of well-known doctors of emergency medicine, while unfortunately we cannot interfere here. After this information we will be attending the National Health Fund to carry out an inspection at this trauma center, so as to check how it works today. As far as the funds obtained from the previous financial perspective for the creation of a trauma centre are concerned, they were measures With PO IiŚ, it is of course an obligation to maintain the sustainability of the proposal over a period of 5 years. If there is a situation that the trauma centre will not function for a long period of time or will not be able to function at all, because it will not find these doctors, then we will act in order in administrative mode for clarification and then for the return of the part which corresponds to the period when the trauma centre does not function in relation to the period of 5 years of durability of the application. On the other hand, as far as other issues relating to other branches are concerned, we are not a party here. These are internal matters of the hospital management, which, as I say, falls under the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u53	Thank you very much. I ask you, Madame, for the next question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u54	I would like to refer to your statement. Minister, we are satisfied that if it turns out that this hospital cannot actually function as a trauma center, you will try to obtain information about what really contributed to this very bad situation, because this is a hospital, it can be said, of strategic importance. This hospital in your time, Professor Religion, was supposed to be in a network of hospitals, this basic network of hospitals, which are supposed to provide care to all residents, especially from the Silesian voivodeship. Therefore, this is a very important issue for us. Thank you for doing this... because, apparently, there will be this check and notification to the National Health Fund about this very damaging hospital. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the situation and, above all, the risk to patients that they will not receive this primary care related to the trauma centre. We thank you very much for this and we keep the Minister here for his word that this check will be carried out because these conflicts in the hospital, not just related to the staff, are really very much, there was no time to mention them here. So that I ask you to be interested simply in this particular situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u55	Thank you very much, Member. Would the Minister like to address this further? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u56	Of course, like I said, we'll take an interest in it. For us, creating a network of trauma centers is extremely important. Currently we have 14 centers and we plan to allocate funds for three additional ones, including the second one in the Silesian Voivodeship, in Częstochowa, due to the conditions of the Silesian agglomeration. Trauma centres are a very important element of the system of State Medical Rescue. Hospitals could get big money, and we're not gonna let it get wasted. On the other hand, the general problem of the State Medical Rescue system is a very small number of emergency medicine specialists, so we are trying to do our best to reverse this bad tendency. I'm sure it's about the trauma center at St. Barbara in Sosnowiec will intervene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The seventh question is asked by Members Wojciech Zięniak and Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club, on the Krotoszyn, Zdun and Cieszykowa ring road 15 - to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. The first question is asked by Wojciech Zietniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have the following question concerning plans to build a bypass of cities in southern Wielkopolska in the Krotoszyński County, i.e. Krotoszyn, Zdun and Cieszykowa, along the national road number 15. The obligation to build it was included in the agreement concluded between the local authorities and the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways of 21 November 2009. On the other hand, the national road construction programme for 2014-2023 is not included in the project. The perimeter was also not included in the territorial contract signed by the authorities of the Wielkopolska Voivodship with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. The lack of a ring road in the Krotoszyński County is a major communication problem. No road or highway was planned in the vicinity of Krotoszyn. Local authorities draw attention to the serious communication difficulties for residents resulting from the passage of national roads through the county cities, which accept all the cumbersome traffic. There are no high-speed routes that would make it easier to communicate with this region of Wielkopolska. In addition, the technical condition of the national road No 15 is deteriorating mainly due to the intensive cross-border traffic (the southern west-to-north East of Poland). Hence the reaction of local authorities to the failure to include in the project the National Road Construction Programme for the years 2014-2023. The ring road Krotoszyn, Zdun and Cieszykowa along the national road No. 15. In view of the above, we would like to ask: Are there plans for construction in the Ministry of Infrastructure regarding the ring road of these cities? Are the dates for the possible start of the investment known? And, using the opportunity, we would also like to ask you about plans to build the Koźmin Wielkopolski ring road, which also lies in the Krotoszyński district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u59	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Kazimierz Smolinski, will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, About the questions of Mr Zdun, Mr Cieszyn and Mr Krotoszyn. As Members themselves have said, these are not bypasses included in the national road construction plan - the previous government has not included them. These agreements, which you are talking about, are only concluded with a local government that does not build these roads, so it is difficult... They are, moreover, agreements that talk about a certain preparation of investments, but absolutely do not oblige the government party to implement them. But that's not the problem. During the creation of investment lists it was established, especially as regards projects consisting in the construction bypass of the town, that priority investments are bypasses located on express roads, tasks included in territorial contracts and circumvention of places with over-normative traffic, especially transit traffic. On the other hand, the bypasses you speak of do not meet these criteria. This is probably why neither the national road construction plan nor the territorial contract of the previous government were included. We did not correct this plan, as you know, so it is difficult to predict that they will be implemented at the moment, all the more so that there are 56 bypasses in the road construction plan that meet the criteria I was just talking about. In this case, both Zdun, Cieszykowa and Krotoszyn are not in the expressway, and as far as the traffic you are talking about is not transit traffic, it is only local traffic. On access to and from Krotoszyn, e.g. on national road No 15, the total load on motor vehicles during the day shall not exceed 7 000. vehicles, while the national average is 10,000. vehicles. Although these studies are a few years ago and we are looking forward to the results of the 2015 General Traffic Measurement Surveys, but we do not expect, as far as we know, a significant increase in this movement to exceed at least this national average, the 10,000. vehicles. Of course, we realise that this is a problem for the local community, while some priorities must be adopted. These priorities have been adopted by the previous government and will also be implemented by the current government, but this probably requires legal changes if we want to make these investments in some way. You also know that the programme includes investments, a road construction programme, for almost 200 billion, while the EU funds are only 107 billion, so almost 90 billion or more than 90 billion are missing. We will do everything to ensure that the roads included in the plan are realized. If it turns out that over the next few years these budget revenues will increase sufficiently so that the investments included in the plan can be implemented and possibly increased, then probably such investments can be realised. For today, to be honest, objectively, the possibilities of this type of road are rather small. As you can see, we currently do not have the resources to implement those already covered by the investment plans, let alone those which have not been taken into account by the previous government. However, I assure you that these investments will be analysed in the light of the results of the new overall traffic measurement and the possible financial commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u61	Thank you very much. The second question is asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u62	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Maybe for your government, not for your previous government? That's where I'd like to start. Let's talk about the case, not about when, which term of office of the Sejm, when which government started and which ended, because there is a case to be solved. Firstly, I would like to point out that measuring the movement at the exit from Krotoszyn is not a good idea because Krotoszyn lies at the intersection of two national roads: 15 and 36. And I think the people of southern Wielkopolska know that not at the exit from Krotoszyn, but at the center where both roads cross, there is a huge problem. The data you gave is from 2010, if I'm familiar with 7,000. on the exit from Krotoszyn, so let's try to figure out how much it is in 2015. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the meantime, there have been very serious economic changes, including: on the fact that Mahle now has two powerful factories in neighbouring cities, in Krotoszyn and Ostrów, which generates a huge traffic of heavy transport. And the Kozmin ring road. The Agreement was signed in 1996. It's not eight years, it's 20 years. Minister, I'd like to ask. With such great freedom, you said that agreements are signed, that there is no obligation on the part of the general management or government in these agreements. It is easy to sign at a time when there are commitments to spending often powerful money from local government budgets. Kozmin is an old town, but small, with a small budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u63	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u64	Yes, I'm almost done, Marshal. It spent PLN 0.5 million on the implementation of this agreement. There will be serious technical problems when the old sewerage collapses under the current national road no. 15. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u65	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u66	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Speaker! Of course, it was just a digression that was accepted by the previous government. We want to face this problem. That is why I am saying that we are waiting for the results of the measurement of road traffic, which in the next month, I think, will come - those related to the research of this traffic from the previous year - but, as the Member himself said, you are talking more about local problems, while the bypasses are primarily designed to solve transit problems. There's no transit traffic here and there's no access to... I'm talking about what are the rules that apply to us today. If we wanted to make some changes, we would need both legal changes and technical changes. Some things we do, it is also a contractual forum, and the issue of financing, we are considering various possibilities for legal and financial solutions concerning the current and new sources of funding of the National Road Fund. But, objectively speaking, it must be said that in the case of those bypasses that are included in the plan, the transit problems are greater than in the case of those you speak of. As I said, we will lean on the problem if we get the results of new traffic research, except that the research is always related to transit traffic, not to local traffic, because that's the basis for the construction of bypasses. This is a solution that has been in force for many years. The previous government didn't change it either. We are not able to make this change at the moment either, because we would have to turn the idea of the National Road Construction Programme over properly. However, he has some priorities that I have talked about, and they must be implemented. If, after these tests, one of these bypasses meets the requirements, it will probably be easier to finance it. As the Member himself said, local governments have signed it many years ago, local governments are pushing it, and we understand it. They spend money, for some it's bigger, for others it's less money, but it's just the resources involved in preparing the investment. On the other hand, implementation must take place through the national budget, and with this National Road Fund budget, you know exactly what it is like. [[It's okay.]] It's so good that we have a 50% security, so if that's okay, then you can say it's okay. Perhaps, according to your fellow Members, this is good, in our view, not good. First, we have to do what's in the program. In a moment there will be a question about Via Carpatia's way, and she is also included in the international road network, etc. and there is a lack of resources for implementation. I must say that there are also some priorities that we must pursue. The Union obliges us to carry out the corridors, while we tell the European Commission that we do not carry out the international corridors, and we carry out the bypasses, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it's a local problem. I understand that this is a local problem, but we need to adopt certain priorities. It must be understood by Members and Local Environments that, if not in this perspective, we will be implementing this from our own resources after the end of this perspective. The Polish State does not evade the implementation of such investments, but both have certain formal requirements and is the issue of including this in the plans. There's nothing else I can add here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to question eight. The question is asked by Dariusz Piontkowski, Kazimierz Moskal, Ms Agata Borowiec and Zbigniew Chmielowiec, the Law and Justice Club, on the state of progress and prospects of building the Via Carpatia route in Poland. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. The first question is asked by Mr Dariusz Piontkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You have just mentioned one of the international corridors that run through Poland, the so-called. Via Carpatia, which is to connect the Baltic countries with the Balkan countries, is to run along the eastern border of Poland. In the vast majority this route will coincide with the S19 route. In the southern part, from Lublin to the southern border of Poland - as such it is already documented - preliminary works began and the money is intended for it. The situation is much worse on the northern part of this route Via Carpatia, especially in the Podlasie Voivodeship. There were no documents ready to begin the construction of this route quickly. In addition, serious doubts arise as to the course of this route itself. Local authorities report, through which the Via Carpatia route is to take place, especially in the area north of Białystok. There the Via Carpatia route is to take a bit west of the route, which today connects Białystok directly with Augustów, Suwałki and leads further towards the border with Lithuania. In the current course, this section from Bialystok to Corycin, because it is such a nodal point, it is about 37 km. According to the new route, the new route will have about 50 km. In the region of Podlaskie Voivodeship, we have dealt with such a situation that during the construction of the Augustów ring road the length of the ring road was significantly increased in relation to the originally planned one, from just a few kilometers to more than 20 km. The effect is that a huge part of drivers who can travel on local roads still travels the old route from Augustów to Suwałk, but only tira [[♪ The bell ♪]] they're forced to take this route. Similarly, it can be with this section of the Via Carpatia route north of Białystok. Isn't it worthwhile to work on this section so that this episode is functional at all? All the more so because we are at a very preliminary conceptual stage, because the route Via Carpatia has not yet been finally established in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u69	Thank you very much, sir. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Kazimierz Smolinski, answers the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Poland, together with other countries of Central and Eastern Europe, is involved in the development of the international road path Via Carpatia. Already in 2006, on the initiative of Poland, an international conference was held in Łańcut, then under the patronage of the former president of Łańcut. Professor Lech Kaczyński. Unfortunately, despite the pressure from the Polish side, this whole Via Carpatia road is not included in the core network, and the Union obliges the core network to be completed by 2030. Some of these sections, especially the northern section that you mentioned, are only included in the comprehensive network, which is to be completed by 2050 as required. The government, the general directorate, wants to do everything possible to ensure that the Polish section of Via Carpatia is implemented in this EU perspective. The southern section looks much better: Lublin - the border of the state than the northern section, and especially the one about which Mr Białystok spoke: Białystok towards both Kuźnica Białostocka and the border with Lithuania. There, the planned bypass in the western direction is indeed longer, but probably easier to environmentalize. On the other hand, this section of the express road, which you spoke about, is not yet drawn up. So here really is a big threat to the implementation of these sections. However, as I said, the government is determined to implement the whole Via Carpatia in this EU perspective, if, of course, as I have explained to the Members here, we have enough resources to implement the entire national road construction programme, but this must involve an increase in revenue from the road fund. There are indicators - and they have recently been indicated by the European Union - saying that the national income of Poland is greater than expected. Yes, there is a chance that these revenues will increase, and this, of course, increases the chance for the entire national road construction programme to be implemented. As I said, of course, those episodes of S19 between the state border and Białystok, then there are Lubartów - Białystok, Lubartów - Lublin - Rzeszów - the state border, yet Babica, and thus of course Babica - Barwinek, the section of Grodno - Kuźnica - Sokółka - Korycin is 50 km - it is in preparation. The environmental decision on conditions is foreseen for 2018 at the earliest, and then implementation will only be possible in the years 2020 to 2023. Sokółka - Korycin - here we assume that the decision on environmental conditions can be obtained in 2019, so possible implementation can only take place in the years 2022 to 2024. Korycin - Knyszyn - Dobrzyniewo Wielkie - Choroszcz, it is 37.5 km, it is also in preparation. 21 December 2015 On 3 February 2016, the Commission adopted a decision on environmental conditions for this section. So here it is possible to implement this section in the years 2018 and 2022. On the other hand, Choroszcz - Siemiatycze - Chlebczyn - the border of the Podlaskie Voivodeship is the longest section - 125 km. So here it is also possible to implement at the end of the perspective, i.e. between 2020 and 20202023, of course if all environmental decisions are achieved as in the case of sections located more to the north. I think that's it for this episode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u71	Thank you very much. An additional question? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u72	I will ask some of the questions and some of Mr Moskal. Minister! The problem is that we're at a planning stage. This plan involves building roads in a variant that will be actually non-functional, because many drivers will not use it at all. As I said, in the section Białystok - Korycin we extend it from 37 km to 50 km, in the case of the section Kuźnica through Sokółka, Korycin to Białystok we extend it from less than 60 km to almost 100 km. Therefore, it may be worthwhile to abandon these initial planning work today and even at the expense of extending the deadline a bit. It is in such a way that it will be functional and that will allow us to use this section of Via Carpatia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u73	Please, Mr Moskal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Very briefly, Minister, because you mentioned the European Union, that Via Carpatia is not a priority here. Could you say, "Did the Members of the European Parliament deal with this problem? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What was their attitude because, as far as I know, some Members were very resistant to this subject? Which of the countries of the European Union will the earliest perform these sections of Via Carpatia in their territory? Do you have that information? When are we gonna do this? By 2050, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u75	Thank you very much. The question is answered by Minister Kazimierz Smolinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u76	Thank you again, Marshal. First, complete the answer to Mr Piontkowski's question. As for this section, which you are talking about, this bypass, which is to be a longer section, is not a problem. I don't think that's a problem, because it's going to be implemented by Via Baltica and I think she's going to relieve S61. She, according to road experts, will relieve this section that he spoke about: just between Białystok and Korycin. So here's the solution. The longer segment will not cause less traffic, because S61, which is also a priority, because this is Via Baltica, which will first be implemented, in our opinion will relieve it. On the other hand, answering Mr Moskal's questions, which is to say to Mr Kazimierz Moskal, I would like to say that at the moment there is a large mobilisation in the European Parliament of Members of all countries through which Via Carpatia runs, so that the whole section in all countries is in such a situation as the Polish section and there are other countries in the south, where not all sections of this road are included in the core network. Everyone's determined. Indeed, until now, it is simply visible, there was a certain reluctance on the Polish side - but also in Europe it was visible - to the so-called. The east wall, as it's called, so Via Carpatia was treated a little bit, in a way, in her stepmother's way. At the moment, there is a great deal of determination both for Members of the European Parliament and for the countries through which Via Carpatia runs to include all the countries of the core network throughout the network, so that it can be implemented in the first place and to obtain resources for implementation. The southern section of Lublin - Rzeszów will be implemented in the first place, and here is the security of funds, of which there is no doubt, while the section of Rzeszów - Barwinek - the state border is provided in the second order. With regard to the northern section, Lublin - Białystok, this is the best prepared, but indeed the section from Białystok to the north, as Mr Piontkowski said, is the worst prepared, and this is the most difficult one in our view, but, of course, as I said before, the Ministry will do everything to ensure that the entire route through Poland is realized. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to question nine. The question will be asked by Mrs Anna Milczanowska and Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, the Law and Justice Club, on the action taken to support the so-called. social housing. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. The first question is asked by Anna Milczanowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The adoption of the 500+ programme supporting families with offspring through the introduction of mechanisms for granting educational benefits is undoubtedly a great success of the government of Law and Justice, as well as of parliament, and above all of the Polish nation. However, we must not forget that the adoption of the law introducing the 500+ programme was only a first step, or at least one of the first steps towards improving the material and natural conditions of Polish families. In Poland, about 150 thousand are used every year. apartments. This number has been increasing recently, as has the number of permits issued for the construction of residential buildings. However, with this growth, unfortunately, there is no increase in the level of meeting the housing needs of Polish families. The opposite trend can be seen. The reasons why we do not reach a satisfactory level of meeting the housing needs of Polish families can be found - apart from the reduced supply of mortgage loans offered by commercial banks - among others. in the prices of apartments offered on both the primary and secondary markets. According to GUS data, the price of 1 m2 of usable residential space put into service in 2015 was around 4 thousand. zł. However, the actual cost of purchasing an apartment may be much higher. Thus, despite the good construction industry in Poland, there is still a significant percentage of families who cannot afford to realize the dream of owning their own apartment. The solution to this problem could be support for social, municipal construction, which would enable housing to be built at significantly lower prices. In view of the above, I am addressing the Minister with questions. If and when the Ministry intends to take action to support the so-called. Social housing? What mechanisms are planning to introduce the Ministry to increase the availability of cheaper housing for Polish families?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u79	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Minister Kazimierz Smolinski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, To answer your questions, I would like to say that the Ministry is preparing a national housing programme. The questions raised concern areas which will particularly affect the effectiveness of the government's main priority of helping households with average and low incomes to meet housing needs. The aim set before the Ministry means a major reorganisation of housing policy and the allocation of public funds. In the assessment of the Ministry, the increased supply of affordable housing should stimulate a number of different instruments and forms of activity in the housing market. In our view, priority should be given to supporting the housing segment: The development of the housing market for rentals, which involves moving away from support mainly so-called. residential property. Poland has one of the highest rates of housing ownership in Europe, probably only Hungary is ahead of us. In Poland about 84% housing is owned by citizens, in Hungary this rate exceeds 90% but we also know the Hungarians' problems related to this issue, among others. the issue of loans, the huge debt of society. We believe that instruments should also be implemented to support different forms of activity in the housing market in order to increase the availability of housing in Poland. These are: firstly, an increase in the offer of apartments for medium earners as part of the financial social support for rent-free housing, secondly, an adjustment of housing cooperatives' activities to the current housing sector conditions, allowing for the full exploitation of the potential of housing cooperatives in the management of existing housing resources and in the creation of new resources, then an increase in the offer of housing for low earners as part of the continuation with certain modifications of municipal financial support, a sustained increase in the supply of rental housing in the property investigation scheme and the preparation of good law that takes into account the identified problems and open to the actual needs of social groups, and a basis for stable long-term financing of housing investments, including. through housing funds, which on the one hand generate funds for construction, and on the other hand create a permanent saving mechanism, which also has a good impact on both the banking system and the economy as a whole. The fact that the number of apartments for rent should be increased is confirmed by these indicators, which I mentioned, because with such a large number of apartments owned by citizens in Poland, there is actually around 4% on the commercial market. Apartments, i.e. practically no housing market in Poland. If there is, then a few percent - 4% .5% That's how it's estimated, so he's not here. Here undoubtedly you need to do everything to increase this number of apartments for rent. Although this will also involve changing certain habits and mentality of Poles, all those who wanted property after the communist system's reaction, and here at times this property became a curse, in a situation where someone who was not wealthy received an apartment for proverbial gold, and always property is associated with costs and then many citizens, owners are unable to maintain these apartments. On the other hand, if we increase the number of apartments for rent, one consequence is, of course, that this is a lower burden, and the other is that we are also increasing the mobility of citizens who, as part of the search for work, can change this apartment if, of course, it is the situation that I am going to another city and there I have an apartment to rent, there are no such situations at the moment, or I am borrowing. Here, of course, what you have been talking about, which is the high unit costs of building a square meter, is that there are no apartments for rent. On the other hand, this makes these rents high and the difference between the hire itself and the repayment of the loan is so small that most citizens decide to borrow. Except, of course, even if the difference is small, the consequences are huge, because in a situation where I'm a tenant and I'm losing my job, I'm losing my place. But when I own and lose my job, I lose my place, but I'm still mostly left with this credit that can burden a family for the rest of my life. So here there is no doubt that we want to make this market of renting apartments in Poland bigger. Now, of course, I'm not talking about getting to the situation where our western neighbor is, where this ratio is almost 50:50, 60:40, depends on what period, but the idea is to definitely increase the number of apartments for rent. And if already, it's a question of access to property, which means I don't have a credit, but I get to it by, let's say, we assume, 20 and 30 years, I pay back the value of the apartment, where I lose my ability to pay the liability, then this contract is simply terminated. The owner, whether it's a private investor or a private investor, will settle with me the funds I've paid for this apartment. We assume that this will be a question of reducing the protection of tenants, because then I, buying part of the apartment, become a co-owner, so I'm not a typical tenant, but I can therefore have less protection, because the owner will give me the money that I've paid, so I can rent an apartment on the market in a situation where I'm losing it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the ability to repay it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, the additional question is asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u82	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In relation to the Minister's reply, I ask for clarification, because if the Ministry will help, we already know, while when the Ministry is considering amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, among others. by abolishing the so-called. the inheritance of tenants' dwellings or the introduction of the possibility to enter into lease contracts for premises located in a public fixed-term housing stock. This could encourage municipalities to invest in rentals in the first place. Their construction would support families who, for various reasons, would be interested in renting apartments at lower prices than free market prices. This would reduce the lack of social housing in municipalities and thus contribute to the increase in municipal income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u83	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u84	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! The government is currently preparing a revision of the law in this area. We really want to introduce a mechanism whereby local governments can verify the income of municipal tenants. At the moment, the situation is that the local government determines the financial conditions, as if this threshold of entry or entitlement to the municipal premises, and after obtaining this legal title there is no instrument to verify the tenant's income, and it often happens that this tenant starts to earn more, becomes rich, often acquires a second apartment, truth or property, and still has the right to occupy the tenant's premises together with what the Member has said, i.e. inheriting this lease. So we want to bring it in this year. This project is included in the government's list of legislative work, so that this year he will enter the proceedings, this project will be submitted to the High House as a government project to allow verification. This is, of course, a matter for discussion as to the effect of this verification. In our opinion, there may be two consequences. If, in the case of someone after verification, they consider that they do not have a municipal place, there may be two effects. One is that there will be a need to pay the market rent, then the local government will get more revenue. The second effect is the loss of residence rights. Of course, this second effect is quite difficult in society, because we still assume that this person is already wealthy, but often exceeding the rights is small, that does not mean that this person is able to acquire an apartment in the free market. So that here, I think, it's rather socially more acceptable that a person like that, if she lost her right to a communal establishment, would have to pay the rent. On the other hand, when it comes to inheritance, of course, if this heir does not have the authority, he did not have it, then his heir He shouldn't have those powers either. But it may be that this heir is in such a financial situation that this entitlement will be granted him. So here we're going to have to take into account the different situations of life that happen, so it's unlikely that the result of losing the right to occupy the communal premises will be eviction. It seems to me that it would be more appropriate to charge this tenant with market rent, which will also benefit the municipalities, because they will start to earn higher incomes and with these funds they will be able to invest, but it will often be so that the tenant of the municipal premises in a situation where he will pay the market rent for the premises, which is not attractive enough, will probably give up. In this context, there will certainly be vacant premises in this situation. Someone's gonna rent it for the same money, the money, the place on the market, and that municipal place is gonna be fired. So that this year, this project will surely be under discussion by the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the tenth question. The question is asked by Barbara Bartus and Bogdan Rzońc, Law and Justice, which is on the restructuring of Exalo Drilling SA and worrying information concerning the liquidation of the Libusz warehouse and hardware base and the Exalo Drilling SA Jasło branch, which would result in another loss of jobs in the Gorlicki and Jasielsk district. The question is addressed to the treasure minister. The first question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The area of the Gorlicki district where I live is rich in oil, natural gas. It was in this area that the world's first oil mine in Siara was established, and in 1872 Count Adam Skrzyński founded the first refinery of kerosene in Libya. Gorlice, being the cradle of the oil industry, concentrated many plants associated with this industry. At the end of the second half of the 19th century. Gorlice became the central hub of the oil industry. Mine, refineries and industrial plants were built on a massive scale. The largest number of oil mines were owned by Countess Jadwiga Straszewska in Lipinki, where I live, and Count Adam Skrzyński in Libuszy. Two world wars are for our region, for our territory a lot of destruction, but in the post-war period the industry on Gorlice was rebuilt. In the '60s and '70s. 20th century Gorlice was a significant industrial and cultural centre. The gorillas were vibrant. The cop himself hired a few thousand people. Unfortunately, the last 8 years of the Civic Platform and PSL governments are the liquidation of industry in my territory. This started with the SLD when, at the beginning of 2005, the bankruptcy declared Glimar refinery and then options, financial difficulties of Glinik, further redundancies. My two previous terms in the Sejm are repeated appearances to save what's left. I have performed many times in defense of the Lipinka mine, the oil mine, which last year was effectively destroyed by the previous crew. Now I have conflicting information, I don't know what's next. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, however, I am acting on the envisaged restructuring of Exalo Drilling SA, which is going again to make organisational changes. This could end tragically again for my land, and especially for the base in Libya, where, as expected, redundancies may occur. It would be another job loss in the Gorlicki district, which was once really very industrially developed, and now everything is destroyed. Minister, could you answer the real plans of this company, and can we count on the Libyan base to be maintained? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u87	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Mr Filip Grzegorczyk will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! She began to speak so beautifully about history. Very well, because history is important, and it's still in our memories. However, if you don't mind, let me outline a context. It is such that the company that you are asking about, namely Exalo Drilling SA, is a subsidiary, 100% PGNiG. It is undoubtedly a leading company in the mining sector, leading in Central and Eastern Europe. However, it must be said that we have recently recorded a drop in oil prices, which caused the search to be abandoned, from the activities of shale gas companies, Chevron Poland, ConocoPhillips, and therefore a difficult situation occurred in the drilling roar. That's what you have to say, because that's the context of this situation. Of course, Exalo Drilling performed many contracts for PGNiG, Orlen Upstream, Chevron Polska Energy Resources, FX Energy Poland in its history in 2013. The company also carried out specific work abroad - this expansion is quite significant - in Egypt and Slovakia, in the Czech Republic, Georgia, Uganda, Ethiopia, and even in Pakistan and Kazakhstan. Nevertheless, it must be said that this company was created through consolidation. The consolidation carried out within this company was what it was. Restructuring is always difficult, but in the case of this company it was conducted in such a way that today it faces certain difficulties. That, too, needs to be said openly. Exalo Drilling is not a company with a great position, financial situation. Despite 3 years of operation of this company - because it operates so much - property management policy, employment policy generally did not have a positive impact on its development, certainly not so much that today it can be said that there are some prospects for this company. On the other hand, the new management board took action, above all analytical measures, which are intended to guarantee its proper development. So today these actions are taken within the company, because the aim is to build a modern, profitable and properly managed company in all areas of its business. And that's the context. Within this context - I am already answering the question asked by Mrs Libusza - as regards the hardware and storage base in Libya, the company's information shows that this base will continue to be used for the company's operational needs and Exalo Drilling does not intend to liquidate it in an foreseeable perspective. So this is the first assurance I wanted to make. The second point that probably concerns the Member is the Lipinka mine. Here it should be said that PGNiG's activities are adapted on an ongoing basis to the economic conditions that simply exist. This situation today makes Lipinka mine difficult to determine as a highly efficient mine. On the other hand, work is being carried out today, which is aimed at improving the economic efficiency of Lipinka mine, which means that we are working on the maintenance of this company - or this branch - and not its decommissioning, because we are working on improving economic efficiency. Thus, nothing negative will happen until this work is completed. Here on the part of the PGNiG authorities, I have also been assured - and I would like to convey to you this assurance - that until the completion of the work I have mentioned, the removal of further openings has been suspended. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is also asked by Mr Bogdan Rzońc. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u90	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm going to tell you something that maybe it wasn't right to tell you, but watching what's going on at Exalo Drilling, I can tell you that it was a huge mistake to make such a company. Take a look at this... I'm talking about the power of the previous one, not the Minister and the current owners, not the current owners, the PGNiG. It was a huge mistake. It was destroyed, for example. the branch in Jasl, people were disposed of - masters, engineers after the Mining and Steel Academy, they scattered around Poland to private companies. Today there is no real culprit of this state of affairs. Please, sir, this is actually just a request that you, as a representative, as the owner of this subsidiary of PGNiG, Exalo Drilling, look into what is happening in Jasło, Jasło's department at the moment. This unit had a really great staff, very good equipment. [[And it does.]] And it does. And then there's those engineers who want to do it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] their work is as good as they can be. So here's my request. And question: Does PGNiG as owner see the possibility to finance this subsidiary company, Exalo, because it is necessary, and to heal the personnel situation, so that it was not as it was in various companies, where pianists or musicians led the Polish extraction of gas or oil? Respect those people who are still in Exalo Drilling in the Jasl branch, try to equip and in my opinion there will be financial successes, as well as successes for people who work, and for the region, because that's what we expect from the owner, from PGNiG, so that Exalo Drilling can function normally as it used to. All I'm asking is that the Minister take a look at what's going on in there so that this bad position, which was taken several years ago, is simply not taken advantage of, that Saw suddenly became the cradle of the Polish oil industry. This is, you might say, a historical scandal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u91	Mr... we are going to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u92	It's a forgery of history in general. Sir, I'm actually appealing to you for a fresh look at how Exalo Drilling works at all, in Pile and in Jasel's department. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u93	Thank you very much. Would the Minister like to refer to this? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Three lines. Line one. Of course, audit activities are carried out in PGNiG, as in any other company, and they will be reduced accordingly. So that if any irregularities occurred there, then they, I assume, will be diagnosed by audit. Minister Jackiewicz attaches great importance to the audit of this state of affairs which we have found. So that I assure you that this will be done. As for the situation we have today, it is that we always find a state of affairs. Today, of course, it may have turned out that this company was a mistake. But today she is, and we must respond to the situation we are dealing with. And the third line. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, financial issues are very important and will be a priority for us. But we also do not forget that the Treasury as the owner is not a private owner - it is not a private owner whose purpose is only to raise money as a dividend. The Treasury is an emanation of the state, that is, a shareholder who has the right to expect something more or something else. Sustainable development is important for us, jobs are important for us, and therefore such a holistic approach to the effects of the capital involved. That's what we're gonna do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the last question. The question is asked by Jacek Kurzepa, Iwona Michałek and Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club, on the preparation of specific solutions to support scouting organizers of summer holidays for children and young people. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Education. Mr Kurzepa is the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the three of us - yours, Mrs Borowiak and Mrs Michalek - I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are in the process of preparing the summer rest of children and young people. We're on the front page, however, preparing and organizing a summer action by all scout and scout organizations. The nature of such projects is related to a certain specificity. Scout camps most often, many of you know this well, take place in natural space, in the woods, in meadows and fields where tents are set up, field kitchens built, scouts create their program, implement it. In recent times, however, this classic is replaced by the formal requirements of decision-makers who force the organizers to meet the difficult requirements of building some sanitary facilities, setting up permanent structures in which young people could be present, which is a complete denial of the idea of a forest-based operation and education which carries, however, the value of shaping certain characteristics, skills, attitudes, courage, independence. In view of the above, it seems appropriate to ask the Ministry whether there is a chance that this form of recreation of children and young people can somehow be supported and protected. Does the Ministry have an idea in this regard? I ask you very kindly to respond, on behalf of scouts and scouts in all scouts' organizations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u97	Thank you very much, sir. I invite you to answer Mrs Teresa Wargocka, Minister at the Ministry of National Education. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A period of vacation is approaching, a period of rest for children and young people from school duties. I think I can inform the High House that this holiday will be organised on the basis of new regulations on the organisation of summer holidays for children and young people. The Decree of the Minister of Education shall enter into force on 1 April, as well as the provisions of the amendment of the Act on the Education System. At the outset, I would like to make it very clear that scouting organisations in the Education Act are listed as those which are essential to support the educational system's activities in the field of education. The Minister of Education recognises that cooperation between schools and educational establishments with scouting organisations is a very important complement to the educational and caring functions of the school. We want to work as much as possible to promote good scouting practices on education and training of scouting staff. Such support from the Ministry is already being implemented. We encourage schools to create scouting environments, we patronize many Girl Scouting Initiatives on the upbringing of children and young people, as well as consult with Girl Scouting Organisations on draft normative acts on education and upbringing of children and young people. I will tell you briefly what changes will take place from 1 April 2016. The proposed changes to the Act were primarily aimed at increasing the safety of children and young people during rest, strengthening supervision of this holiday, providing educational care and increasing information for parents, for holiday organisers by creating a new, highly efficient electronic rest base. Some things have been really structured, especially in the act is the definition of what rest is for children and young people. Here I will refer to the Scout's request, which, however, was not included in the regulation. Scout organisations have requested that camping for up to 4 days be exempted from reporting to the rest base. Nevertheless, we have the situation that it is in the Education Act that a definition defines what rest is for children and young people, that is, any organized form connected with leaving the facility for more than 2 days. So, in the regulation, we could not take into account a request that would be contrary to regulation in the Education Act. But there is also very good information, because a modern electronic database will allow a properly completed application included in this database to be a confirmation that there is an agreement to rest. Also, if the organiser fails to comply with a requirement in this notification, this database will verify and take into account that the application is as complete as possible. Finally, we have a semicolony case in the city that hasn't had legal regulations so far. Now they're on this base, and there are certain conditions that the semicolons will have to meet. Forms have been simplified very much, and this is an important issue especially for short forms of rest, because information about specific accommodation conditions, such as pre-rent contracts, such as contracts for the export of impurities, such as fire department checks, has been removed. So this information is given to a limited extent. The information contained in the qualification card shall also ensure the safety of the participant's rest in terms of health. In this context, we could not include in the regulation the request of scouting unions to oblige the parent to consent to hospitalisation of the child if there was an accident in the application. However, it is health protection and it is the right of the parent to decide about the medical facility in which the child is to be hospitalized. However, we felt that this had to happen not before we went on a form of rest, to the camp, but always in a situation where something happened. That is: the whereabouts of the parent when the child is on rest, telephone, contact and every decision if needed. There are also changes that take into account the rules of the Boy Scouting Organizations, moving towards the sanctioning of the high [[♪ The bell ♪]] the competence of the scouting staff. Guided scout instructors are exempt, as the only group among non-governmental organisations, from the obligation to have secondary education in the case of a leisure manager and educator. Will you allow the marshal to finish?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u99	Okay, yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: Scout instructors are exempt from the obligation to complete the course as a rest manager. Instructors are also exempted from the requirement to have three years of experience in teaching and training tasks. Scout instructors are exempt from the obligation to complete a course for leisure training. The number of disabled or chronically ill in the group has also been defined to ensure the safety of the organisation of rest. I also wanted to make it very clear, because it has also been decided that scouting organisations organize children's and young people's recreation on the basis of the provisions of the Act on the system of education, i.e. educational regulations. There were various discussions here, various ambiguities, whether it is commercial or non-commercial activities, which are regulations. These regulations clearly state that this rest is organised on the basis of these provisions. I also wanted to say about the postulates of scouting relationships, that e.g. We have left in the regulation the obligation to provide the site sketch and the consent of the owner in case of leisure organised in a traveling form. So we make it easy, too. We don't have to go. sometimes a few hundred kilometers and agree on formal matters before rest. These are great facilities. We didn't include combining the role of carer or educator and rest manager. We believe that here, especially in a situation of rest in the field, it should be two people. Nor have we taken into account the combination of the role of educator with the function of lifeguard, because as far as the water rescuer is concerned, there is a law on the safety of people living in water areas and those issues are strictly regulated there. If you have any further questions, I am at your disposal. Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Iwona Michalek asks an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u100	Minister, thank you very much for what we have heard so far. We're the three of us here, we're involved in education, and we're particularly concerned about developing the Boy Scout movement. I wanted to ask if they were planned, or maybe already there are, some solutions for the support of scouts in communication with health care, for example - health care puts very high demands, sometimes unpassable - whether the ministry is planning any facilitation in these matters, such as the supervision of the school curator, whether it has changed or is at the moment as it was, as it is. with foresights, or they must cooperate, fill out some documents. Is the Ministry planning additional facilities for these scout organisations? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u101	Thank you very much. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u102	The Member has identified further areas of difficulty in organizing scouting. As you said, this applies to various resorts. I think about it. I need more discernment and more thought. However, as I said, this holiday is organized under the Education Act. So that I very much invite you to cooperate - I know that there is a parliamentary team for scouting organizations. If there are any obstacles to this, we promise to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at the present meeting of the Sejm information on HR policy will be discussed in companies with the participation of the State Treasury and institutions subordinate to the Council of Ministers, about which the presentation was requested by the Poselski Kukiz Club15. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a 10-minute break because the Minister is arriving, he's in traffic. I hope he'll be here soon. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 minutes 15 hours 11 min 23]] We're reconvening. We're looking at item 12. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Jaskola. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u104	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! Today will be about these, and about these. On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the basis of 194 art. Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I applied for the presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers at the 15th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of current information on staff policy in companies with the participation of the State Treasury and institutions subordinate to the Council of Ministers. Reason. According to press reports already 200 positions in companies of the Treasury, state agencies, especially agricultural agencies, and institutions, were placed by the government with persons associated with the governing party: PiS activists, close, supporters, friends. When the list of posts is analysed, there is a very serious concern about the competence of at least some of these people. We hoped that the PiS would eliminate the pathologies of non-believers' socialists, i.e. Platforms and PSLs. What did the 19th-century writer Frédéric Bastiat say about cohabitation? When looting becomes a way of life for a group of people, over time they will create for themselves a legal system that justifies their actions, and a moral code that will glorify it. And I feel like that's what's happening in our country. Józef Piłsudski said in 1926 that he stood up to fight, as before, with the main evil of the state: the reign of the overgrown parties and biases over Poland, forgetting the imponderabils, and remembering the penny and benefits. Could it have been better? Yes. The announcement was better. President Kaczyński said that there is no reduction in the issue of nepotism. We're gonna fix you, and it's all about you. Minister Kempa spoke about the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, showing that at almost 3,700 names, 1700 people have very similar or the same names as the Supreme Board of Control and Central Anti-corruption Office. So what's it like? Unfortunately, as announced in the campaign of the ruling party, citizens had the right to expect such selection of company staff as would claim to be professional. Unfortunately, it's not. There are extremely many negative examples. And now I'm gonna try to replace them. physiotherapist and at the same time councilman PiS Jacek Pawłanie became a member of the supervisory board of the Polish Real Estate Holding. What's that PiS member gonna massage in real estate? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Law and Justice repeatedly emphasized the necessity of the development of the Polish arms industry and the desire to strengthen Polish national defence. At the same time, the son of MEP Richard Czarnecki was appointed as advisor to the key institution. The president of the Tauron group was Zdzisław Filip - a sejmowy alderman, his competence is that he is a colleague of the Prime Minister from primary school. The funniest, however, is Violetta Mackiewicz-Sasiak. She is a nurse at a social services home and has just become a member of the supervisory board of the energy giant ENERGY. What does this phenomenal member have in common with energy? She's energetic. It's the only factor. [[Well, that's enough.]] The work, not the promise - this slogan for it has just come true. We also have an interesting situation in agricultural agencies. Henryk Młynarczyk, Deputy Head of the Lublin branch of the agency - former Member of Samoobrony, member of the political council of PiS, and Bogusław Witkowski. He's an incredibly interesting character. Head of the Wroclaw branch of the Agricultural Property Agency, ruled for two weeks. Guess why. Because they were wrong. Participative nominations to companies with the participation of the State Treasury is a tragedy of our country. And she's three-faced. First of all, party gifts from the citizens' pockets. That's bad. This is a blow to the market positions of our companies and a threat to many jobs in companies of the State Treasury. We need, ministers, a new selection of staff, one that meets many conditions, but professionalism is essential. We expect information on the criteria according to which these persons are selected to serve in companies with the participation of the State Treasury and institutions subordinate to the government, because they do not come here. only about the State Treasury company. This great kingdom of PSL was taken over by the PiS and the great kingdom of the Platform - also by the PiS. So here you are, socialists, completely no different. You view entrepreneurship not as a sphere of your own action, but as entrepreneurship in companies of the Treasury and agencies, and that is scandalous and society did not allow it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have constructive mechanisms: the anti-sitting mechanism, ministers, i.e. on the boards of companies, the Treasury should not have members of the party associated with the activity a year back. We should, at least in part, privatise non-strategic companies. Finally, the most important question: After this current information, ministers and coalition, I apologize, the ruling party... [[There's a coalition with Kukiz.]] ...will you take that absolutely into account and finally make a good change? Because many of your aspects are positive, but this one meets with the general outrage of society, and we are a citizen's club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's a good example.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u105	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister of Treasury of Mr. David Jackiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin by thanking the applicants in the first words for raising this extremely important problem concerning effective and efficient supervision of the Treasury's assets. This is a matter that I have been dealing with for four months in the Ministry of the Treasury, and before that I have been dealing with for almost 9 years as Vice-President of the Sejm Committee on the Treasury. These 9 years have allowed me to gather knowledge of the pathological functioning of supervision or how the supervision of the state property is not functioning. These four months spent at the Ministry of the Treasury today allow me to say that this supervision was de facto absent. The Ministry of Treasury instead of focusing on multiplying the value of our joint ownership companies, the property of the whole society, the whole nation, focused only on privatisation, on the sale of this property. The Ministry of Treasury was de facto the Ministry of Privatization. This extremely important part of the competence of the Ministry of Treasury, which is effective, reliable supervision of the State Treasury's assets, has been put aside. Companies governed by the Minister of the Treasury became free dukes and became a place where, once appointed, he became president, a member of the board of directors of such an entity, was almost inextricable. These companies, dear state, have become the places to which those who had no competence have been appointed, were appointed only and exclusively on the basis of who had any political recommendation. And I don't mean whether someone had or didn't have a party card, but who promoted him, who stood behind his back, how a strong political promoter made a decision, put pressure on him, and then protected him as a member of the supervisory board, a member of the board, or a president of a company. [[You're talking about yourself.]] Even when there was a public action in this company to the detriment of the company, the presidents, the boards, the supervisory boards were not criticized and certainly were not subject to appeal. [[Great, self-criticism.]] If you would be kind, because it is difficult to concentrate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Great.]] Okay? Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, these few months... [[As you say about yourself.]] ... it allowed me to diagnose many pathologies, and I will soon speak about it publicly during the presentation of audit results, audits. I'd like to give you a few examples. It would be good to realize what we have been dealing with in the eight years of my predecessors' rule. In one of the companies, almost 900 thousand were paid to an advisory company. PLN for developing a strategy with, attention, less than 50 pages. 900,000. zł. In another - I do not mention names so as not to affect the listings and exchange rates of these entities - it was noted that the multi-million-dollar remuneration of legal firms and the lack of control over the hourly provision of services were exceeded. Imagine that the price or cost of such a legal service on the part of some firms was up to PLN 1000 per hour. In one of the capital groups, the costs of various types of advice, PR services amounted, attention, up to 250 thousand. PLN per day, ladies and gentlemen. $250,000. zł paid day by day all year round. [[Better give Rydzyk, indeed.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one of the companies with high social recognition and implementing a statutory monopoly, which does not require promotion, spent PLN 37 million on advertising during the year in one of the television stations. The president of one of the state-owned companies not operating abroad had scheduled trips - he had, because he was recently, that is, resigned a few days ago - to eight different countries in just the next two months, including as far away as Nigeria, South Africa, the United States, etc. In the case of one of the former members of the board of directors of one of the very serious, important to the strategy, a collusion was revealed for the economic security of the company's country, which is that only four days before the new management took over the company, there was a change of contract which provided an additional benefit of 560 thousand. The president who's being called off right now. I will give these examples a few hundred during the press conference, where I will talk about the pathology found, about the fraud found, about the lack of real supervision and control... [[But you're talking about yourself.]] ...over the Treasury companies. And in such a situation, ladies and gentlemen, there is a change of government, a change of group or team, which at the moment has ownership supervision over companies of the Treasury. The main charge of you, what the applicants accuse the Minister of the Treasury, is that he chooses the people he has confidence in. The main target... [[What about competence?]] ...new, ladies and gentlemen, representatives on supervisory boards and boards are... Of course, competence is a condition, a condition is having a state exam entitled to sit on supervisory boards... [[Competence.]] ...experience, proper internship. All this is obvious, but one of the main criteria must be, ladies and gentlemen, trust. How do you imagine the implementation of economic interests, the economic agenda of the government, the Government of Law and Justice, based on the people who sabotage this programme, based on people who openly and publicly - I am talking about former representatives of the Treasury on supervisory boards or company presidents - say that they do not identify with this programme? We had such examples in the past, it is the construction of Opole Power Plant, a strategic investment for the energy security of the country, when the president of this company, despite government decisions, openly stated that he did not identify with this strategy and will not build this power plant. He refused to implement so important for society as a whole, for the whole country, for the whole nation of investment. This is, ladies and gentlemen, unthinkable. [[Voice from the hall: Now the chief will be...]] The representatives of the Treasury, the shareholder, sometimes the majority shareholder, sometimes the only shareholder in the companies of the State Treasury must be persons who identify with the government programme which currently exercises power in the country. They must, ladies and gentlemen, be aware of the programme demands of this government. They have to stand guard of this business. The Minister of the Treasury must have confidence in the people he is posting there, therefore very clearly during the election campaign, and then during my first public appearances I said that I depart from the fictional competition procedure in the Ministry of the Treasury, from the hypocrisy that my predecessors practiced, who said that there was a transparent process of selection of professionals selected in the competition procedure, but in fact these competition committees, ladies and gentlemen, who selected these experts, consisted of advisers and members of the minister's political office. What is the reliability and credibility of this process? Fiction and hypocrisy. Today you have a very transparent process of selecting people for companies of the State Treasury, for supervisory boards, and supervisory boards select for the board. There's no competition for supervisory boards because it's the government's full responsibility, the ministers who choose their co-workers. And today you have a clear situation: if a mistake has been made somewhere, either this error must be corrected by the competent minister, or the minister has political and later legal responsibility for his decisions. He will not be obscured by any fictitious competition committee, by any pseudo-transparent process of emergence in competition proceedings. We have told this fiction and it will not be cultivated in the Ministry of the Treasury as long as we are chairing this ministry as long as the Government of Law and Justice has oversight and responsibility for state assets. Ladies and gentlemen! Your proposal referred to some real consequences - in your opinion, in your view - of our personal decisions. It was said that there was an increase in bureaucracy, and, after all, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, members of today's Law and Justice Government, announced that this bureaucracy would be fought. So I want to overthrow this myth, ladies and gentlemen, thanking you for bringing up this important subject. However, I want to tell you how it really is by providing you with information. Ladies and gentlemen! In my own State Treasury department over the last four months, because that's all my supervision and my role as State Treasury Minister lasts, we've reduced employment by 35 people, and for the next six months we've reduced employment by 65,5 jobs. These are real decisions to reduce bureaucracy in the Ministry of the Treasury. By the end of this year, employment will decrease by 20% in the entire state treasury department. It's over 100 people less... [[Applause]] [[The Ministry's out of order.]] ...and this is a real saving of public resources, this is the fight against red tape and administration, these are real effects - thank you again for respecting my time - the fight against bureaucracy. In the Treasury companies, because you also accuse this country as an increase in bureaucracy, over the first 100 days of government 159 members of supervisory boards were dismissed, but here - attention - only 135 were appointed, because where possible, my dear country, we thought that supervisory boards could be reduced from 5 to 3 members. This happened in all radio stations, in all regional radio stations, at the National Sugar Company. As far as the boards are concerned, 90 board members have been dismissed, but only 71 board members have been appointed in place. These are real savings, going in hundreds of thousands of zlotys a year. Ladies and gentlemen! The charge of increased or over-inflated bureaucracy under the rule of law and justice is wrong. I am able to give you this in the form of an official response to your interpellations, questions and doubts. I am at your disposal in this respect. [[We're looking forward to it.]] As far as decisions are concerned, which affect the value of the companies, because this argument was also made in the application which you submitted, that the political decisions which are taken by the Ministry of the Treasury are supposed to have negative consequences... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u107	Thank you, Minister, at this stage.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u108	...and the impact on the listing of companies of the Treasury... Thank you very much. [[Applause]] If there's only a few more seconds...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u109	No, Minister. You'll still have time to answer. We have to fit in 90 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u110	Good. Thank you very much, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u111	Allow me to give you the floor once more, after the questions have been asked. You go back to the podium one more time, and at this point, we're starting to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u112	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'll point out that my predecessor may have been out of time. [[But the minister didn't finish his sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u113	Unfortunately, there is a strict time limit for questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u114	I'll try to answer the rest of the questions in a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u115	That's it. I'll give you the floor. If there's time, I'll even lengthen it. There's no problem. Ladies and gentlemen, on the list of people... [[But the minister didn't finish his sentence because he's interrupting.]] ...which have joined the task of the question, there are 45 Members. The time to ask questions is 60 minutes in total. I'm asking you to fit in these 90 minutes. So please make sure that these questions are asked efficiently so that all of us can allow the question to be asked so that we do not run out of time. Here we go. . Anybody else want to ask on the list? I can't see. In that case, I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask the question of Mr Marek Matuszewski's Member of the Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir. Let me remind you, it's a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask how much the state budget paid to Mr Aleksandr Grad, President of PGE, from the moment of employment to the moment of termination of his employment in that company. What is the total cost of this company's operations since its start, and isn't it that the Platform politicians have set up this company to have a great time with state money? Minister! Is it the direction for your office that salaries in the Treasury companies will be reduced? On the question of whether the Boards of the Treasury companies will be reduced, the Minister has already answered. I will give you an example of how the Civic Platform was under the leadership of the Members of the Kukiza Club concerned about staff policy, e.g. in the Polish Tourist Organization, POT, under the Minister of Sport. The president of POT had four advisors who cost the budget about PLN 1 million a year. After PiS took power, they were released and the money was spent on youth sports and tourism. High Izbo! Minister! It is certainly not known by Members, especially Mr Kukiz, that when the Platform with PSL took over government or local government power, thousands of workers were fired in the first months, replacing them with their own. [[Thousands? Millions!]] That's what happened. I have been a Member since 2005, and I remember what you were doing in 2007. And as some media reports, in our governments only 200 people, Minister, have been employed. [[Voice from the room: Not only, not only.]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Minister! It's time for a quicker shift. Poles expect it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform Club. You are welcome, and thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I have the impression that, as the Minister said about pathology, you were talking about what's going on right now. And thank you. I was also agitated by one piece of information that you were accusing the company that put the strategy on 50 pages, paid her a lot of money - 900,000. Someone who's standing in the ministry talking about stuff like that. To me, it's insulting. I don't know if you realize what you're talking about. [[Do you know?]] Ladies and gentlemen! A Economist will never say anything like that in his life. One side of the strategy is more important sometimes, worth all the money. [[What are you saying?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Blaming others is a good strategy for you in every area - from television to every public institution, as the applicant said, and the Treasury company. Unbelievable things are happening. I'm afraid campaign rhetoric is booming. You must say that this is necessary, necessary, because you are all in the way of making a good change. [[The platform's interfering.]] Let me give you one example of this good change. You said you were extremely clean about this. Jan Maria Tomaszewski from 2006 to 2007: three jobs, ranging from waterworks to television and Orlen. You're a plasticist by education, Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński's family. Let me ask you a question: Where is Mr. Jan Maria Tomaszewski today? Mr Jan Maria Tomaszewski is today an advisor to the Management Board of TVP. [[So what?]] We can't tell him what his salary is or what his responsibilities are because it's a secret. Ladies and gentlemen! What's going on, it's just quality, it's PR games. This has nothing to do with quality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Oda, Kukiz club15. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In line with the announcements of the governing party from the election campaign and the content of the exposé, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, we have heard often repeated slogans of good change, including changes in the management of public property, and about ending with nepotism and co-motery. However, party nominations made by the Government of Law and Justice to companies with the State Treasury do not differ in any way from what the previous ruling team did. The Wałbrzych Special Economic Zone Invest-Park sp. z o.o., which covers nearly 3 thousand of its activities. ha investment areas in 48 localities of south-western Poland. In total, companies invested over PLN 20 billion in the zone. Since March 2016, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has been Mr Bogdan Kożuchowicz, a member of Law and Justice, a person with an agricultural education who has never dealt with management or ownership supervision in large commercial companies with the participation of the State Treasury. It is a person who for many years has been acting by choice in the authorities of the local government. However, is knowledge of municipal issues sufficiently qualified to cast such a person as chairman of the supervisory board of the largest special economic zone in Poland, Minister? Does Mr. Bogdan Kożuchowicz have the authority to carry out permanent supervision of the company's activities? Whether it will be able to carry out a substantive assessment of the management reports on the company's activities and financial statements for the previous financial year in terms of compliance with books, documents as well as the facts, assessment of the management's conclusions on profit sharing and loss coverage, and other important decisions requiring high competences, among others. concerning the company's assets and personnel matters? Minister, who and under what procedures did he fill this post? Was the candidate subject to substantive verification prior to entry? If so, to what extent, in what form? Has the activities concerning the verification of competence been documented and is such documentation in the ministry's possession? Isn't that an act to the detriment of the company... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u121	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u122	...and to the detriment of the State Treasury? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u123	I ask you to ask Mr Grzegorz Furga, Modern. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u124	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen! Minister! I can't help but admire the way you look us in the eye, right in the eye, and rocking incredibly. You're rocking us. Sir, you can't be happy with what's going on on TV. This job merry-go-round is gonna bounce very hard on the influences one day. The advertisers will escape unless you do a smart job, dumping the price of advertising, murdering private television. Because how do you explain, Minister, that a member of the supervisory board on the Szczecin radio... I'm not saying it's a farmer, he may be, he may know himself, but he's the chairman of the Stargard City Council at the same time. That's what the standards are these days? Do we combine these functions? We've lost 500, according to the media, managers lately. I will not defend them, because absolutely this pathology was, because the companies of the Treasury are simply, ladies and gentlemen, a loot for many years. This is the loot to which you also apply your hand. But do we have another 500 good, efficient managers that you trust? You're talking about trust. Minister, I'll concentrate on three things, quickly. The press on the coast reports that it is, of course, shocked by the huge changes in ENERGYA, where 30 party activists recently got profitable jobs, and none of the parties, as reported by the media, can explain how they knew about the recruitment. And the second question, because I'm running out of time, and it's very important. Is it true you're expecting a change in the head of Lotus? I won't defend Mr. Olechnovich or stand up for him because it's not my job here, just tell me if you'll find a better professional. He's been a good manager for 14 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u125	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u126	And if so, who? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u127	I would ask you to ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! To the Member of the applicant. Mr President, you seem to have gone a little too far, you have not read and you have no historical knowledge of what the Polish People's Party is, in what values it has grown up in, you do not know that they are not non-believers socialists, Mr President. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Read it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Read it, Minister, and you will speak later when you read it. [[Socialists...]] Minister, are there any criteria for selection of personnel at the moment, except that there must be belonging to the PiS and confessing the known values? I think that Poland has good professionals and there are also many good professionals in the world. So I want to ask you what it's going to be like to get these people who don't have a clue to understand something so they can start to know about the economy, understand how these mechanisms work, because after all... [[Voice from the room: Only PSL...]] [[No, it's just PSL.]] We're not talking about PSL, no, we're not talking about PSL. [[No?]] What's the cost? I ask, because already today the effects are visible, for example in payment of benefits, in payments to farmers. It's jamming, we're really behind because a lot of people don't know about it. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] It takes years of work and knowledge of the industry, topics. [[That's not true.]] [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] The others who know each other are completely intimidated, afraid to make any decision. So I have a simple question: what will the social cost be, and who will pay for it, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u129	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Paweł Lisiecki, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u130	High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! The Minister of State Treasury exercises the powers arising from the property rights of the Treasury and appoints and dismisses members of the public authorities of legal persons, including companies of the State Treasury. It is understandable to me that the new Minister of the Treasury wants, and should even have in these positions, the person he trusts, but at the same time bears responsibility for, their qualifications and their actions. It is hard to imagine a situation in which the representatives of the current government, criticising the previous Minister of the Treasury in the previous term of office, would hold all the people of the previous minister. Nor can I imagine that the Minister of the Treasury, who is to carry out the programme of the current government, will hold positions in the organs of the public legal entities of the people who do not or do not wish to carry it out. Hence my question. Was an audit commissioned in state legal entities, companies of the State Treasury? Were the previous members of the public authorities of legal persons cleared on the basis of this audit? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u131	I thank the Member for his excellent timing. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u132	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before the parliamentary elections, in October, the President of Law and Justice assured us all, assured Poles that the rule of law and justice would be a time of peace and tranquility. [[Yes, sir.]] But you've treated the concept of peace in a slightly different way by throwing yourself on furniture, especially seats, desks, tables, stools, stools. Instead of a time of peace and peace... [[Yours.]] ...we have time for jobs and stools. I'd like to say that the horse would laugh... [[Oh, that's right.]] ...but it's not really funny to horses either, because besides throwing yourself on the stools, you also threw yourself on saddles, especially in the Podlasie studs of horses. So as not to be literal, a few examples. The supervisory board of the largest energy company, PGE, becomes a member of the friend of the President, the person who lent him 200,000. zł. In the subsidiary of PZU, Link4 - the wife of the Minister of Justice, in PKN Orlen - former Minister of Treasury from PiS, and the director of the Ministry of Justice. Communication - former spokesperson for Law and Justice. [[You're in pain here.]] Member of the Council of the Polish Property Holding - physiotherapist rehabilitator, Councilor of Law and Justice. [[Tables.]] The changes also included a very sensitive sector, the security sector. Two months before the big events, you threw out all five generals, heads of Polish special forces, thanked them at night. Who did you call to replace them? District Councilor PiS from Warka, 2 PiS candidates to the Sejm. Your furniture is really hitting the safety of Poland and Poles. You also approached the stools in a very structural way. In January, the director of the office of one of the PIS Members in Pomerania sent an e-mail of this content: Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of Janusz Śniadek, please send the proposals of candidates, CVs and your recommendations - to PiS activists - to the position of directors of the county offices of ARMIR. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u133	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u134	What's the assessment of this e-mail, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u135	The question will be asked by Jerzy Kozłowski...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u136	Do you also receive such emails?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u137	Mr President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u138	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u139	Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In connection with media reports concerning the cast of positions in companies of the State Treasury and advice in this respect carried out by companies belonging to the so-called heroes. The Madrid scandal, I have questions for the Minister of the Treasure. Minister, do the Treasury companies, and if so, which companies have used or used the services of companies belonging to the heroes of this affair or their wives? Does your ministry cooperate in any form with these companies, and in particular with Mr. Hofman? The next topic is much more serious. A few months ago, we were investigating a draft banking tax bill here. The PiS assured us that the bill was tight and secure for the budget. Currently, the media reports that some banks benefit from the tax-free access provided by Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of this bill. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister, but this time the Minister of Finance: Which banks reported a balance sheet loss and benefit from the resolution programme, thus avoiding paying the bank tax? What other banks, according to the Ministry's forecasts, will benefit from this legal gap? Were lobbying companies involved in the process of drafting this law? Whether the so-called was extended over its creation. Anti-corruption shield? That's basically a question I'm gonna address to the task force coordinator. PiS promised a good change, and the media indicate that the change took place on the stools in the Treasury companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask for a written reply, because Poles have the right to know what it is. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u141	Thank you so much for asking me questions. I ask Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club. There is no Member. In that case, I would like to ask another person, Barbara Dziuk, the Law and Justice Club. Oh, there's the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The subject is called, and I think it's very good, as the Minister said, because of these difficult topics. You need to talk. The financial analysis is absolutely necessary to show everyone in black and white how much the Platform actually pulled out of the Treasury companies. And here is a very interesting matter, I have a question to the Minister: Is it true that companies of the State Treasury with a 100% share are less and less because the Platform was creating a process, the chimney law was in force and the companies were in force so that some earnings would not be higher than, in order to earn, it was created daughter companies, where the relevant persons were placed on supervisory boards? Have companies with external capital been multiplied by POs? And - what is interesting - is it true that the chimney law did not apply, therefore the earnings were very high? The company mentioned here already created to build a nuclear power plant, ladies and gentlemen, this is some kind of joke at the expense of society. I will only say one thing, referring to the previous speaker's statement that the furniture was followed by the Prime Minister for a government meeting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u143	Thank you very much, Commissioner, also for the time-frame. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u144	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister has clearly defined that he has the right to appoint persons to pursue his policies. But I have a question for the Minister if there's really no one left to call on these companies. A few examples. Part one, return. We have two such interesting examples in the Małopolska voivodship. The first concerns the salt mine in Wieliczka. Mr Zbigniew Zarębski returned, cancelled in 2009 for unprofessional management of the company. According to scientists at the Mining and Steel Academy, water pressure increased dangerously due to the closure of valves on the Mina sidewalk dam, threatening to flood with salt undergrounds. He could have sunk a salt mine in Wieliczka. Are you imagining this? And such a person today returns to this office again. Second example, Władysław Krakowski, first president of ZEW Niedziec. Here a similar situation was established during the rule of Solidarity Election Action and did not even last until the end of this term. In 2001, the discharge was cancelled. You know very well how he worked with the right ministry at the time, missed investments. Today, a 72-year-old returns again. After what? I can't answer that. The third example has already been given here: its own. Zdzisław Filip, schoolmate of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, immediately promoted to two seats of the president: Tauron Extraction and Tauron Nowe Brzeszcze. A person who has not led any human team in his life, a person who has no experience, you allow him to experiment on 7.5 thousand. people employed in three mines: Sobieski, Janina and Brzeszcze. A person who hasn't made any investments in his life today is supposed to oversee multi-billion-dollar investments. Do you really think, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That the quality of management staff doesn't matter at all? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u145	Thank you very much, sir. Another question, Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz club15. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I actually have two questions about the staff exchange. The first concerns the Vice-President of the Board of Maritime Ports Szczecin and Świnoujście, who became Mr Kazimierz Drzazga, the Seym Councilor of PiS without experience - there is no experience in business management [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Or in the industry itself. What powers justify the choice of Mr. Splinter? The second question concerns the last election as head of the KRUS in Krakow by Mr Łukasz Kmita, who also has no greater experience than this last stool when he became president of the communal union of the communes of And please don't justify this with some mistrust, because we know what's going on in the regions, and we know that people really come without experience, without competence, who can harm the Treasury. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u147	Thank you, Commissioner, for the fine task of the question. And another question, Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club. There isn't. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today there are accusations from this room, numerous allegations concerning the qualifications of managers in the Treasury companies. I have a question for you making these allegations, on the basis of which you are making allegations concerning the incompetence of persons appointed to positions in companies of the Treasury. [[If someone's never worked, what powers do they have?]] You have absolutely no basis for doing this. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister. Minister, what competences are taken into account when selecting key positions, including members of supervisory boards? Do they have the required powers, e.g. passed exams to sit on supervisory boards? There are also allegations concerning the appointment of persons to the key positions for the Treasury - people themselves, personalities. Would the Minister feel responsible for appointing people who would not be trusted by the Minister, who would not be trusted by the people who appointed them, would not guarantee that they would implement the Law and Justice programme, a programme good for Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u149	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for the smooth task of the question. And the next question will be asked by Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u150	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! An example from my district. PGE Mining &amp; Conventional Energy Company in Bełchatów, which, if you had not known, includes mine and power plant Bełchatów, mine and power plant of Turów, Opole Power Plant, Dolna Odra Power Plant and several power plants, the company which is the leader in the production of energy and is also the largest company of the PGE capital group. And who's gonna be president of this giant? The man who was the operator of the block setting, the president of the Sports and Recreation Centre in Zgorzelec, the deputy chief mechanic, and finally a member of the Board of Directors at the Municipal Cleansing Company in Bogatynia. Specialist in the purification of Sławomir Zawada, because he is an active activist of the PiS, the district attorney of the party in Zgorzelec, ran for mayor of Zgorzelec on behalf of the PiS and is still a social assistant of Marzena Machalek. Pikanteria adds that this fresh president from the party call for the director of the Opole power plant, where powerful investments are being carried out, two new power blocks are being built, the former Chief of Staff, to which the villagers of Brzezie have lost confidence and who has so far been a private employee of the power plant, but is supported by Deputy Minister Patrick Jak. [[Applause]] There were mentioned here about the previous overgrown parties, but, please, these supposedly overgrown parties did not call off the head of the mine in Bełchatów, later president of PGE GiEK SA Jacek Kaczorowski, who took up this function in 2006, i.e. in the times of PiS, because he was a professional, outstanding manager, a long-standing director who knew the industry. And I think his sin was that he was serious about working in Bełchatów during the Platform. I have a question: How do you imagine building independence? [[♪ The bell ♪]] energy of Poland, handing over complete...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u151	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u152	...Survivor strategic energy companies? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for an efficient and very detailed answer to my question about the advertising expenses of the companies of the Treasury in 2007 and 2015. But just so it's not sweet, today I'm going to announce that in December I'm going to ask the second question - what you've done for a year and how much you've spent on advertising from the Treasury companies. So that such a question will be asked in December. I was a little worried and worried that ENERGY Lighting, the company of self-governments, was maintained by you and not liquidated, the company which has so far been known as the CEO of PO, a company that loots self-government. I'll just give you an example of Warmia and Mazury. Half of Warmia and Mazury are subject to ENERGY Lighting, half are subject to PGE. Where there is ENERGY Lighting, local authorities have problems - for 3 years, 2 years there really are no contracts, what's more, ENERGY invents its price lists, there is no competitiveness, there is no composition and no order. Where PGE is, there is no problem, because PGE went along a straight path and said briefly: self-government, this is your topic, act, we give it to you with pleasure, we do not interfere in your affairs. ENERGY Lighting the loot of self-governments, forces them to sign rackets for energy supply, maintenance, and then takes Mr. Kowalski locally, and in fact it is a company that only invoicing itself and spilling massive money. In short: Why do you maintain this fiction through the existence of ENERGY Lighting, giving work to two former tri-city councillors, Mr. - today president Meler and Mr. Falandysz? In short, let's stop with fiction and save money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u155	Thank you so much for putting yourself in time. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u156	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! You spoke very much about the past in your speech. I agree that the practice of selecting staff for the Treasury companies has not been appropriate so far, but Minister, it has been four months and you should talk less and less about this past. You should be talking about the present. There are already many names in this room, many negative examples of the fact that Law and Justice are not a good change in companies of the Treasury. I will not give further examples, I will only say this: the competitions were often hypocritical, it is true, but, Minister, these competitions had some value, the competitions contained certain formal requirements, certain minimum thresholds that had to be exceeded. If they were still in force, there would be no nurse's kazusu, a physiotherapist in a State Treasury company. This is a very important matter. You're talking about trust. Minister, you can have trust if you are a private owner of two, three or five entities. Please fill the supervisory boards and boards of these companies with your colleagues, friends, but Minister, you must not do this in the case of companies of the Treasury, because it is the property of all of us, it is a national property. Speaking of trust, Minister, you are showing a lack of professionalism, because, with the shares and shares of the Treasury companies, you may also have to set out strategies for these companies at meetings of shareholders or general meetings, the objectives to be achieved by these companies. And such goals should be pursued by professionals, because they will do it better, because they will also make it cheaper and they will not make mistakes that will make trusted people, as you say. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Enough nepotism in companies of the State Treasury. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u157	Thank you so much for putting yourself in time. Mr... Excuse me, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, club Law and Justice. Excuse me, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u158	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Law and Justice in the elections to the Sejm presented to Poles a specific program, which gained acceptance of voters. This programme was strongly criticised by the current opposition. I have a question: Is it possible, in your opinion, to implement government policy based on the Law and Justice Programme without changing the existing management boards, which included PO and PSL officers? Second question: What was the previous cooperation with the former Boards of State Treasury companies? Next question: What are the criteria for the Minister's appointment as members of company boards, e.g. Industrial Development Agency? At this point, I would also like to refer to Mr Owl's statement. I understand your frustration and your powerlessness, but don't give any lying information in your statements. You mentioned the current chairman of the board of the salt mine in Wieliczka. The Commission, which was set up, a committee of the Higher Mining Authority, composed of several scientists, assessed positively the work of the President of the salt mine in Wieliczka in connection with the elimination of the leak. This committee has even ordered further action, to continue these activities in order to secure the mine. No inspection showed bad management of the salt mine in Wieliczka at that time. Please use all your expertise, not just one scientist who has expressed a separate opinion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u159	Thank you very much for the timing, Madame. Mr. Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u160	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say that I admire the president's pretorian, which is Minister Jackowski, who... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the hall: Jackiewicz.]] ...can be seen in public, not only in the Seym, but in all the citizens who can watch this session, just... [[Voice from the room: Who are you talking about?]] ...telling things he certainly doesn't believe in. [[Voice from the room: You're talking about yourself.]] Well, Minister, you had a problem getting in time. Four minutes, 30 seconds, you were talking about what used to be. And that's your method. Whoever asks whether a journalist or anyone, the Prime Minister, ministers and politicians of PiS, always tells us what happened. They never talk about what's going on. How do they make this good change? They do it in a tragic way. Tragic, because, Minister, you just don't seem to have the authority to be a minister. If you say so, your words show that the only criterion is trust, which means you have no idea what management is. Trust is needed and a condition, but competence is a fundamental element. You haven't said a word about the powers you've appointed. When it comes to how the representatives of various companies, companies, are selected, I will give you an example from the very beginning of November, Mr. Daniel Obajtek, who became the president of the agency, one of the most important agencies, because he has a large amount of money, an agricultural modernisation agency. Well, the man who has the charges, the corruption charges, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Charges of taking bribes...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u161	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u162	...he's competent, he's trusting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u163	Uh, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u164	Mr Piotrowicz is a hero, just as the Minister will be a hero...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u165	Mr Jarosław Sachaika...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u166	...the distribution of the Polish economy. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u167	...Kukiz Club15. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The agricultural environments in Lublin express their deep concern about the personal changes that took place at the beginning of the year in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. One example was the dismissal of the agency manager in Krasnystaw by Mr Andrzej Grabek, who, among the local community, enjoyed support and trust and was perceived by employees as a very competent person. Within two days, local communities gathered about 300 signatures asking for Mr Grabek's manager. The current position of the head of the district office in Krasnystaw was taken by Mr Mieczysław Kowalik, who is an unhappy person with good reputation among farmers. According to the content of the letter that reached my office, Mr Mieczysław Kowalik in the past, as an employee of the district office in Krasnystaw, committed to forging the signatures of farmers. At a time when he worked in the sugar beet cluster in Mościska in the municipality of Rudnik, he was to lower the weight of beet and was then released. In his current position as head of the office, he is accused of lack of commitment and competence and of returning farmers with unfinished business. According to the letter presented, the current manager uses mobbing to the subordinates by intimidating the possibility of dismissal. Such an example is Mrs. Ilona S., who is pregnant with an advanced pregnancy. The stress of this job and intimidation led to the premature birth and death of her child. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] In view of the above, please read the information provided and state why Mr Andrzej Grabek was released. Isn't it just because he doesn't belong to the PiS? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u169	Thank you so much for your time. Mr Marek Polak, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome... [[I am, Your Marshal, I am.]] Ah! You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u170	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In my view, it is clear that groups or groups who, as a result of democratic elections, have taken over power and want to implement the announced programme and action plan must do so through people who feel, want and will pursue the vision of a given group or coalition. It is difficult to carry out such an important task with the help of representatives appointed by the former coalition or decommissioned group. This was the case when the Democratic Left Alliance ruled the country, and so it was during the PO-PSL coalition, when over 6.5 thousand were appointed during the 7 years of Prime Minister Donald Tusk's office. new managers. I have a question that I would like to address to the representative of the applicants. I would like to ask whether applicants see the possibility of effectively implementing the electoral programme of the governing group through representatives appointed by decommissioned teams at the highest levels both in the administration and in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u171	Thank you very much, sir, also for the smooth task of the question. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The employment of families, friends and acquaintances of politicians of the ruling party, i.e. people of a better sort, is underway. Sometimes they have no qualifications or experience, and work is given in accordance with the principles: mediocre, passive, but faithful. This condition can also be described as a family on its own. The fact that Minister Ziobra's wife has a lucrative position [[Applause]] in a company subject to a state insurer, it's just a profiling of this type of situation. Examples can be multiplied. Minister Waszczykowski's brother, acting as Head of the Tax Control Office in Łódź, was elected to this position without competition. At 324 heads of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, everyone was fired in one time: February 4 to accept theirs. They were competent, substantive, well prepared to spend EU funds, even highly rated by the PiS, but nevertheless to make room for their own, they were released. It's so-called. A good change... [[Not the Ministry.]] ...entered by PiS in companies and state institutions. In the field of filling posts with their own people, the PiS works extremely well. I would therefore like to ask about the total amount of checks paid to persons who have been expelled from their posts and functions. How much is that going to be? And what is the cost of this good change for the state budget? I'm asking for a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u173	Thank you very much, Member, for being time-bound. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The result of recent elections is that Law and Justice have a majority in the Sejm. This was because the Poles trusted you, they believed in this good change. But now very often we see that this good change affects mostly people directly related to the PiS. There are many such cases, including in my district, which is why I don't think there's any point in mentioning them all here. However, I would like to ask why you are entering the same shoes that the Civic Platform has so far been walking behind the handle with PSL. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club, please ask me another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From the press information we can learn that during the period preceding the parliamentary elections in many companies of the State Treasury and state institutions there were casts of staff and changes in employment contracts or contracts. These included: on the fact that supervisory boards have introduced provisions on the prohibition of competition, e.g. the payment of monthly, going in hundreds of thousands of zloty compensations. This was the case, for example. in the case of the President of Radio Kielce. The prohibition of competition was to be introduced in the autumn when it was known that the PiS would win the parliamentary elections. A similar case concerned three others: the editor-in-chief and two directors. The former Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Radio Kielce, when asked about this situation, was oblivious, although he admitted that the Board could approve minor changes of a cosmetic nature. I have a question for the applicants. Would they tolerate in the supervisory boards people who have memory problems and think that the amount of more than 100,000. What's the big deal? Furthermore, in listening to today's speeches, especially among the Members of the Civic Platform, I would like them to reach out to an interesting article that was published in 2011 in a prestigious magazine called Forbes. It says that there was a former co-operative Grabarczyk, that there was an informal arrangement between Minister Schetin and Minister Aleksander Grad, who decided to fill the posts without considering the qualifications of the people. That's why I have a question: Minister, isn't it what He said to them: "The Devil is dressed." Is he calling in the ornament and his tail for Mass? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u177	I would like to ask Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome. And thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u178	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have heard from the rapporteur the words of President Jarosław Kaczyński from the election campaign: The fight against nepotism will be a priority. And this is one of the few promises of the Law and Justice that has been fulfilled. It's true. You are fighting the fact that in Poland until now nepotism has been virtually eliminated at every step. Today it enters through doors and windows, legally, to everyone, not only to companies of the Treasury, but wherever possible. The Minister was kind in his speech to say that the effective supervision of the state's assets you want at the moment to have through the exchange of staff, to which you did not have confidence, and the most important element of the speech was that those who at the moment include positions are to enjoy the confidence of the Minister - and, of course, the trust of the President, we understand that. I have a question: Where are the competences? I understand that if a new power comes, it fills its people with positions at this point and in places where something doesn't work well. But why did you go where it was best from the beginning and as if you had gone from the beginning? The Wieliczka Salt Mine - the best results in Europe for this type of company - horse studs, very well functioning agencies, local agricultural market agencies, other such activities which had a very high social assessment and very high assessment of independent, including foreign, representatives and committees. [[Especially.]] That's where you gave the change first. What else is gonna happen? We don't know. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question is short.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u179	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u180	What are the costs for the taxpayer of these supposedly-good changes? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u181	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Bartosz Józwiak to ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna repeat a question that came up. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] in Mr Tomasz Jaskoly's speech, because the Minister very carefully escaped the answer to this question. You have spoken a lot about the abolition of bureaucracy, but you have not referred to this basic charge in which we talked about the competences of the newly filled or members of the boards of companies, or the CEOs of these companies. You have recently mentioned very often the plans to create a national holding company and the fact that the supervision of these holding companies, these companies, should be more professional and more effective - one which, as a result, could compete, would allow them to compete with private entities. I have a question: How do these specific nominations go about this? I just ask the Minister not to answer me on the principle that our actions justify the fact that others did the same or worse, because it's always an answer that tries to hide the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u183	Thank you very much for the smooth task of the question. Mr Jacek Sasin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u184	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we hear a lot of words in this Chamber, how badly this is happening in the Ministry of the Treasury and in general in the state business sector under the rule of law and justice. But somehow those who utter these words do not want to accept the facts, namely what has been going on in this area in the last eight years, and especially that at that time... [[Voice from the room: We'll read about it in a minute.]] ...respectful state - yes, I know that you are annoyed by this, but I am speaking to you precisely, above all those who have ruled for the last 8 years, i.e. the Civic Platform and the PSL - you have made yourselves of the Treasury companies a cash cow for your political ventures and for your politicians. [[Now to Jarek...]] Questions... What am I talking about? Here you go, facts. Is the case of the Institute of Strategic Studies Foundation located in Krakow known, Minister? This is a think tank that deals with security issues. Anna Szymańska-Klich took the lead after the parliamentary elections won by the PO in November 2007. In this way she replaced her husband Bogdan Klich, the influential policy of the Platform, who then assumed the position of Minister of National Defence. And there's nothing wrong with that... [[Yeah, sure.]] ...please, this is a social institution that can be run by anyone who wants to. But somehow it happened that between 2008 and 2013 - because only for those years did this foundation boast about who it was getting the money from - 5700 thousand. PLN obtained for its projects from the public business sector, from companies such as PKN Orlen, PZU, Polish Armed Group, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa... [[What is this compared to 26 million?]] ... Katowice Holding Coal, Kraków Airport, as well as... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u185	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u186	...other companies. Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u187	The next question will be asked by Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u188	...or is there such a case known to the Minister... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] ...and whether it's the only case or... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u189	Thank you very much, sir. Next question - Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Next question - Ms Agnieszka Chcaj, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a quick question. What are the criteria for employing workers of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, especially those for EU funds? According to our information due to bad staff policy, unfortunately, people are employed without appropriate authority, without appropriate examinations. This situation threatens to completely paralyze the payment of EU subsidies for 2016. Especially farmers in Wrocław have been explained by delays - in writing - in various technical difficulties. Do these technical problems result from the expulsion of agency officials and, unfortunately, replacing them with party activists without any qualifications, appropriate examinations and experience? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u191	Thank you, Madam President, for the extremely efficient task of the question. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, is there still an audit and when can we expect... In particular, it may be a more approximate deadline, it is a month, and it is the results of this audit. And is the information provided by the media regarding the use of business credit cards by company boards true? Please inform me if you are planning to significantly reduce practices such as cards without a limit, a monthly limit for small expenditure of 50,000. zł, because this, as far as I know, is very shocking to company crews and employees, where public funds are being wasted in this way. Is it true that at the beginning of November the authorities of PKP Intercity signed an agreement with a media purchasing company - it must be added that the authorities that were immediately cancelled - for image actions? The agreement was to start operating from September this year for the next 9 months, and almost the entire amount was distributed within one month - in December last year. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u193	Thank you for the smooth task of the question. Please, Mrs Bożena Kaminska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Referring to my region, the Podlaskie voivodship, I could indeed mention many examples of so-called. a good change, which in fact is a very bad change, adverse and detrimental to the social interest. I would like to focus on the change concerning the issue: Polish horse and so-called. a good change of Law and Justice, because this concerns the still loud issue of the stud in Janów Podlaski and the stud in Michałów. The presidents of these two famous Arabian horse studs are Mr Marek Trela, who has been associated with the Janów Podlaski Stud since 1978, and Mr Jerzy Białobok, who has been associated with the Michałów Stud since 1977. For more than 30 years they worked for these studs, having been successful in the international arena. They've been canceled by the new head of the Agricultural Property Agency. I would like to stress that these people were not politically related to the Civic Platform, nor to the Polish People's Party. These people have been associated with these studs since the beginning of their professional life. The environment of horse breeders, as we read in the media and not only, is agitated, but not only the society that is related to the breeding of horses, also the Polish society or inhabitants of the Podlaskie voivodship. I have questions: What were the substantive conditions regarding the cancellation of such experienced breeders of Polish Arabian horses, which are, after all, part of our national heritage? Did the Minister offer such highly qualified specialists other positions... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u195	Thank you very much, Member. [[The Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the messenger speaks with the microphone off.]] Thank you, Member. We have five minutes left to finish asking questions, so we still have plenty of time. Are you able to speak after a minute, or will I have to speak to the others? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u196	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Konrad Kłopotowski, who has so far engaged in the business of fixing televisions and fixing intercoms, has called on the head of the county's office of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture Konrad Kłopotowski, who has been a party officer of Law and Justice for many years, head of district structures. In this regard, I have written a speech to the Minister of Agriculture through a number of voices that were coming from the voters of Law and Justice who were outraged by this situation. In response to the interpellation, I did not obtain an answer to the key questions concerning the qualification for this particular position, as well as in the media information which the district representative of PiS gave, namely that he was elected by elimination. There was no competition for this position, so to that, let's face it, he lied. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Are you able to guarantee, as Law and Justice, that you will take full responsibility for any irregularities in connection with decisions that incompetent persons who have no experience on your behalf will take as managers of important public institutions? And is the current law and justice team guided by one of the many life maxims already mentioned by the district attorney of Law and Justice, namely: micha is the most important? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u197	Thank you. And the last Member, who has two minutes to ask a question, is Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have won elections and it is natural that the key positions include new people. These are people with appropriate qualifications and competences, and I do not mean education and work placement. In the offices, institutions or companies covered by the State Treasury there are audits of the closure balance sheet or, as the case may be, the opening balance sheet. Therefore, I have a question for the applicants: How do they imagine doing an audit if they are not trusted by the government, recommended and known in our environment? Are these supposed to be people from POs and PSLs? And one more question for the applicants. As Members, you have no experience yet because you are Members for the first time... [[Oh, Jesus.]] ...and directional education, too, because there are no such schools. Does that mean you don't have the qualifications and competence? [[Applause]] [[Preschooler.]] [[Bravo!]] [[Embarrassing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u199	Thank you very much. We have 12 Members left. If we're gonna make an appointment to ask a question after a minute, I'm gonna let the whole twelve, if not, then we're gonna get to the question. We assume we're asking a question after a minute. That way it'll be 12 minutes. But if I say... [[It's awful short.]] Unfortunately, it's 90 minutes, which is why I told you at first that if you talk longer, there will be a problem with your colleagues at the end. And your friends, of course. One minute. So it's 12 minutes together. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u200	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The question concerns the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, the budget - 30 billion. I don't think there's anything in the world that's not listed like that. In the Wielkopolska Voivodeship, in 31 district branches of the agencies, eight were filled so that their employees were employees of agencies with different experience and predispositions. That doesn't mean it's a good decision. But in the middle of nowhere, it's a good call. In eight, they are a minimum of random persons who do not have any professional training. Saws, Czarnków, Leszno, Słupca, Wągrowiec, Śrem and Oborniki. There's a person in Oborniki who put up posters. [[Well, well deserved!]] These are people, decisions that must cost the economy. Currently, the best plants in Poland, including individual farmers, are without money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] This is the result of this element. [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[You made it.]] [[The voice from the hall: But you went!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u201	There was a minute. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u202	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I liked your speech very much, and I especially pointed out that the president of a company had been... resigned. It kind of fits into the governance style you talked about with us on the occasion of 100 days of the PiS government when, according to radio reports, you said: No member of the supervisory board, no president, no board can be calm and confident that whatever its function and position are untouchable and inviolable. In this connection, I have a brief question: Is the matter of the Wrocław company Dozamel known to you, where employees demand changes in the supervisory board? They even sent a letter to the Minister on this matter. Unfortunately, the answer was given by the Director, not by the Minister. Then I take advantage of the opportunity that you are here. Are you familiar with this matter, and do you allow it to be possible, at the request of employees, to also make changes in supervisory boards, on boards of companies with the State Treasury? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u203	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u204	Minister, do the newly appointed or employed persons in the Treasury companies have employment contracts on the basis of which they will be paid all the contributions to the Social Security Office or, as was the case under the PO-PSL regime, concluded contracts which allowed for the avoidance of this obligation and did not pay all the contributions from the Social Security Office? How important this may be for the budget, I don't have to convince. Second question: Were the contracts of newly appointed or employed persons in companies with the participation of the Treasury of the remuneration somehow dependent on the results? I'm not just talking about financial results, but for example. to maintain or increase employment, because these issues in EU documents, in aid programmes from the European Union, are strongly stressed, but I have the impression that someone has not been very concerned so far. If not, does the Minister intend to introduce such rules? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The common feature of the cases discussed here, apart from the fact that it is the PiS family, is the improbable breach of the thresholds of competence by nominated persons. [[Lack of competence.]] And here's the question, Minister: Would you be kind enough to describe these procedures? Would you be kind enough to answer in writing what they look like when they give such results? The thing is not trivial, a few examples. Dariusz Kaśków, Vice President of ENERGY SA, until now head of the Branice's professional activity facility, previously, under previous PiS governments employed for several weeks in KGHM, the beneficiary of a powerful check-in. And here's the case, Opole Power Plant. Does it really have to be that we need to establish on-call electricity for this serious position at the power plant, where there is an investment for 13 billion PLN? Isn't that a primordial joke? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause he's supposed to be on April 1st? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u207	Mr Stefan Rometki. You're welcome. Let me remind you that this is one minute, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A messenger from the Platform has already taken a few words from me here to tell me about the stud, so I'm gonna ask you a question. High Izbo, is calling to the most important positions of people without the experience of breeding horses a prescription for the alleged mistakes of very experienced predecessors? I will add from myself, on the example of the city of Koszalin, that one party is worth another. There's still a platform in Koszalin that owns budget companies, supervisory boards, [[Applause]] And then the city hall, the committees, even the council... I will tell you this, I say this to the people of Western Pomerania, and today I will tell my fellow countrymen: the only alternative to repairing the state is Paweł Kukiz. [[Applause]] and the Kukiz movement15. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u209	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Malik, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u210	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The country in the Kukiz club15 is unaware of what has happened over the past 8 years. Namely, since the government reform in Poland, i.e. since 1989, no government in our country has had such a boot, such a nerve in staff policy... [[Like a piss.]] ...on the supervision of state assets like the PO-PSL government. [[Oh, no.]] With a huge budget deficit, a huge public debt, which was largely generated by the government, the state administration's apparatus was constantly being expanded to the extent that over 100,000 more than eight years of government of PO-PSL were employed in the state administration. officials. And Prime Minister Tusk entered his office with the slogans for cutting office posts... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u211	Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, please. Another question, thank you, Member. [[Thank you very much.]] [[I'm afraid I didn't make it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm not talking about party nepotism and guys anymore, because it's already been established, and I'd like to refer to Lublin companies, because it's mostly about me. It is about PGE Distribution, Bogdanka, Azota or the Lublin Wholesale Market. So I quickly made a list, it turned out that out of more than 30 people changed, called - I will not read the names of these people, there is no need to stigmatize them, because it is not their fault that they were called there, only it is your fault that you called them there - 2 people, Andrzej Pruszkowski and Jan Frania, you can say, have the competence to be there. This is a very weak result. That's a 6% result. , Minister. No private owner would keep a manager who has such poor performance in the appointment of personnel. It is mainly about PGE Distribution: Will it stay in Lublin? It's about Bogdanka. Will Bogdanka have to be eliminated to save Silesia? It's about Puławy Azotes. Will Tarnów take over the Puławy Azotas because it's... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u213	Mr Paweł Skutecki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will not refer to personalities, because so many names have already been mentioned here, that it would be possible to put together a golden book of Polish political business. I would like to ask the Minister two more general questions. During your speech, you said a rather curiosity to me that the headship of companies of the Treasury, companies - still business - must have the political trust of your party. Do you think about going any further? You've canceled the competitions, maybe even cancel the tenders if that trust is the most important thing. [[Don't tell me.]] Second question. You refer to the ethos of the first old Solidarity. Don't you think it would be nice to get the parties out of work today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u216	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, not only your resort, but also other resorts are currently carrying out audits on many levels, in many companies, in many companies. For example, the Minister of Energy has set up a social audit team. At the head of this audit team are Members or Senators. In these teams are also appointed staff of ministries, maybe many other ministers. Tell me what the value of this is in social perception. What is the value of this audit? I do not hide that it strikes with the Workers' and Boys' Inspection from the time of the Polish United Workers' Party, when it is at the head of such a team that an officer of the appropriate party rank and it is to adapt the conclusions to the pre-positioned thesis. The social value of receiving this document is minimal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask the Minister... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[It's so tidy today.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u217	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Jakubiak. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u218	But order today. High Seym! Platform to PiS: You employ thousands of people. PiS to Platform: Yes, but you hired them before. He should show up at PSL and say, "Nepotism is what we say: no." [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's just that it's all starting to look like a cabaret. Ladies and gentlemen, we must separate the executive authority from the legislative authority. You can clearly see that this is coercion. It has to be that way to keep things healthy. Now, a question for the Minister. Minister, I would ask you very much to answer this question: How much have you reduced the salaries of members of the Treasury companies, of course, excluding those made redundant? I don't think I'm gonna ask you how many members of the law and justice party have recently gotten a job in State Treasury companies because you're probably not gonna answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u219	Thank you very much. The Kukiz Club15 is extremely efficient in asking questions. Now, Mr Piotr Appeal, I ask you for further questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u220	I'm afraid I'm gonna break the average.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u221	Then I'll take your voice, that's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u222	Minister, I have a question because I understand that you talk a lot about trust, about the implementation of the program, so I won't ask about competence, because this, I understand, doesn't matter, but about a story. In 2014, a member of the PiS took a trip to Crimea. The bad luck was that there was a referendum there. Bad luck was that he was in the international group that believed the Crimean accession referendum to Russia. Let me just remind you that the referendum was negative for the European Union, also for our government. What is this former Member of the PiS doing now? He's in Tauron Ekoservis' energy company. The question to the Minister is: Is it possible to trust someone who has acted so openly in favour of Russia? Is this how Poland's energy independence is to be built? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u223	And yet, the Member fits in in time. The last one is Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, also from the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! There's been a lot of talk about the past, that you got that position, that position, and I have a question about the future. We are on the eve of the establishment of the Polish Mining Group with the participation of companies of the State Treasury, so I have a question: Will there finally be a change to real managers who will manage Polish mines in a reasonable, factual and substantive manner, ensuring the energy security of the country? Will this be taken into account? I will also refer to the words of the previous speaker from the Platform - here the hypocrisy reached the zenith - who said that the audits were done correctly earlier. I took part in one of the audits, did it socially and as well as possible. The platform performed such audits for PLN 45 million in a few years. So this is the translation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u225	Your question has ended the list of questions. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Jaskola. You're welcome. I remind you, sir, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u226	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! However, I will return to our colleague Mark Jakubiak's question. I would ask the Minister to inform us in writing how many members of the Law and Justice have received nominations to the Treasury companies since the elections were won, so that we can compare this number of employees. However, I will not speak of hypocrisy, of course, because unfortunately you are entering the same shoes as the Platform and the PSL, and this is also what Mr Marek Jakubiak said. It's gotta stop now. I feel a little sorry for the Minister because I don't know if you understood what the intention was with regard to current information. We were directing this information to Prime Minister Szydło. Why? Because we want to see the actual state of the state, not just companies of the Treasury. Please note that our Council of Ministers is one of the largest in Europe. One of the largest is Britain, but there are such historic ministries, such ministers as Lord Guardian of the five towers, fortresses, Lord Chancellor of the Dukeship of Lancaster, ladies and gentlemen. Unless, of course, we call a ministry like this. Ladies and gentlemen! For us, professionalism is what matters. I would not underestimate even a little trust, trust is of course important in the company, but the professionalism of the tasks of the State Treasury, professionalism and competence are more important than trust. And for us, that's absolutely the most important thing. As far as your Member is concerned, he is not from the PSL, he has moved that I have called him a socialist unbeliever. I promise I won't make that mistake. I think Mr Kasprzycki - I will call him a socialist believer from today. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Kasprzak.]] But I'd like to show you one more path, because what you're doing here today, and I'm slightly denying the right to vote for PSL and the Platform... I was really hoping that the piss would lead to a change, and he walked into the same shoes. Because the disease penetrates from this parliament into local governments, up to 2.5 thousand. local governments. I know it's not government competence, but let me give you a concrete example: 2.5 thousands. local governments are overwhelmed by party arrangements. And I will surprise you: there, ladies and gentlemen, Law and Justice, SLD, Platform, PSL, together in municipal companies of citizens. Do you want specific examples? Okay, Częstochowa. You have recently had Mr Mark Balt's SLD vice-president. This is the man who says about himself that he is an outstanding professional, but unfortunately did not find employment in the free market, while he found employment in a municipal company in Częstochowa Komunalny. A week later, unfortunately, the son of Mr Szymon Giżyński was employed in the same municipal company. And you're teaching, and you're showing at every stage that legitimacy, fidelity is what counts, and this emblem, which should properly be called a coat of arms, and loyalty to citizens is really of little importance. It shocks me because I'm not a politician, I'm a citizen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u227	You're welcome. Thank you, sir. I ask the Minister of Treasury of Mr. David Jackiewicz to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I will address the questions that Members have asked, or the statements they have made here, and in the second part, if time permits, I will finish my speech, which your marshal interrupted at some point. I hope it will be a good summary of what we are discussing today. There was a question about salaries in companies of the Treasury, in particular, about the former Minister of Treasury of Mr Alexander Grad. For the period between February 2014 and October 2015, Minister Aleksander Grad collected the remuneration of 2340 thousand. Evil for working in Tauron. The remuneration in other entities in which he worked - for example. Polish Nuclear Energy Group - I do not have information, but probably around an amount similar to the one I just mentioned. Pathologies - Mrs Nemś was surprised and questioned my critical assessment of the costs incurred by one of the important companies of the Treasury to develop a strategy that counted 50 pages and cost 950 thousand. zł. This strategy and many others which were ordered in this company, together with several million zlotys, led the company to the fact that today its result is negative, is a loss of 300 million zlotys. The company's on the verge of bankruptcy. That's what your party buddies paid $900,000 for. Evil and bigger. Radio Szczecin. The question here was whether the doubts raised by Mr Furga - whether these are new habits, that members of supervisory boards work elsewhere or employees of various types of companies and institutions sit on supervisory boards. There is no contraindications, my dear country, that someone who works, does any work in any way, on the basis of a contract of employment or in any other formula, should sit on the supervisory board. The supervisory board does not eliminate the possibility of taking up employment elsewhere. There are no such restrictions in the light of the law in force in our country. And it would also be irrational, because it is precisely this knowledge that often comes from working in other places, in companies, entities, businesses, that allows us to function efficiently in supervisory boards. The use of this knowledge is often very useful. [[Exactly.]] There was a question about Mr. Olechnovich whether there would be a change in this position. Mr Olechnowicz's work will be evaluated by the board of directors. We will soon know whether the supervisory board of this company will continue to cooperate with Mr Olechnowicz and the entire board of Lotos. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, if I wrote my name correctly - sorry if I was wrong - from the Polish People's Party... [[Okay, okay.]] ...disputed the quality, the professionalism of our personnel. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like a little restraint. You are responsible for the state of Polish mining. You were in charge of these companies. Here you can see your professionalism, this is where today hiccups with complete lack of knowledge, ignorance, inability to manage this extremely important area or sector for the energy security of the country. Audits. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, audits are ongoing in each company at a different rate depending on the size of the entity, depending on the complicated situation, on the complexity of the situation we have encountered in these entities. They are ongoing in those entities which have successfully led to changes in supervisory boards, because the previous supervisory boards did not intend to carry out audits that would affect their activities in recent years. Therefore, in order to have a fair knowledge of what was happening in the companies of the State Treasury, it was necessary and became necessary to change the members, compositions of supervisory boards. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a question about pay. I want to put this as carefully as possible, because it is quite sensitive information, but since it was recently published, I want to answer this question directly. Were they established companies of the State Treasury outside the country that would allow additional earnings by the presidents of the State Treasury companies? Yeah, we have a few examples of that. We analyze them, we examine whether this was the main idea or the intention of setting up these companies of the Treasury. One of the doubts - here I will mention the name - raises the fact that President Olechnowicz, just mentioned by me, in the country, as President of Lotos, achieved a salary of 236 thousand. PLN, while in subsidiaries 1173 thousand. zł. This makes an impression, although I do not yet want to put a dot over and that it was a kind of formula for achieving additional earnings. Marshal Marek Owa asked about how to select members of the Supervisory Board... [[Boards.]] ...managers and expressed concern about politicising companies of the Treasury. Mr. Marshal! You served as Marshal of the Małopolska Voivodship, but at the same time you were a member of the Supervisory Board of the Krynica-Żegiest Spa. I don't think you should ask such questions. [[Why?]] Mrs Elżbieta Borowska asked about Mr Kazimierz Drzazga, she actually alleged that she did not have the right experience, knowledge to sit in the company. I'm talking about the Board of Maritime Ports of Szczecin and Świnoujście. Please check carefully before you draw up such concerns and concerns. Please approach the case honestly, not only to use the press reports, but to take the trouble and look at the documents. They are often available online. Mr Kazimierz Drzazga was a member of the Board of Maritime Ports of Szczecin and Świnoujście in 2006 and in 2009 he started working as a representative of the Management Board of Szczecin and Świnoujście. He has knowledge and experience about these entities, so we use his experience and knowledge also today. It's a really small effort to check before you make that kind of accusation. Another question. Mrs Rutkowska accuses ignorance, because that was probably the wording of the appointed members of the board of directors in the energy groups. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the market has verified and evaluated the appointed people to energy groups, to those companies which are extremely important for the energy security of our country, for the functioning of the Polish economy. I'd like to quote the data. The listing of the Stock Exchange, the listing of the shares of these companies after the change: Orlen - since the change of the company's president on 15 December, the shares of the company increased by 13.5%, Tauron - the change in the position of the CEO took place on 8 December, the next day the share price increased by 9.3% and today the valuation of the shares of the company increased by 27%, KGHM - after the change of the board on 3 February the price of the shares of the company increased by 31.8% to today total. and the value of the company increased by PLN 3.6 billion. If we are talking about market verification, by the most sensitive verification mechanism, how the company is managed, how the investment plans are implemented, whether the management board and the supervisory board finally meet their hopes, if we are talking about it, then let's look at ENEA. Following changes in the Management Board on 7 January, the company's shares increased by 15.1% in this period until today. PZU - the change of president took place on January 19th, today the price of shares is 10.6% higher and the value of the company increased by almost PLN 3 billion, please. [[Applause]] Please, before you start articulating these kinds of allegations, do this exercise and see how the market reacts, which is the mechanism that, even if you were accusing us of not knowing what politicisation, we have no influence. These are experts, these are individual investors, these are those people and those institutions that are really not subject to political pressure, no matter how you wish them to be, dear countries, so as to assign such a charge to us. Ladies and gentlemen! I know time is running out. Unfortunately, I will not answer all the questions, especially those concerning the competences of other ministers. I know the Minister of Agriculture has decided...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u229	Minister, wait a minute. I'm extending your time by five minutes because I want you to answer all your questions. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u230	Thank you very much. Then I'll try as hard as I can to answer. There was a question about the Industrial Development Agency, about the president of Chludzinski. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what these doubts arise about many of our appointed members of the supervisory boards and many appointed by the supervisory boards or directly by the Treasury of the members of the boards. You are trying today - some, because I do not want to generalize - some try to enchant reality by saying: drama, scandal, lack of competence, lack of authority, lack of experience and knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen! 99%, if you look at this list, these are the people who worked in this industry, who are lawyers, economists, financiers, managers from education and experience. These are people who have many years of experience working in managerial and managerial positions. I apologize for the colloquialism, but clinging to a few, maybe a dozen or so names, which is just a beam in a whole powerful group of people with functions in supervisory boards and boards, is abuse, is manipulation. You're trying to make it look like these people didn't have the authority. And here's the question: Do you, for example? Mr Jacek Glory, who is a physiotherapist by education, has the right to sit on the supervisory board of the Polish Holding Real Estate company? Ladies and gentlemen, this man and many other people, to be precise, all of whom we have nominated for the board of directors, have the appropriate authority confirmed by a passed exam before the committee... [[State.]] ...which has been operating for the last 20 years in the Ministry of Treasury and which rigorously during the oral and written examination when 150 questions are asked and must answer at least 100 questions, and these are very difficult exams, verify knowledge, skills, knowledge of law, accounting before giving anyone the right to sit on supervisory boards. And that's your authority, Mr. Jacek Glory. And please separate it from whether someone's a nurse, a physiotherapist, a manager, a financier, a law professor or a truck driver. It doesn't matter, because that way we don't verify the usefulness. [[They have the right.]] This usefulness, ladies and gentlemen, is verified by a successful examination, a very difficult examination before the State Commission, certifying that these persons have knowledge and will be able to carry out the tasks entrusted to them in the supervisory boards. [[Applause]] You can appreciate that. Marcin Chludziński, who is the president of the Industrial Development Agency, is a graduate of the Centre of European Regional and Local Studies and the Faculty of Journalism and Political Sciences of the University of Warsaw. Since 2006, he has been the CEO of company boards, experienced in financing investment projects, strategic advice, project management, and is a licensed trainer and advisor. He specializes in managing advisory projects and cooperates with public administration and business. He constantly cooperates as a lecturer with the University of Warsaw, the Collegium Civitas, the University of Łazar. Moreover, I will say that one of the people who initiated today's discussion, Marshal Tyszka, cooperated with Mr Chludzinski, with Mr Chludzinski at the Centre for Analysis of the Republican Foundation and I heard many times how she praised his competence, knowledge and skills. Make up your mind. [[But absolutely, absolutely, Minister, he didn't mention Mr. Chludzinski's name...]] If someone is a colleague of the honourable states, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, does he deserve to sit on supervisory boards and boards? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if he's not a friend, I understand he's being criticized? Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. There was a question today, so I want to answer your question about President Chludzinski. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas asked about the competitions. He said it would be good for them to be in force. The competitions were fiction, ladies and gentlemen. They were a smokescreen for political decision-making, personal political decisions which were justified by the alleged procedure, a transparent competition procedure. In fact, these competitions were often overlooked. The best example of such omission of the decision of the competition committee was the election of the President of the Polish Airlines LOT Mr Sebastian Mikosz, who did not participate in the competition procedure, who did not participate in it, but at some point the Minister of the Treasury, when he received a list on which you were not the President of Sebastian Mikosz, threw this list into the basket and discreetly decided to appoint Mr Mikosz as President of LOT. This is how competition procedures were treated, supposedly reliable, transparent, which were intended to make the appointment public, reveal how they were appointed to supervisory boards. Mr Józef Lassota of the Civic Platform accused me of talking for four minutes and 30 seconds about the past. Ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Platform has spoken for eight years about the past. [[Exactly.]] A little decency, please. For eight years, you've been distracting yourself from the economic problems, from the catastrophic situation of some of the entities I've supervised, throwing responsibility on their predecessors. [[Applause]] For the first 8 months, you were unable to make any decision to save the Polish shipbuilding industry, which as a result of your governments remained completely eliminated in our country. For eight months, you didn't make a decision, and when the disaster happened, you said it was your predecessors' fault. Bad weather was the fault of your predecessors, and you're telling me today, folks, that when I answer your questions for four minutes and 30 seconds, I refer to the past? If you want, I'll tell you about the future. During our reign we will end this Byzantium, with those courts that took place in the companies of the Treasury. The payroll bill we're introducing is already ready. The legislative procedure is about to begin. It limits the remuneration of the Presidents of State Treasury companies and members of supervisory boards in a discretionary manner, i.e. It's the same as it is to this day. Do you want to know what it looked like to this day? Well, ladies and gentlemen, the former President of Orlen has already achieved a salary - well, I will speak from memory, I hope I will not mistake the amount - in 1 year more than 6 million PLN. Is that the honesty you're talking about? Are you protesting this? Against this shift? [[Not enough for them.]] Yes, I choose people in such a way that they have the authority to pass exams to the board of supervisors so that they can have experience. Don't enter, don't insert, don't put words like that in my mouth: trust is all that matters. That's not true. It's all about competence and trust. The trust that is needed to prevent these people from treating these companies as their own kingdoms in which everything can be done. At the taxpayer's expense, you can buy new limos every year, you can buy private health insurance at the taxpayer's expense, at the expense of this company [[♪ The bell ♪]] and its investors, shareholders pay, collect salaries and check-in in the order of several million zlotys per year. Ladies and gentlemen, this ends. And we'll guarantee it. The bill's almost ready. It was we who taxed checks and salaries for such presidents who, after a year's work, received 3 million PLN of checks. We're making two rules, ladies and gentlemen. We choose the people we take responsibility for, we do not hide behind the pseudo-competitions and we speak very clearly, I apologize for the colloquialism: there are no sacred cows. If someone gets hurt if someone doesn't pursue the economic interests of our country, if someone treats the company as a private farm, if someone goes there just for mercantile reasons to earn a lot of money...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u231	Minister, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u232	I'm finishing up, Marshal. I'm asking for a moment more of your understanding. ...can be canceled at any time. Because there are no cooperatives like they were during the Civic Platform, that when someone was on the Supervisory Board, and there was, for example, From Mr. Caesar Grabarczyk, he was untouchable, and when he was from Minister Schetin, he was not allowed to look at him. There are no such presidents, supervisory boards and companies of the Treasury in which no change could be made if we consider this to be contrary to the economic interests of our country. [[Kaczynski.]] Loyalty to the government is one of the criteria, because such a person must identify with the economic agenda of his country, not as it was in recent times. Because a few weeks ago we caught - once again I apologize for the colloquialism - such a situation that in one of the strategic companies, in PGNiG, one of the key functions, one of the key positions was filled by a man who cooperated with Gazprom, and in the contract that was concluded, had a clear ban on competition and work for Gazprom. This is over, ladies and gentlemen, and I ask you to appreciate it and not criticize us for it. Let's get on with more serious business than looking for a hole in the whole thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u233	Thank you very much, Minister. This statement ends... [[Can I correct it?]] [[Your marshal, your name has come up. Me, too.]] No. I will only give the floor to the applicant's representative... [[There's a name.]] ...because these were questions, not statements of the parties. Only you, the applicant's representative. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u234	Dear Marshal! Minister! I have used the wording, the statement that in many cases your nominations are nominated very positive persons. One of these people is Mr. Marcin Chludziński, who is an outstanding specialist, and that is what I want to confirm. Thank you. [[Minister of Treasury David Jackiewicz: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u235	And what is your point? Corrections? [[A corrigendum of the information you gave the Minister.]] That's not gonna happen. [[Game in the O.R.]] If you'll allow me to finish, I'd be very grateful. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. I only gave the floor to correct it, because it was linked to the question, and in the other parts it was just questions, not statements. Thank you very much for this part of the sitting. The Communication Commission with Poles abroad and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have submitted a report on the Commission's draft law amending the Polish Charter Act and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: the report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Commission's draft law amending the Polish Charter Act and some other laws (prints No 157 and 371). I ask Mr Michał Dworczyk to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u236	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Communications with Poles abroad and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the Commission's draft law amending the Polish Charter Act and some other laws, print No 157. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the Polish Charter Act, which we initiated in this term of office, had three main points, aimed at introducing three fundamental changes. Firstly, it introduced a revolution when it comes to thinking about this law. Let us remind you that in 2007, when this law was passed, it was intended mainly for our compatriots in the East, who live all the time on the former borders of I and II of the Republic of Poland and do not intend to come to Poland permanently. The bill was designed to help them maintain contact with the matrix. Among other things, they were subject to solutions such as facilitating the receipt of visas, exemption from tuition fees in Poland or discounts in terms of public transport or admission to museums. In this amendment, we are facing also those Poles in the East who want to come to Poland and settle in our country permanently. For the first time in history, we give our compatriots a choice: if you want to live where your fathers, grandparents, lived, we will help you to maintain Polishness outside the country, but if you want to come to the matrices, we also give you this opportunity and support you, we give you the opportunity to settle. In practice, it would look like that the holder of the Polish Charter, who comes to Poland with the intention to settle here permanently, receives a permanent residence card free of charge from the machine, then receives Polish citizenship after a year and at that time can count on various kinds of help during this most difficult period of adaptation. The second important change that we are introducing in this amendment is the possibility of obtaining the Pole's Charter not so much as so far, only in the consulates of the Republic of Poland, where the issuing authority was a consul, but also in voivodeship offices, where the issuing authority would be a voivode. This is particularly important for citizens of those countries where there is no full democracy, such as Belarus, where local authorities are reluctant to look at the holders of the Polish Charter and applicants for this document, where the authorities have introduced a law which some professional groups prohibit from applying for the Polish Charter. Thanks to this amendment, our compatriots, coming from Belarus to Poland, will be able to submit documents and then collect the Polish Charter. The third very important point of this amendment, which needs to be mentioned, is the change of thought and the change of approach to our fellow countrymen in the East, who have the Polish Charter, but do not have Polish citizenship. We are introducing a provision whereby our compatriots in extraordinarily situations, in situations where their health or life is at risk, will be able to be treated on principles similar to those of Polish citizens, with respect for international law, of course. We want to give a very clear signal that, for us, for the present government, for the present parliament, our compatriots outside the country, whether or not they have Polish citizenship, are very, very important and will be given priority. During the work of the committee and the subcommittee, some amendments were made, which were voted by the committees. I'll limit myself to mentioning some of the most important things. If there are questions later, it will be necessary, then I will develop the issues of individual changes. The first change in relation to the project originally submitted consists in a change in the scope of benefits. Here we collided on the one hand with a certain financial reality, on the other hand - with concerns discussed among others. by the boundary environments. We originally wanted a person who came to Poland with the intention to settle here permanently, to have the opportunity to obtain in the first year of his/her stay, i.e. during this most difficult adaptation period, similar assistance received by people coming to our country as part of the process of repatriation. The border environments pointed to the threat that the creation of such a strong incentive, such large facilities would lead to a kind of drainage from Poles of the borders of the I and II Republic of Poland, while after analyses carried out in agreement with the government, it turned out that such rich benefits would exceed the possibilities of the Polish state budget. That is why we introduced a change in the committee's work, which is that every person who wants to settle in Poland in this way, obtain Polish citizenship, during the first 3 months of his stay will be able to count on a monthly financial allowance of 50% minimum wage, and for the next 6 months it will be 60% that amount. To put it simply, any person who wants to settle in Poland in this mode will be able to count on the average of PLN 600 to be co-financed for 9 months. On the one hand, it is not a big amount, but on the other hand for people who come here and have no support at the start, it will undoubtedly be a big help. The second important change we are making is due to the concern for the budget. This is the introduction of a mechanism which will allow to control expenditure incurred by the Polish state's budget during the implementation of the Polish Charter Act. These benefits, which I just mentioned, will be implemented from the special special special reserve created for the implementation of the Polish Charter Act. We, on the other hand, introduce the possibility that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, who monitors the use of this reserve, sees that the amount of the special-purpose reserve is used in 75% , he will be able to take action to stop the payment of benefits. What does that mean? This means that our compatriots will still be able to apply for a permanent residence card, will receive it and after a year they will receive Polish citizenship if they wish, and after using the amount included in the special reserve of the Polish state budget they will not be able to receive the benefit. Another important change concerns the voivodship offices in which you will be able to apply for the Polish Charter. Originally we thought it would be possible to do it in all voivodships. Later, after analysing the situation, possible expectations, needs and possibilities of infrastructure and administrative capacity, we came to the conclusion that it is necessary to introduce a provision that the Council of Ministers will be able to indicate the regional offices and those voivodships who will be able to issue the Polish Charter. The Council of Ministers will also be able to identify the countries whose citizens will be able to apply for the Polish Charter at these regional offices. Another important change, which is also dictated by an analysis of the current situation, i.e. an analysis of how the IT infrastructure is currently operating, which is created for the functioning of the Polish Charter Act - it is also about the financial possibilities of the Polish state's budget - concerns the period of vacathio legis. Namely, we propose that the law, regulations concerning settling here, receiving a permanent residence card enter into force 3 months from the date of publication of the law, while the provisions which will concern the competence of the voivodships, i.e. the possibility of applying for the Polish Charter in the voivodeship offices, and the benefits which will be paid to people who wish to settle in Poland in this manner, are to enter into force only from 1 January 2017, i.e. about 5 months later. It must be said that the committee has voted relatively in agreement with these changes, although it has not been without discussion. Three minority proposals were also submitted. I will present these proposals to you, and they are relatively short. The first proposal concerns Chapter 2b: Form and method of providing support to the holder of the Polish Charter granted for an indefinite period. It is proposed that Article. 8k was as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. The Pole's card granted for an indefinite period entitles its holder to receive financial assistance of one tenth of the average monthly salary in the Republic of Poland in the sector of enterprises without rewards from the profit announced by the Central Statistical Office for the month of December preceding the year in which the aid is paid. 2. Aid referred to in paragraph 1. 1, is an annual, one-off payment in local currency after calculated from Polish zlotys according to the NBP average rate from the date of submission of the application. The aid shall be paid by a consul or an authorised consular staff member. 3. The Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs shall, by means of a regulation, determine the procedure, manner and time limits for the submission of applications, taking into account the need for efficient and rapid handling. This is the minority amendment tabled by Mr Gryglas. This amendment... The intention is absolutely right, because it comes down to paying some benefits to our elderly people, for example. for the purchase of medicines or municipal fees. We know that pensions in countries such as Belarus, Ukraine and Russia are very low, so it would certainly be useful to do so, but also to be responsible - after the conversions, which show that this solution in the version proposed by your Member would go about 20% the functioning of this law - the committee recommended this amendment negatively. The second amendment concerns Article. 1. In point 9 (a), point (b) is replaced by the following: b should read as follows: 4 is replaced by the following: 4. The Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs shall determine, by means of a regulation: 1. the way in which the certificates referred to in paragraph 1 are issued. 3 point 7, 2. the model certificate referred to in paragraph. 3 point 7, 3. a list of Polish or Polish organisations entitled to issue the certificates referred to in paragraph. 3 (7) taking into account the need to ensure the reliability of the certificates issued and taking into account the scope of information on the activities of the applicant, which certify its commitment to the language and culture of the Polish or Polish national minority. Ladies and gentlemen, the intention of this amendment is to seal the possibility, so I interpret it, granting the Polish Charter to people who do not have documents confirming their Polish origin. I would like to remind you that the provision which introduced the possibility of receiving the Polish Charter on the basis of a certificate issued by a Polish organization operating in the East came from the fact that some of our compatriots in Soviet times, during the 20th interwar period, were subjected to very strong repression: exports to Kazakhstan from Soviet Ukraine in 1936, or a Polish operation in the Soviet Union, where 111 thousand were shot. Poles were only because they were Poles, and several tens of thousands were sent to the camps. These and other traumatic events led to some of our compatriots knowingly destroying all documents confirming their Polish origin. And for these people it is precisely this way of obtaining the Polish Charter. It is worth noting that at the moment it is not so that any Polish organization can issue a certificate. This organisation, which is indicated in the Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers, shall, at the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, be entitled to issue such certificates. For example, in Ukraine there are two such Polish organizations, in Belarus one. In our view, there should be no additional sharpening and restrictions. This could be limited to introducing only more bureaucracy and would not contribute to improving the functioning of this law. Therefore, the committee has strongly recommended this amendment. Mr Gryglas is also the author of the amendment. This is just presented as a minority proposal. And a third minority motion. Well, there's a proposal in the article. 1 in point 9 (a) ♪ to read as follows: paragraph shall be added. The following 8 are added: 8. For applicants who have not demonstrated their knowledge of the Polish language as provided for in paragraph 1. 7, evaluates the knowledge of the Polish language during the conversation of the consuls, and in the case referred to in Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Four, voivode. The assessment of the knowledge of the Polish language of the consul or the voivode shall be carried out in accordance with the European system of certification of foreign languages for level A1 (the lowest basic language). This was the proposal made by Mrs Fabisiak. The intention is understandable, and the wording of the amendment is unacceptable because this provision would require consuls and voivods to de facto assess the level of language skills for which these officials have no competence or authority. Hence, such an action could be questioned in a very simple way. In addition, today at the committee meeting we heard from a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that this provision is contrary to the applicable rules at all. That is why the committee has recommended this amendment negatively and I have just presented it as a minority motion. Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission adopted all the amendments unanimously. I hope that the further legislative process will also take place in a similar, compatible and compatible atmosphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u237	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. And to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask Mr Michał Dworczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would just like to say that the law, which is proceded at the initiative of the Parliament's Committee on Communication with Poles abroad, is part of the Law and Justice programme. In this programme the Polish minority, Poles outside the country have always been a very important part. I would like to remind you that the Law and Justice Government introduced a number of changes in 2005 and 2007, including: 50% increased funding for Polish environments outside the country. It was then that the Polish Charter Act was adopted, two other draft Polish laws were adopted, a new act on citizenship, a new act on repatriation. Unfortunately, due to the short term, they were not adopted at the time, but we have now returned to the Polish projects. The package of Polish laws was announced by Law and Justice during the campaign and is currently being implemented. Among other things, for 100 days in the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło presented a proposal for a repatriation bill, which we believe will eventually solve the problem of our fellow countrymen in the East who want to repatriate to Poland. I will remind you, for 25 years we have been unable to cope with the repatriation of several thousand people from Kazakhstan and eastern Russia. At that time, actually in the first five years of the '90s. Germany repatriated nearly a million of its compatriots just from Kazakhstan and Russia to the Federal Republic of Germany. Poland could not cope with these tens of thousands. We This bill has already been prepared, presented by Prime Minister Beata Szydło for 100 days of the government. The proposed amendment is part of the Law and Justice Programme and therefore the Law and Justice Club will support the proposed amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u239	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, please address Mrs Joanna Fabisiak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Polish Charter Act and some other laws from print No 157 of 16 December 2015. I will point out the two objectives mentioned in the explanatory memorandum and refer mainly to them as being particularly important. The first objective is to introduce a number of revolutionary solutions to facilitate the colonization of the Poles' Charter holders in the territory of the Republic of Poland. In particular, this will refer to those who apply for a permanent residence permit and so-called. The adaptation package will help them to do so. The second objective is to put in place provisions to correct or clarify existing solutions. The Civic Platform supports both objectives and supports the revised bill. However, we have very serious doubts and reservations as to whether these objectives can be met. Well, in the special reserve, I ask you, which Mr Dworczyk has just mentioned, 30 million are reserved for this year, but every year the government will decide on the size of this reserve. In 2015, 6900 people applied for a permanent residence permit. If we were to give these 6900 people this adaptation package, which for one person is PLN 6120, the sum of 30 million will be too small because it needs PLN 42 million. But that's not the problem, the problem is that the bill says that not only the applicant, but also her spouse, who may be a completely different nationality, and underage children will have the right to such support. On average, as it counts, four people who will be with a person... three people plus this person applying for a permit will already give you an invaluable sum, because almost 30,000. persons. When we multiply this by the amount allocated to each person, 6120 PLN, the sum amounts to almost 170 million. Perhaps it will be secured in this special reserve, but that is why our doubts, hence the brake in the form that if the funds are used, will be announced in the newsletter and it will not be possible to apply for these measures. Therefore, we believe that this benefit will belong to a very narrow group of beneficiaries. There is little this year in reserve of 30 million, but now there is an amendment to the extension of the vacathio legis and benefits to be granted only from next year, and we do not know what the reserve will be for next year, so we really do not know who can, who will receive this benefit, hence our anxiety supported by numbers. I asked these questions at the subcommittee meeting, the committee, but we don't have an answer, so we have to report them. Of course, by supporting the bill, we will be looking at its implementation. That's one point. But there is still a second point, these regulations. Here is the issue of Polish language, confirmation. Well, the law states that someone who graduated in Polish has completed his studies in Polish and has a certified knowledge of Polish. Someone who doesn't have such certificates needs to have a conversation with a consul or a voivode. Ladies and gentlemen, what Mr President has just said proves that his knowledge of the teaching methodology is insufficient, because if a person wants to carry out any exam, he must have a basis. You can't say - there's a conversation. I asked in the subcommittee, in the committee, to present documents that are the basis for conducting such an exam, so that it was not just from under a big finger, speaking colloquially, someone was just talking. Unfortunately, I did not receive such documents. Hence, the proposal not to create situations that may be the basis for various abuses. To determine... The European certification system has been in force in Poland for 12 years and these rules are simple, at the lowest level it is a simple, elementary conversation. We just want it not to be imprecise. That is why we have tabled such an amendment, and unfortunately it has not been accepted. We're very sorry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So in conclusion, once again, I stress that we will support the bill, we will look at it, because it seems to us that the group entitled to these cash benefits will be infinitely small, and after all it was supposed to be an open door for people who will settle and we want them to settle. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u241	Thank you very much. Speaking on behalf of the Kukiz club15: first Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz and after you will be sent by Mrs Elżbieta Borowska. As I said before, the Kukiz15 club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We very much welcome the fact that in the new Seym we are dealing with the issue of Poles in the world, especially Poles in the Kresów. This is always close to our heart and we will always support such debates. We believe that Poles in the world are our biggest card and our huge potential. However, the Polish Charter Act is also a good opportunity to call on us in the Polish House to talk more about the problems of Poles in the East and the West, which they are currently struggling with. I am referring here to an example of the recent scandalous actions of the Lithuanian state in the context of Polish education in Vilnius. At the same time, we believe that Poles do not have the right to become part of an interparty game and we will always be as a Kukiz club15 in the position that in terms of improving the fate of Poles in the world we must always communicate over party games, we cannot use Poles to fight between us, to fight for the support of the nation. However, we also have some concerns, concerns about the Polish Charter Act. There are various signals coming to us in the context of, for example, border environments which claim that there may be a weakening of Polishness in Lithuania, Belarus, Ukraine. We think that it is important to support Poles all over the world, also where they want to stay. On the other hand, specific concerns will be expressed on behalf of our club, Mrs Elżbieta Borowska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u243	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, these concerns are not on behalf of the club, but these are the voices that come to us from Ukraine or Lithuania. There is such a question, what will this administrative process really look like, because many Poles sometimes write to us, that people who have bought documents for Polish origin, first receive these Polish cards, while they have to struggle to obtain the Polish Charter for many months, and basically this consular service may not function as it should in this dimension. And there is also the second question, what about those Poles who do not want to get this Polish Charter and who will want to further promote this Polishness in the Kresów, because the boundaries shifted as a result of historical events deprived them of their citizenship, these Soviet actions, while they would like to stay there as much as possible because they feel at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u245	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to the Member of the next club, I would like to inform you that the meetings are being listened to by representatives of the Association of the Local Action Group Krajna Złotowska, and I would therefore like to greet you on behalf of the Bureau and the current Members of the State. [[Applause]] I see that there were also young people listening to these proceedings. I hope you like it in the Seym. Now, please take the floor of the representative of the Modern Club by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Modern Club to present my position on the novelty of the Polish Charter Act. Ladies and gentlemen, the overall assessment of this amendment is good. This is a good bill, which is a specific implementation of historical justice. It will allow us to return to Poland quite significant number of our fellow countrymen from eastern areas. Unfortunately, numerous shortcomings snuck into this project during the seym work. And I regret to mention what the President has just said, namely the delay in the entry into force of the law and the whole grant mechanism. That's one thing. Secondly, limiting the possibility of paying out funds from this fund will in fact make this law the mechanism in which this money will simply be available only to those who apply for these funds first. Many of them can stay with the so-called. with a stamp. And that would be a very bad signal sent to our fellow countrymen from the East. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is an even worse thing in this bill. This is the amendment that I have proposed, which today has been rejected by law and justice. This means that the Law and Justice in this bill forgot about a very large and very important group of our fellow countrymen in the East, those who have the Polish Charter issued for an indefinite period. Ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared this amendment very professionally and have done so for a long time. I asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to give a specific number of Poles who received the Polish Charter for an indefinite period. This number I obtained is exactly - to be precise, I quote from the answer to the interpellation - 9567 people. Ladies and gentlemen, if we multiply this number by the amount I proposed, and this amount is about PLN 400, we know that it is not 20% of the cost of implementing the bill, as you said, but it is at most 10% , so the amount very small, and this amount could do a lot of good, because, ladies and gentlemen, pensions in Ukraine is today the average amount in Polish zlotys approx. PLN 150.200. These people often do not have the resources to buy not only food, but mostly so needed in this late age of medicine or to cover the cost of treatment. We could help this group effectively, spending just over PLN 3 million for this purpose. I think it's our duty to do this. I hope - and here I appeal to the Members of the Law and Justice - that before the vote on the bill there will be another reflection and that they will want to correct their views. I do not allow a situation in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could be so much wrong and, as the President said, this amount, the number of people who have the Polish Charter, will almost double. I don't allow this to happen because the administration can't work like this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u247	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the Polish Charter Act. The bill amending the Act on the Polish Charter and some other laws introduces a number of solutions facilitating the holders of the Polish Charter to settle in the territory of the Republic of Poland, including among others. through an adaptation package and by facilitating the application for Polish citizenship. On the other hand, provisions are in place to clarify and clarify existing solutions. High Izbo, the current Polish Charter Act of 7 September 2007 is a law that needs to be sorted out and dealt with the problems that our Poles and, in particular, our fellow countrymen from across the eastern border were exposed to. The Polish People's Party believes that this is a good time to introduce the proposed solutions. It shows this, among others. armed conflict in the east of Ukraine in the last 2 years, as well as the still unstable political, social and economic situation throughout Ukraine, which directly affects also Poles living there. The need to evacuate from the endangered areas of Donbas, and later from the area of Mariupola, showed the legal and organisational problems involved. Among other things, this situation has become another prerequisite for the proposed amendment of the Polish Charter Act. The amendments made to the Act will give concrete tools to help Poles who intend to settle in Poland. This support will also consist in supporting the adaptation process in Poland. It is also important to mention Poles residing in Belarus, where the rules still make it difficult to apply for the Polish Charter. The Act provides that when they encounter problems in their own country, they can apply for the Polish Charter in Poland through the voivodeship. Proposals for amendments to the Polish Charter Act include: for exemption from consular fees for receiving and examining a request for a national visa or for drawing up documentation on the granting of Polish citizenship, this is a very good matter, because these funds, the costs they have incurred so far, are about EUR 500. The Polish Charter provides for the possibility of providing assistance to a person residing in Poland on the basis of a permanent residence permit obtained on the basis of the Polish Charter and members of its immediate family. That's, among other things. reimbursement of travel expenses, development, partial payment of rent of the apartment or Polish language. It is good that the Act provides for professional activation for persons residing in Poland for permanent stay, obtained on the basis of the Polish Charter. This applies to those who do not have professional qualifications or have professional qualifications which are not useful on the labour market - the employer's salary, prizes and employment insurance contributions can be reimbursed. The Polish People's Party predicts that the proposed changes will have a positive social impact, because the changes make it easier for Poles from the eastern regions to return to Poland, which has always had a positive social and national reaction. Due to the emigration crisis in Europe, the Polish Charter will have a good impact on the settlement of compatriots in its homeland. In Polish society they will be received positively, because it is an important part of the social awareness of the commitment to Poles from abroad. We refer to good practices, and I would like to remind you that years ago, the slogan "Every municipality will receive a Polish family from Kazakhstan" was very well received in local and national environments. It can be assumed that they will have a positive impact on the economic impact, as has been demonstrated by experience so far. It is young people who want to bind their future with Poland, and people in a mature age want to live in Poland for better or for worse. Polish partyry always - 122 years - looked at Poles being in Poland, and how they are abroad, especially those who were sent away, were on a wandering trip, especially in Siberia or Kazakhstan, or in other parts of the country, but mostly in the East, we were always in favour of connecting Poles and not sharing, and always what we have been doing and doing so far - it is for the reconciliation of Poles throughout Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u249	Thank you very much. Twelve people were included in the list of Members who were included in the question. Is anyone else willing to sign up? I don't see anyone else, so I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Mr Wojciech Zietniak, the Civic Platform Club, for the first question. You're welcome. Time, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The change of the Pole's card, which we are now processing, is expected, and that is a fact. Many Poles have obtained such a card so far, but many are waiting for it. The changes are designed to make it easier to obtain. So I have a question for you. The permissions for granting the Polish Charter will be given to the Voivodeships. Is it all of us or just some of us? And who's that gonna be? How's that gonna be settled? Cash benefits paid by seniors from the special-purpose reserve are provided for. What's the amount of that reserve, on a quota basis? Will it only be fixed and we will match the number of notifications, or will it be fixed in quota terms? I think it could be defined more or less. Therefore, the next question. Do you know how many Poles received the Polish Charter in 2015 and how many Poles are expected to be issued in 2017 in order to perhaps establish this special reserve for this quantity so that it is adequate? Because the announcement is that the payment of benefits may be interrupted because it will be 75% The reserve doesn't know what it is. It will be monitored whether it has already been issued, and it will be stopped. Would that be beneficial? Will it be on the basis of who first, the better, and will receive benefits, or will anyone who tries to obtain this card in a given year be assured that he will receive these benefits? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u251	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law, as the rapporteur put it, is particularly concerned with the problem of those who have crossed the border, who have stayed on the eastern side of our border. On the other hand, I wanted to take care of the matter of those who were transported to Kazakhstan, to Siberia, to places far from our culture, from our territory. This is gonna be a lot harder. I would therefore like to ask if there are any facilitations for access to information and the possibility of formal settlement of the issue of obtaining the Polish Charter, for those for whom coming to Poland, reaching any voivodship in which you could submit an application and even to the consulate in a quite remote city in Russia can be difficult. It may also be difficult for them to hear about such changes in Polish regulations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u253	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Charter and the extension of the possibility to issue it are a very important problem and a very important issue, also as regards demographic issues, as regards the issue of the admission of potential migrants to Poland. So far, according to the justification of this law, 170 000 have been adopted since 2008. conclusions. Is that a lot? That's a little over 20,000 on average. applications per year, i.e. 6% when it comes to births in Poland. If on average in Poland there is a birth of 350.400 thousand. Children, we have twenty-seven thousand applications for the Polish Charter. It is necessary to mobilise and develop this aspect as much as possible, to develop these opportunities, so that we can accept 100 and 150 000 a year. conclusions. These rights should be extended not only to indigenous Poles, but also to all persons whose parents lived within the pre-war borders of the Republic of Poland. Just as Germany cares for its citizens born within the pre-war Reich, we should care for all those who were born within the borders of the Republic of Poland and whose parents or grandparents had Polish citizenship, regardless of their nationality. And these possibilities of emigration to Poland from the East in the light of the very difficult demographic situation of Poland should be used to a much greater extent. My question is how you estimate how much thanks to these facilitations, thanks to the extension of these possibilities, which gives the amendment of the law, people will be able to accept to Poland on average annually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u255	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u256	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the Motorcycle Association of Assistance to Poles overseas East - West I often meet Poles living in the East because I go there every year for various types of rally, longer, shorter. I am therefore pleased with the Commission's draft amendment, which provides for greater support for my fellow countrymen. They're really into it, and they're always talking about it. According to the draft law, the employer may apply for reimbursement of paid salary, training, prizes and contributions to the Social Security Office provided that the person holding the Polish Charter has a employment relationship for at least 24 months. My question is: What happens when the contract is terminated before the end of this period because of the employer's fault? Will the employer have to pay back the funding? What happens when the contract is terminated before the end of this period because of the Pole Card holder? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u257	Thank you very much. And another question will be asked by Anna Elizabeth Sobecka, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u258	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a change that is very happy, because often the media report what is really happening with the granting of the Polish Charter. He writes about it anyway. Ms Anna Maria Paszkowska, that the powers of Polish activists in Ukraine are being exceeded. One of the criteria for granting the card is the opinion of the Polish organization confirming its involvement in its activities. The presidents of these organisations often exceed their powers in order to obtain property benefits. For an appropriate fee they issue confirmations to people who have no connection with Poland, who do not know Polish. Hence this amendment, as I said at the outset, is happy. Then I'm asking you a question. The change we are talking about gives the possibility to grant the Polish Charter to a minor whose parents died without receiving the card and were Poles. The term of validity of the Pole Card granted to the minor shall be specified. The expiry date of the card shall be 10 years, but not more than one year from the date of age. My question is this: So, what will happen when you get older with these children, what are their ways of further searching? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u259	Thank you very much. And I will ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club, to ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Acting under the authority of the President of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present two amendments to the bill under consideration. And yes, based on the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, Polish Monitor from 2012, item. 32, late. I hereby submit amendments to the draft law amending the Polish Charter Act and certain other laws, prints No 157 and 371. Amendment 1. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 11 in Article. In paragraph 16, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 4 the words "it' have been annulled on the ground that it has been granted a permanent residence permit, replaced by "the permanent residence permit'. Justification: a clarification amendment is justified by the fact that the concept of Amendment 2. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 16 in point (a) and, after the first indent, add the following second indent: "- point 2 is replaced by the following: '2) where one of the conditions set out in Article is met: 19, points 2, 5 or 6;',. Justification: the amendment corrects the reference by deleting point 4 because in accordance with Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 The Polish Charter expires by law upon acquiring Polish citizenship or obtaining a permanent residence permit. There is therefore no need for an administrative decision. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u261	Thank you very much, sir. And I would like to ask Mrs Margaret Navel for a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Charter, which has been in operation since 2008, is a document confirming belonging to the Polish people. It is granted to people of Polish origin living in 15 countries abroad. This applies to countries formed or reborn after the disintegration of the Soviet Union which do not recognise dual citizenship. After the first reading, hundreds of additional comments were received by the authors of the bill. They concerned in particular the rules governing the granting of material aid by local authorities to the holders of the Polish Charter. As far as the economic and social powers of those interested in obtaining the Polish Charter are concerned, I have the following question: How close or different are they to those who benefit from the solutions adopted in the Repatriation Act, and if there are differences, is it planned to amend the Repatriation Act in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u263	You're welcome. And I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform Club, to ask you another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u264	Mrs. Marshal! Two short questions: one for the Minister, one for the President. Minister! I have heard that my minority request is contrary to the rules in force. I would be grateful for its presentation, because it seems improbable to me to regulate the matter, clarify and create the conditions for the examination in accordance with the system in force throughout Europe and the European Union as a whole, so I will ask for a presentation. There is also one brief question for the President. Mr President, what is the reason, because there was an amendment, I am thinking of a vacathio legis extending over 3 months until the end of the year, after all there is money, there is 30 million, why not make a gift to those who are seeking a permanent residence card if there is money? We don't know what it's gonna be like next year, and now you can grant that money, this adaptation package. So what were the reasons, what are the serious reasons why this vacathio legis is prolonged? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u265	Thank you very much. And I will ask another question from Mr Stanisław Five, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the first words I would like to thank you for saving the Polish school. Counts of Platers in Kraslav, Latvia. Thank you so much for that. I have a question, though. We know that the Polish Charter belongs to Poles living in the countries of the former Soviet Union. I have reports, questions as to why Poles can't use the Polish Charter to live in Bukovina. The same applies to Poles living in Zaolzie. Does the Ministry see here the need to change the provisions of the law so that Poles living in these countries can benefit from the benefits of the Polish Charter? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u267	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed amendments to the Polish Charter Act meet the social moods. The policy of the coalition of PO-PSL was inclined against the will of the majority to accept immigrants currently flooding the countries of Western Europe and Scandinavia. However, it was forgotten how important the Polish nation has to do with its fellow countrymen in the East, especially in the face of the armed conflict in Ukraine affecting the people living there. Today we are improving the law, which did not effectively allow the return to Poland of those who will really integrate with society, will work and co-create the future of their homeland. The aim is to facilitate the process of settling in Poland for people holding the Polish Charter and members of their families. I have a question about the proposal for a change: Can we really expect a greater interest in getting the Polish Charter and whether it is really the help that our countrymen expect? And second question: What maximum limit is foreseen for the implementation of the provisions of the Act for the following years, and what real effects can they translate into each year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u269	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Wojciech Murdzek, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I welcome the progress that has been made, because as president, I have been involved in the development of many details of receiving families from Kazakhstan. Finally, we take it from local governments and take full responsibility as those who create today's reality of Poland. After the 500+ programme, the plan of the Polish Economy+ is Poles+. This is very, very consistent with what we are doing, because we really need this presence of Poles and we should do everything to create such opportunities. I can say that we will certainly be many times very pleasantly surprised by this whole process, I'm sure of it. It seems that this is indeed a signal for those who want to stay there in the East. They simply need to know that this communication with Poland is preserved, that they are important. This will not mean that everyone will want to come to Poland, while the signal for Polish communities living in the East will be clearly positive. It seems that this activity and the presence of those who will come, also in the labour market, will indeed be strengthened, also for the benefit of Poland, because I also have experience in the coming of many professionals, and I also have experience in the fact that they send children to study in our schools at their own expense, overcoming a number of barriers. Question: "Will the cooperation with local governments continue with this slightly reversed position, but also by looking for allies in local governments who [[♪ The bell ♪]] will they certainly be very active when it comes to implementing these solutions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u271	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u272	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A country that protects its citizens takes care of them, including those who are citizens outside the borders of the country, is a country that has a development perspective. I am therefore extremely pleased that the current government continues with the good traditions of its predecessors, and we will, of course, always support this type of action. As a long-term self-government officer with a lot of experience I also have experience in the topic of receiving Poles from Kazakhstan. These are good experiences, although these are difficult organisational challenges, but working together with these people, their social integration, watching this is really a very big experience and I recommend that everyone have such an experience in their CV, because it gives them the opportunity to look from a really different perspective at what we have here in the country. When we have this on a daily basis, we often underestimate it. These people look differently at what is happening in our Poland. There are some very good changes in the proposed statutory change. I have a question about one of the paragraphs. The following paragraph shall be added: 3, which gives the possibility to grant a Polish card to a minor whose parent or parents died without receiving a card. I think it's one of the best and most important records in this shift. I have a question: Will special procedures be prepared for those who, for well-known reasons, have great difficulties as minors - not always carers meet the needs of the minor's national expectations, especially beyond the eastern border - to help him obtain the card, not only the right, but also the procedures to assist him in obtaining the card? And whether the funds [[♪ The bell ♪]] for these minors will they be greater than for adults already? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u273	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Jan Dziedziczak to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, most of the questions were addressed to the rapporteur, but, of course, I will allow myself to answer a few specific questions. First of all, the general remark, which is related to the speech of the Member and to this difference of data in the interpellation and speech. It's extremely simple. We explained it, even explained it at the committee meeting. Well, 9567 people are the number of people who, at the time of applying for the Polish Charter, had a certain age, while 15 thousand. people, these are people who have the Polish Charter and today they have the mentioned age finished. Right? We're talking 65 years old. It is so that if, for example, in 2009 someone was 64 years old and applied for the Polish Charter, then he in the first group, i.e. in this group of 9,5 thousand, was not included, but today this person is already included, because she is 65 years old and has the Polish Charter. That's why it's different. I think it's very simple. Now let me answer some of your questions. The question of Mr Potatoak, Mr President. In 2015, 24 187 applications for the Polish Charter were received. Mrs Tomaszewska asked about the tools, opportunities to reach our compatriots who are interested in the Polish Charter, to the consulates, to those who can help in the process of acquiring the Polish Charter. Of course, we expect an increase in interest in the Polish Charter due to the amendment, hence an increase in the number of consular posts, hence an increase in the number of consular shifts and consuls will also leave the area. Mrs Tomaszewska indicated that there are very large areas, right, even Russia. We have three facilities there, Moscow, St. Petersburg, Irkutsk, and we know these distances are huge. Therefore, the actions will also be intensified, because they are, but it is not enough, the outbound activities will be intensified, i.e. the outbound shifts. Information - starting with modern forms, web pages, entire web infrastructure, ending with traditional methods. We are aware that the Polish Charter is also interested in older people who do not use the Internet, so we are planning to increase cooperation, which is, anyway, an increase in reaching these people by Polish organizations and by Polish parishes, by pastors who often have direct contact with these people, know people who could meet these conditions, be interested. Mr Wójcikowski asked, actually proposed to increase annual interest in the Polish Charter by 200,000. persons. Interesting offer. This is, of course, also related to the situation of the Second Polish Republic, which you also pointed out here. I just don't know, because I have different opinions at his club, or did you mean the 31%? citizens of the Second Republic of Poland who were national minorities. The idea is interesting and, of course, worth talking about it, but I would just like to clarify whether he is referring to all the citizens of his day, how this would look exactly. Mrs Sobecka asked about the situation... That question was also raised by Mrs Gądek. We'll answer in writing because it's a detailed matter. Same with Mrs Navel's question. This question was basically addressed to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and we will pass it on to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Mrs Fabisiak has asked about legal issues. This is about the Polish language law. We will answer this question in detail in writing so as to resolve any doubts. [[But exactly.]] Mr Pięta. Thank you so much for your kind words about our school, the Polish school in Latvia. This, of course, was a joint work, and I think that the work of the committee, Mr Dworczyk, was of great importance, and you have great merit here. We enjoy and support our fellow countrymen in Latvia. As far as Bukowina and Zaol are concerned, this is an interesting idea, but this is, ladies and gentlemen, in your hands. This country is now updating the Polish Charter Act and you can amend it. We as executives will be suggestions from the legislative authority, proposals, the law that you are adopting, to implement. Of course, the idea of the Polish Charter Act was to reach our compatriots in the former Soviet Union in the first place. The situation of Poles in Zaolzie, citizens of the Czech Republic, EU country, let's add, with higher GDP than Poland, is probably different from that of our countrymen in Belarus or Kazakhstan. But, of course, we will pay close attention to your proposals, and if you consider that it is necessary to introduce it into the bill, we will, as always, implement it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is generally all that we have noted as a foreign ministry. It is the questions addressed to us, and I know that the rapporteur will want to develop this. We are happy with this amendment, we approach it with great hope, with enthusiasm. The idea is very interesting, especially this element that the rapporteur was talking about, i.e. the subjective treatment of our fellow countrymen in the East, giving them the choice: whether we cultivate Polishness in the East, whether we come here, to the country of fathers. This subjective approach is something that deserves to be commended, but those who stay can count on our care absolutely all the time. Care for Poles abroad is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, we encourage - because here was the question, one of the Members asked, what about those who would not want to come to Poland, would want to stay east of our borders - that of course these people would also receive the Polish Charter and use the numerous tools which the Polish Charter gives to those who decide to stay in the East. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u275	Thank you very much, Minister. In the correction procedure, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas. Then Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, also in correction. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Minister, I understand the wording of the explanation that was given during the committee's meeting, but this is, forgive me, unbelievable. I'm explaining why. The statistics of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are indeed - and from this interpellation, and from what you said - very, very unreliable or inaccurate. They also do not take into account, I'm sorry, the natural departures of our compatriots, that is, this number is naturally excessive. As if by a statistical nature it could be assumed that this increase, which the Minister spoke of, was at the same time compensated for by another direction in some sense in relation to the number given in the interpellation. Therefore, I would like to ask you again for reliable calculations. In my opinion, the amount with which this extremely important request will be met is really very low. I ask you to reconsider this amendment. I hope that we will be able, with a clear conscience, to support this bill as good not only for young people and middle-aged people, but also for our compatriots who are already 65 years old and will certainly not decide to change their place of residence, where they are today. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u277	Thank you very much. And Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, also in correction. You're welcome. Also a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u278	Minister, I wouldn't dare take the time if it weren't for the fact that the minority proposal will be voted tomorrow. If so, we must have an explanation of the legal matter. You sent me not to a specific recipe, but to the Polish-language law. I wrote this bill, co-created it. And I don't really find a record there... All this legislation in this certification section refers to the European system for certification of foreign languages, so there can be no contradiction here. Mr Dworczyk also reiterated this allegation. So I ask you very kindly, however, to prepare this reply not in writing, but for tomorrow, and if not, simply to withdraw from it. I understand that there may be a vote of one or another, but it cannot be said that something is contrary to the rules in force when it is not. This record of exams is simply inaccurate. You're giving the consul too much competence without preparing... I don't charge the consul, it's just not good, if a man doesn't have conditions, there are no criteria for conducting the exam. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It just shouldn't be like that. It's the only thing I've protested and protested until it's settled. Thank you very much. Sorry, Marshal, for the extension.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u279	Thank you very much. Do you still want to speak? Not anymore. In that case, please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee of Michał Dworczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Referring first to Mrs Fabisiak's speech, until her last speech, it seems that Director Łasiński had a specific provision that he was paying attention to. However, I would like to say one thing again: simply the record that you have proposed makes it necessary for the consulates to have certification powers. If you'd offered a record, you'd have created a record that says that people who have a certificate are exempt from this conversation, it wouldn't be a problem at all. On the other hand, it is not possible to commission persons who do not have certification powers to carry out certification. It's cliché simple. I move on to the questions and speeches of the ladies and gentlemen of the House. Starting again with the questions of Mrs Fabisiak, first of all, I must correct: there is no special reserve for this year, as you are talking about. I think you're confusing her with the special reserve for repatriation, where there's 30 million zlotys. Perhaps this was the impression you could have had after the discussions that took place during committee meetings and then the subcommittee, where we were considering a reference to the special reserve for repatriation this year, but ultimately this provision was not introduced. The special reserve for the implementation of the Polish Charter Act will not be created until next year. There's no record of that... [[Yes, there isn't, sir.]] ...in none of the versions of this project we're talking about. Secondly, I will not argue with the calculations that the Member here presented from the speaker, but I can only say one thing - that from our calculations, which are based on the MSW data... And so they're still made with a certain surplus, because even today on the committee, the Ministry's representative told us that it was 6,000. conclusions... [[6900 times 6...]] ... 6900, no, 7,000. So let's assume, and we're going to assume the number of 10,000 in the present witnessing. those who will apply for this benefit next year. And if we accept the reserve that we estimated after talking to government representatives for PLN 30 million, that's 10,000. people will be served. Next thing you know... Oh, we've already talked about certification. With regard to the questions of Mrs Elżbieta Borowskia, the procedure for obtaining the Polish Charter remains unchanged. Thanks to this amendment, we are not making any changes, so this is kind of the answer to the first part of your question. And on the second - of course, the Polish state will continue to finance, as so far, Polish environments outside the country, including Poles in the East, those who do not decide to come to Poland, and we hope that many will remain, because we want to maintain Polish culture and Polish language in the Kresów I and II of the Republic. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas referred to the fact that few people will receive the benefit which I mentioned in the previous speech and which is enshrined in the article. 1 draft amended law. Mr Fabisiak, I will repeat what Mrs Fabisiak said. 10,000. People - I think it's pretty good for starters. Given that the average annual rate is 15 and 20 thousand. conclusions, it would have to be assumed that half of those who will submit applications, or even more than half, will want to come to Poland to settle here. It seems unlikely to me, given the age structure of people who are applying for the Polish Charter. Although, of course, this is not impossible, because if there is an increased interest in this document and if the number of applicants increases significantly, it may turn out that there will actually be more people who will be determined, determined to settle in Poland. But for this first year, I think it's going to be 10,000. people and the assumption of creating a budget reserve that will ensure the payment of benefits to this group is a good step, although, of course, you would always want that money to be more, that is clear. The Minister has already told us about the incompatibility of the data with the MFA data. In answer to Mr Potato's question, in order to define precisely the means to be allocated - this cannot be specified in the Act... [[10,000...]] ...because, Mr President, every year special reserves are being re-established. By referring to, for example, to the reserve for the financing of the Repatriation Act - last year this special reserve was at the level of PLN 14.15 million, this year it is at the level of PLN 30 million, and next year it will probably be at another level, especially if a proposal for a new act on repatriation is adopted. Therefore, it is not possible to record in the Act what level the special reserve will be adopted in the next year's budget. [[But we're planning 10,000. People, that's a number.]] And we have the opinion from the government that about PLN 30 million is the real amount in which this special reserve will be created. This is a declaration. She'll be verified at the time of budget creation. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska also asked about making it easier to apply for the Polish Charter when it comes to people who live in Kazakhstan or Russia. The Minister answered this question in part, but we will certainly convince the Ministry to make the trips of consuls where these consulates have a network as rare as in the case of Kazakhstan or Russia, more frequent, plus we plan an information campaign at consulates plus. in visa centres, of which there are dozens in Ukraine, in Belarus. Such information about new possibilities created by the amendment of the Polish Charter Act... We're gonna get the Foreign Office to do this. With regard to Mr Wójcikowski's statement here, Minister Dziedziczak rightly said that the Kukiz club has very conflicting expectations - on the one hand, it is about sealing, say, the granting of the Polish Charter and narrowing the group that can apply for it, on the other hand, there is a request, as I understand the words of Mr Wójcikowski, such a wide broadcasting. I personally am, of course, in favour of this broad approach, although there are limits. I mean, let us remember that it is, however, a document confirming belonging to the Polish people, here must be above all this declaration. On the other hand, I agree that if we are talking about demographic problems, we should look at the East rather than other continents. Ms Iwona Michalek asked about the provisions which have been repealed in the current draft amendment. I mean, these laws were taken or modelled on the provisions of the Repetition Act. At the moment we replaced them with this one witness for 9 months on average at the level of 600 PLN. Małgorzata Płępek - the answer is similar. We're talking about completely different privileges right now. There's one statement that we're replacing all of those in the original project. With regard to the next speech, Mrs Fabisiak's speech, the comments and question on the vacathio legis, has indeed been postponed in time. Why? Among other things, because the IT infrastructure is not available. Right now, the bidding is over. I would like to remind you that we are transferring the management of the database because I agree with Mr Gryglas that the database of people holding the Polish Charter leaves a lot to be desired, to say euphemistically. Now with this amendment we transfer both the database and its service from KPRM to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the moment, it is almost over whether the tender for changes in this system that were to be made in KPRM has just ended. This has to be done, and then this system has to be moved to the MZS and processed there to work with other systems that the MFA operates, among others. with the Consul-Visa system. I.T. said it would be risky to take a shorter deadline. It's the same with the connection to the voivodship offices. The voivodship offices, to put it graphically, must see this system where consulates function, right? For example. there was no duplication of conclusions that there was one application lodged at the consulate in Łuck, and then it was lodged at the Voivodeship Office in Białystok. Therefore, the adaptation of IT infrastructure is simply a fact. On the other hand, when it comes to funding issues, among other things. It's related to what I've already said. There's no special reserve this year. She is to be created from 1 January 2017. As regards Mr Pieta's statement, the Minister replied, I would remind you that in the first draft Act on the Polish Charter of 2006, the Act provided for the granting of this document to Poles all over the world, and this is indeed a project worth coming back to, especially if we are thinking about the implementation of the article. 52 constitutions, which say that in the country you have the right to settle anyone who has confirmed Polish origins. This is an article not implemented by any law. If we wanted to update the Polish Charter Act in this direction in the future, then it would necessarily have to embrace our fellow countrymen all over the world, so I can only say - like the Minister - that this is an interesting concept and as parliamentarians we should focus on it. Mrs Joanna Borowiak asked if more people would be interested. I'm sure it is. After the amendment, when these privileges increase, the possibility of settling - the Minister spoke about it - there will certainly be various activities to meet this task, among others. - as I understand from the Minister's statement - there will be an increase in the number of posts in some consuls who deal with the Polish Charter. As far as expenses are concerned, there is an individual reserve each year, so I refer to it again. Mr Murdzek asked if the Polish Charter would be used by local governments. I'll admit, we haven't thought about it yet. I'm sure with the revised repatriation bill, yes. But with the Polish Charter Act? One might wonder how to do that. Honestly, we haven't thought about it so far. Mrs Lydia Gądek asked if there would be any procedures to assist minors, whether there would be more resources than adults. To answer the second part of this question: no, the funds for all those who want to settle in Poland are the same. In the case of minors who do not have parents - I think they will be absolutely exceptional cases, because such children are taken care of, or are in a child's home, or have some legal guardian, so I doubt that they can come to Poland and settle here. But will there be supportive procedures? To be honest, I doubt that this can be done, because the Polish minority outside Vilnius and Grodzieńszczyzna is so scattered in such large areas that it is difficult to imagine technically how it would look, how we would reach those children of Polish origin, which are, for example. in children's homes. But this is, of course, a topic to discuss, and at this stage we did not talk about it at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u281	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. As at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Communication with Poles abroad and the Committee on Foreign Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the planned item 14 of the agenda: The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the law on the protection of agricultural and forestry land will not be considered at the current session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 15. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act (Print No 298). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Stanisław Swed to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a government bill amending the Labour Code Act contained in Seym Printing No 298. Designed changes in the Labour Code aim to limit the so-called. The first-day syndrome of hiring workers illegally without a written employment contract. Although the Labour Code now requires that a contract be concluded in writing, if it is not concluded in such a form, but by oral or implied means, the employer should confirm to the employee in writing the findings on the basic terms and conditions of employment. This confirmation should include all elements that have been previously agreed between the employee and the employer and which should also include a contract of employment. It should be provided to the staff member at the latest on the day on which he starts his work, i.e. by the end of his first day of work. The State Labour Inspection submits that in practice, this regulation serves employers for the illegal employment of workers, because in the case of the labour inspector's control, the rule is to explain to employers that workers do not yet have employment contracts, because this is their first day of work on which they have been admitted to work, and written confirmation will be provided to workers by the end of their working day, in accordance with the current Article. 29 § 2 of the Labour Code. According to the 2014 Report on the Activities of the State Labour Inspection, illegal employment consisting of entrusting work without written confirmation of the type of employment contract, its terms and conditions and the failure to notify the person employed or performing any other employment for social security was found in 18% of the persons controlled. In 2013, this percentage was lower in 2012, unfortunately increasing. These irregularities concerned 6.2% persons under control. In the opinion of labour inspectors, entrepreneurs entrust work illegally because circumvention of legislation is relatively easy. Employing in the grey zone is conducive to leaky regulation. This applies in particular to the deadlines for written confirmation to the employee of the employment contract - the day of starting work - and the application for social security - here is a seven-day period - which in practice allows work without fulfilling these obligations for a long time. Although the failure to confirm in writing the employment contract concluded with the employee is punishable by a fine of 1 000. PLN up to 30,000. zł, however, in practice with the current regulation contained in Article. 29 § 2 Labour Code The Labour Inspector often cannot impose a fine on the employer on the basis of this provision, when he suspects that, contrary to the employer's claim, the employee is not at all the first day at work. The illegal employment of workers is not only detrimental to workers but also to employers who employ workers legally because they have higher labour costs and are therefore less competitive than less honest employers, and to the state budget, which is suffering losses due to the impact of taxes and insurance premiums. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with such practices, we submit to the High House a draft law which provides for the introduction into the Labour Code of the order that the employer should confirm the basic arrangements relating to the conclusion of a contract of employment in a form other than written form before the employee is admitted to work. Having a written employment contract or a written confirmation of the basic arrangements relating to the conclusion of a non-written employment contract before admission to work will make it easier for employees to investigate their benefits and rights from the employment relationship, as well as to benefit from protection guaranteed by the provisions of the Social Insurance Act. The aim of the project is also to provide the State Labour Inspection with a more effective tool to ensure the effectiveness of controls on the legal employment of workers. Such a change will enable labour inspectors to identify illegal employment of workers whenever, in the case of checks, it appears that work in the context of employment relationships is carried out by persons with whom written employment contracts have not been concluded in advance and some have not been written down in advance of the basic conditions of employment. A material standard imposing an obligation on an employer should be accompanied by a standard to be imposed in the event of a breach of that obligation. It is therefore proposed to clarify that the fine provided for will be subject to non-confirmation in writing of the employment contract concluded with the employee before he is admitted to work. It is also proposed to make two other amendments related to the revision of the Article. 29 § 2 of the Labour Code. They aim to harmonise the nomenclature used in the Code of Labour related to the employer's obligations, which must be fulfilled before the employee is admitted to work, inter alia. familiarise the worker with the working regulations and the young worker with a list of light works. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to stress that this proposal was discussed at the Trouble Group meeting. Labour law of the Social Dialogue Council on 19 January this year. The social side of this team adopted a positive attitude towards the project, recommending the government side to extend the period of vacathio legis law to 6 weeks from the originally designed 14 days. The recommendation was accepted by the government. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please refer the draft amendment to the Labour Code in print No 298 for further work in the Sejm Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u283	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. The first will be presented by Barbara Bartus on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u284	Thank you! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act in print No 298. The draft law amending the Labour Code Act, as the Minister said here, aims to introduce an order to confirm to the employee in writing the basic arrangements relating to the conclusion of the employment contract before the employee is admitted to work, thereby increasing the protection of workers' rights and preventing illegal employment. The current regulation allows employers to, you can say, unpunished illegal employment of workers. They were carried out by the State Labour Inspection. Within 7 years, the labour inspection checked the legality of the employment of 146 000. entities. The infringement was found in every other employer. Most inspections were carried out in those sectors where the greatest risk of infringement was identified in previous years. These were trade, processing and construction. Over half, 'cause 65%. the entities audited were such small entities, the smallest ones. In seven years of control, the state inspection concluded that, once again, I would repeat what the second entity had been subject to violations in this area. In total, during this period, labour inspectors found breaches of the employment contract rules and the notification to social security of nearly 162 000. persons. This is the data from the labour inspection report that presented this report last year. The bill we are working on today is not the first proposal for such a change. We, as the Law and Justice, have already applied for such a change in the previous term, because this change, as the Minister said, is also needed for the good functioning of not only state institutions, not only so that the labour inspection can verify the legality of employment, but is also very beneficial for the workers themselves who are often employed illegally today, also for honest operators. We are talking about detected irregularities, but we must assume that most employers in Poland work fairly and these employers do not have equal access to the service market because people who illegally employ workers do not pay public danin and certainly some work can do cheaper. Today, people who work legally give an employee all the benefits due under the Labour Code are placed in a worse position. That is why I believe that this proposal, this change will be beneficial, once again, for workers, but also for the labour market in general, for services provided on the Polish market and will no longer occur... At least to some extent... [[It's a disaster!]] ...this practice of not giving contracts and saying during the audit that this is the first day of work, will be cut short. I, too, will take the opportunity to share my own experience. I started my first job in years when the labour market looked different, but I also didn't have a job contract before I started working. I had an accident just after work. It was possible to confirm the contract for up to 7 days. Unfortunately, I was in the hospital, I was broken, and I got a contract under the worst conditions for 30 days - even though the conversations showed that I was coming permanently, it was supposed to be my permanent job - but at the moment when I got unhappy, not because of me, an accident. That's why it's like this. also for safety, so that the worker who goes to work has this security, the certainty that this agreement will be signed, that he will not work for many months in black. I believe that this is a very good proposal to change, and that is why on behalf of my own Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that this project be directed to further work in the [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u285	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Mrzygłock, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the government's draft amendments to the Labour Code presented in Seym printing No 298. High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum to this project, we read that its main objective is to reduce the grey area. Unfortunately, this phenomenon still seems to be a big problem for our labour market. There is a social right for these types of practices, which are one of the elements of unfair competition. The Civic Platform supports any action limiting the grey area, but we have some comments on this project. The fact is that now the conclusion of a written agreement and the notification of this fact to the relevant institutions may take place at the end of the first day and can indeed lead to a situation where such an alleged first day takes a week, a month or more until the State Labour Inspection checks. However, we need to realise that unfair practices take place by mutual agreement. Of course, we can ask ourselves who has more to gain or lose on such a deal. We can argue that young people taking up first jobs are easier to manipulate. However, the facts are that today it is enough for a commonly used mobile phone to be able to document the fact of doing work. Thus, it seems that the actual problem does not apply to the relevant documentation, but rather to the employee's willingness to disclose the unfair behaviour of the employer. It is worth considering, therefore, whether the government's proposal that an employer should be required to create a preliminary document confirming employment before a person takes up new duties is indeed a solution to the problem we are talking about. After all, it is not difficult to enter a date into such a document only at the time of inspection. Unfair collusion will still be difficult to prove. I would like to remind you that the provisions that this project is about to change were designed primarily for companies with a complex organizational structure, having a headquarters far away from the workplace of employees or entrepreneurs using the services of external accounting companies. Under the law in emergency situations, economic operators have the possibility of hiring a new employee quickly. We can imagine what kind of emergency situations this is all about. This is, for example, a abandonment of work or a sudden illness and a necessary immediate replacement. It is interesting to note that in 2014 nearly 1/5 companies controlled by the State Labour Inspection were exposed to employees without any documentation. All of these cases seem unlikely to be the result of these emergencies. As I mentioned earlier, there is still a consent to the functioning of the grey zone in our country, and perhaps we should focus primarily on educational activities in order to change this state. On the other hand, with regard to the concrete ad hoc action proposed by the government, the Civic Platform believes that this proposal should be further discussed, in particular by examining opinions and listening to our social partners. We therefore request that the project be referred to the committee for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u287	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Agnieszka Szczaj, Kukiz Poselski Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u288	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act. The proposed amendment concerns the essential element - the need to conclude a written agreement before actually admitting a worker to work, to carry out his duties. This amendment is intended to enhance the protection of workers' rights in the exercise of their benefits and rights in relation to employment, the possibility of benefiting from social benefits. It is also intended to prevent illegal employment and, above all, to assist in the effective control of the State Labour Inspection on the legal employment of workers. The bill certainly seals the code system, only to what extent. As a result, regulations do not provide a comprehensive solution to illegal employment. The percentage of entrepreneurs employing persons will only be reduced without written confirmation of the contract. The entrepreneur will be able to be fined, from 1 000. Up to 30,000. zł, by the controllers of the State Labour Inspection, so the revenue to the budget will increase for sure. Moreover, if the amendment is in some way beneficial, it will only affect a small proportion of people. However, the proposed amendment does not raise our major concerns, and as a Kukiz club, we will support its referral to further work in the committee. However, there is a public rhetoric that has not been silent in the mouth of politicians for many years. If we start talking about the labour market, about workers' rights, about job creation, then we start with such medialy well-selling unilateral changes - it is about cosmetic changes to the Labour Code or changes to minimum wages. This is all important, absolutely, we have no doubt here, but it doesn't really improve the situation of employees. Such apparent but well-publicised activities are often consciously used by the governing parties to conflict unfortunately with workers and employers. It often flows to Poles such a message - even this message we could hear in this Chamber - on the one hand they are the bad, bad, using the people of the employer, and on the other hand the claim, who have grievous employees. Unfortunately, the problem is elsewhere. Such rhetoric is convenient for the authorities, for the politicians who rule, because it is because of such perceiving one another in a given situation that distracts one's attention from an important problem. Unfortunately, the cause of the grey economy, as well as low wages, the poor situation of workers is the high burden of employers and workers' labour costs. That's worth emphasising. Law in Poland should protect workers from dishonest employers, but it should not be called dishonest for the employer principle. This was also the case in communist Poland, when the propaganda of the Polish People's Republic very often consciously called private entrepreneurs mincers and badgers. You know these terms. Unfortunately, we are also contributing to this situation of conflict by seemingly acting. Like employers, employees don't want to break the law. - they don't want to take advantage of each other. Everyone is not by nature bad, everyone wants to work honestly for this country. Protection of employees and regulations will only pass the exam when employers and employees will pay less for living in Poland, the power that sometimes behaves like its owner. In conclusion, I will ask a question quite rhetorical, but it is proof that the state is only theoretically trying to protect jobs. If the company is going through a crisis, there is no sale for goods and in a given month there is no money for payments to its employees or there is no money to cover the burdens that the State is applying, then is there any provision that will exempt it in such a month from contributions to the Social Security Office, taxes and other charges, so that it can pay out, for example. Your employees' debts, but she didn't have to fire those people? Of course not - unfortunately, he has to pay the racket first and then he can only pay the workers. A healthy and good labour market is a common interest for workers and employers, so in both of these groups let's build a willingness to cooperate and agree, let's not share them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u289	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of the draft law amending the Labour Code Act is to introduce an obligation for the employer to conclude a contract of employment in writing before the employee is admitted to work. To date, in accordance with the Article. 29 § 2 Labour Code This obligation existed on the day of starting work, which means that the employer had time to sign the contract until the end of the first day of the employee's work. The rules in this form leave a wide scope for abuse and employment in the grey area and effectively hinder the State Labour Inspection process of checking the legality of employment. The rule is to explain to employers that the day on which the legality of employment is controlled is the first day of the worker's work. This is the so-called minister mentioned by you. First-day syndrome. This situation is unacceptable, especially since circumvention is relatively easy, widespreadly exploited and employment in the shadow economy creates large disparities in the labour market. The proposed amendment to the Labour Code aims to eliminate the pathologies mentioned above and, first, to enhance the protection of workers' rights, second, to facilitate the investigation of workers' benefits and rights from employment relationships, thirdly, also to benefit from the protection guaranteed by social security rules and to make the State Labour Inspection more effective tools to ensure the effectiveness of checks on the legal employment of workers. During the legislative process, the project was sent to the social partners - both employees' representatives, e.g. trade unions, as well as employers' organisations, e.g. Confederation of Leviatan, Employers' Union Business Centre Club or Employers of the Republic of Poland. And so, sequentially: The Confederation of Leviathan indicates that the direction of the proposed changes is correct, albeit incomplete, because it does not take into account possible administrative problems in large companies with a complex organizational structure, as well as when the keeping of the company's personnel and accounting records is passed on to third parties. Business Centre Club, on the other hand, believes that these changes, although they do not affect too much of the regulation of the Labour Code, can significantly improve the safety of workers both in the labour market and within the context of the employment relationship itself. The Polish employers also point out that the direction of change is right, but they signal, like Leviathan, that administrative problems can arise both in large companies, which will have to reorganise their staff systems and in small companies, where the formalities relating to employment are carried out by the owner, and I remind you that the burdens imposed on employers before the employee is admitted to work, i.e. the obligation to send for health and safety training, to carry out research on occupational medicine, are the burdens that employers most often complain about, which hinder flexibility in the labour market. These opinions were also very critical. For example, the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers assesses the project as harmful and unnecessarily stiffening labour law standards, indicating that the proposed provision is in no way consistent with the economic reality, particularly in the case of industries where there are often sudden staff shortages necessary for immediate completion. In the opinion of the Supreme Court, too, it raises doubts about the new wording of the article. Point 281 (2) of the Labour Code is not appropriate to change the wording of Article. 104 § 2 Labour Code and Art. 200 § 5 of the Labour Code. In both cases, the need to fulfil the information obligation prior to the commencement of work, which, according to the Supreme Court, is synonymous with the admission to work, so even with regard to the obligation to familiarise the youth worker with the list of light works, the employer must not hide the claim that he is to fulfil these obligations on the day of commencement of work. There is therefore no need to modify these regulations. That's what the Supreme Court's opinion is about. The positive effect of these changes and these provisions of the Act will be the benefits of the inclusion of workers in the public system, including the possibility of using public health services, as well as the inclusion of social security systems - pensions and pensions. In the case of code agreements, the benefits for workers will also be covered by the rights resulting from the employment relationship, inter alia. paid holiday or sickness benefits. In view of the fact that the draft amendment is a project that is going in the right direction in order to protect workers' rights, the Modern will support further work in the committee, but we suggest that the Supreme Court's opinions be taken into account in this work because they are well founded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u291	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas from the club of the Polish People's Party will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u292	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position towards the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act, print No 298. Ladies and gentlemen! The subject of the project is the amendment of the Article. 29 § 2 of the Labour Code. This provision currently provides that a contract of employment is to be concluded in writing. If the employment contract has not been concluded in writing, the employer should, at the latest on the day on which the employee starts working, confirm to the employee in writing the arrangements concerning the parties to the contract, the type of contract and its terms and conditions. The draft provides for the amendment of the Article. 29 § 2 of the Labour Code imposing an obligation on the employer to confirm the employee in writing the arrangements for the parties to the contract, the type of contract and its conditions prior to the admission of the worker to work where the employment contract has not been concluded in writing. Ladies and gentlemen, other changes to the provisions of the Article also deserve to be accepted. 104 § 2, Article 200 § 5 and Art. 281 point 2 of the Labour Code. It is understandable that the government is carrying out the announcements of the President of this government in the person of the Prime Minister and is trying to report the projects relevant to the line set out in the exposé. In a monolithic age, a common vision of changes in the Labour Code is worthwhile, though different from the government camp. Let me give you one example on this occasion, which will help me to demonstrate the intention of my position. From the article. 181... Excuse me, Art. § 188 § 1 of the Labour Code we learn that: § 1. A worker who has at least one child up to 14 years of age shall be exempt from 16 hours or 2 days of work during a calendar year, with the right to remuneration and reading this hypothesis together with Article. 189 Labour Code that if both parents or guardians of a child are employed, this entitlement shall be granted to one of them. The choice that parents or carers will use depends on the stakeholders themselves. There is also no obstacle to parents or carers sharing the right to this exemption and each of them enjoying one day off, but the exemption is independent of the number of children. Going further - this is also about building family policies, in order to increase birth rates, even if the 500+ programme, which moves significantly in prima aprilis - I would like to draw attention to this state of affairs and show the lack of justice and discrimination in our legal system of families greater than 2+1. On the other hand, as regards the proposed amendment itself, I find that this is an appropriate legislative procedure and, with a slight amendment of the existing regulations, it will increase the security of workers in the context of the establishment of a employment relationship which, assessed as an obligation of the worker to provide work to the employer at the place and time specified by him, under his direction, as well as the obligation of the employer to pay the appropriate remuneration, is checked by the State Labour Inspection inspectors, with all the consequences of its existence or non-existence. This change should therefore be considered appropriate and worthy of being introduced in the context of labour rights and labour law certainty in general. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support further work on the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u293	Thank you very much. Six Members have asked questions. I'm closing my list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. [[One and a half minutes.]] All right, one and a half minutes. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk from the Kukiz club will be the first to speak15. He's gone, I see. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Trade unions, honest employers and labour inspectors have long sought such a change because it was not possible to actually accuse an employer who employed in black. I would like to ask you to explain how many such cases took place - percentage or numerically - when the labour inspectors were able to say that employment had taken place for a long time, while there was no employment contract, and from the employer it was explained that this was the first day. I remember a situation like this when a so-called employee. On the first day, the machine took a hand and was left without insurance, without anything. I'm talking about insurance on purpose because there's been a charge here about labour costs. Poland belongs to the three countries of the European Union, where labour costs are lowest and there is also a very strong correlation between costs, labour costs and the innovative economy, innovation of the economy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it must be remembered that without these costs in the form of ZUS contributions there would be no payment of pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u295	Thank you very much. Now you ask Rafał Wójcikowski from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as this law is concerned, I would like to ask a question because I have the impression that it is primarily necessary for the Treasury of the State, the Social Security Office and the State Labour Inspection, in the second place for employees and, in the third place, for employers. I am speaking at the moment on behalf of Members of Freedom, so I would like to say that this is another restriction of freedom and another interference in contracts between those who provide work and those who employ. This is unacceptable, because this is an increase in redecisiveism when it comes to socialism in the economy. It's not gonna do any good. The question is: Why has there been such a practice so far that it was possible to work all day and only then get a contract? Because it is not entirely clear whether an employee is fit for a given job, and it can sometimes not be said without an eyeful confirmation of the case. The employee needs to feel, check himself, the employer needs to check him out at the workplace. Or else what? The employer's supposed to sign with him, determine the terms, and then after an hour, he's gonna turn out to be no good at all? Or on the contrary - is it to prove that the employee is even better and can be promoted to a completely different position? In my opinion, those who apply for such a law are concerned only the ZUS contributions and the powers and prerogatives of the State Labour Inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u297	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The new rules aim to prevent illegal employment. According to the State Labour Inspection, existing legislation often leads to situations where employers explained the lack of an appropriate employment contract with an employee, that he is only at work on the first day. I ask the Minister to clarify the concept of art. 29 § 2 in which the entry is amended. He says that the employer should confirm in writing the arrangements for the parties to the contract, the nature of the contract and its conditions before the employee is admitted to work. So in my opinion, the employer should report the employee to the Social Security Office on the day of the admission to work. At this point, it would be logical. What is the employer's written confirmation? Maybe you can tell us more about this. Can you put this directly in the bill? Otherwise, the interpretation of this record can be quite broad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u299	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Mrs Lidia Gądek from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The revision of the Labour Code in this section seems to be correct and necessary. However, it seems that I use the words 'cause I do not share this hurrahoptimism of the government as to the salvific impact of the new regulation. I dare doubt how some of the people in this room, or even half of the nearly 0.5 million people currently working in the grey area 6 weeks after the announcement of the amendment, will legalise the work carried out on the basis of a written employment contract or on the basis of civil law. We should definitely use the carrot method, not constantly restricting and sticking, i.e. reducing labour costs, promoting conscientious employers, rather than constantly multiplying restrictions on those who still celebrate the law. In view of the above, I ask you to give an estimate of the number of people who, in the opinion of government specialists, have certainly already carried out appropriate studies - they will start to work legally this year. Please also specify the amount of budget impact you expect as a result of the increase in the number of people legally employed. Are you expecting real growth or labour inspection penalties? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please also state whether the State Labour Inspection will receive some detailed new instructions on the procedure in relation to the proposed amendment. Will there be more of these checks, or will there be the same ones? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u301	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2015, the labour inspection carried out a check in probably 22 thousand. entities, stating that the rules on the legality of employment or the use of contracts of employment are infringed in each second case. These are the facts that should affect the imagination of my esteemed speakers, because from the statements of my predecessors it appears that nothing of this happened, even the problem is being analysed. The problem is important, because applicants, I think, are about civilising labour law, and not, so to speak, putting it into this channel of 19th-century capitalism, first of all. Secondly, here I have a question for the Minister: will the grey zone decrease due to these changes? That's one thing. And secondly, is the fine range of 1 000. PLN up to 30,000. Is the zloty too big? Shouldn't a much higher lower amount be introduced? Because today it's $1,000. The employer pulls out at the labour inspector, puts it on the table, saying, "Here you go, I pay the penalty for it and leave the inspector alone. These are pictures taken from life. I mean, the employers from the labour inspectors are actually playing games. Couldn't those forks be flattened? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u303	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Stanisław Szwed, Minister of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the club appearances and for supporting our project. In general, for the whole debate. Of course, there were some threads in this debate. First question about... I may not be referring to one speech and the question of the representative of the Kukiz group, because I do not know how to answer this question very well, and I want to be here as precise as possible. As far as gray area issues are concerned. Of course, we are all aware that we are dealing with labour market and labour rights issues, that this amendment does not solve the problem of eliminating the shadow economy. She's supposed to let this gray zone get smaller. It is a constant struggle for us to apply labour law rules that protect the worker on the one hand and prevent unfair competition and eliminate the grey zones on the other. And this request, which we have sought to enable the State Labour Inspection to carry out an effective check, has served for many years now. It's already been said in this room today. If today we have such a provision that the employer can deliver the contract of employment by the end of the first day of work, it was a common case, most often it was the answer - and these checks of the State Labour Inspection have clearly shown - that the employee is the first time at work. There have been questions by Mrs Tomaszewska about the quantity. It is worth noting that at national level, the National Labour Inspection controls 10% bets. If of those 10% betting concerns of non-compliance with workers' rights in relation to non-confirmation of written contracts concern almost 20%, i.e. very high interest. In figures, it was over 13 thousand, even more in 2014, which is even more increasing. Of course, it would be good if there was such a situation that this culture of work So to say, it improves that employers do not use different runways to circumvent the law or make life easier for themselves. It is not exactly what you said, too, that if we reduce labour costs, we automatically eliminate the grey zone. Unfortunately, that's not how it works. Even when reducing labour costs, there will be again groups of people who will try to circumvent the law. And this is the whole process that we are fighting for to bring about a situation where we will significantly reduce the grey area by such actions, among other things. But here I would like to say right away, because there were also other examples given, Mr PSL spoke about changes to the solutions adopted in the previous term of the Sejm. Let me remind you that this was a presidential project on parental leave and the use of time to take care of the child. This issue is also to be considered and improved. We are preparing to set up a codification committee for changes in labour law. We want, and this is an ambitious goal, to prepare for the end of the term of office a new Code of Labour - collective labour relations, individual labour relations, and also on the basis of projects previously prepared by the codification committee, which has worked for four years, composed of professors of labour law. This work was completed in 2006. Many valuable records were then prepared, and it is worth taking advantage of it. We want to prepare new solutions. Let me remind you that the 1974 Labour Code has already been amended several times and it is worth working on this. So that in this respect we want to prepare changes to the Labour Code. As far as the issue is concerned, Mrs Płępek asked about it - related to social security, i.e. to introduce a provision so that the signing of the contract automatically with admission to work would also be a notification to the Social Security Office, there is no need to do so, because today these provisions clearly indicate that this person is already insured at the time of starting work. Confirmation of this fact in the ZUS may be within 7 days. There is no need for this change, especially since it already concerns another act - the Social Insurance Act. There is no need to apply this provision here. With regard to the opinion - and the modern Member also asked - the Supreme Court, we believe that this opinion on the revision of the article. 104 and Article 104 200 § 5 saying that there is no need for this record... We want to clarify that this should be made clear so that it is clear that the question of informing whether medical examinations must be dealt with before the worker is admitted to work. And such information an employee, whether young or otherwise, should receive. So it seems, I think, that this change - although not something that will decisively eliminate the grey area, but will significantly facilitate the State Labour Inspection to carry out checks - will improve the climate in terms of hiring workers. I hope that in the codification committee, to which this project will probably be addressed, as there has not yet been a proposal against it, we will be able to convert and accept it quite quickly. As I have said, we are preparing to set up a codification committee for changes to labour law with the intention of preparing two new labour codes, namely the Code of Individual Labour Relations and the Code of Collective Labour Relations, so to review the Code that works, but also to use the Codes drawn up by the Codification Committee, on which work was completed in 2006. Once again, I thank you all for your club speeches, for your questions, and I ask you to continue your work in the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u305	Thank you very much, Minister. This concludes the discussion. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are addressed by a government draft law amending the Labour Code Act, contained in print No 298, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Tax on the Extraction of Certain Copies (Print No 301). I ask Mrs Ewa Drozd to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u306	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of this draft law is to amend the Law of 12 March 2012 on the tax on the extraction of certain fossils and concerns the suspension of its collection in the period from 1 April 2016 to 31 December 2017. But before I move on to the justification for this change, it is worth recalling that the 2012 Act was introduced at a time when Poland and other countries were struggling with the economic crisis. It was therefore reasonable for the State, as owner of natural resources, to transfer some of the revenue from these deposits to the public finance sector. It has not been and is not a novelty since such taxation is widely used in countries with such deposits. The price of copper and silver on the world markets was also important at the time, because it has a significant impact on the situation of the copper and silver producer, i.e. KGHM Polska Miedź. Thus, during the period of preparation and introduction of this tax, the average price of red metal in 2012 was at USD 7950 per tonne and in 2011 its price was record - almost 10,000. A dollar a ton. According to the reports prepared by the Ministry of Finance, the financing of this tax did not threaten the company until 2014. There was no decrease in employment, no change in remuneration conditions, no closure of any branch of the company, all planned investments were carried out, and even despite the introduction of the tax in 2012 at the turn of 2012 and 2013, KGHM's share quotations reached their historical maximum. The situation deteriorated when the price of copper and silver fell dramatically in 2015 and reached 4 000. A dollar a ton. The same decrease in prices was also noted by the second of the metals subject to tax, i.e. silver. And it is precisely this fall in prices, at the same time forecasting that in 2 years the price of red metal can reach 8,000. USD per tonne justifies the proposal to amend the Mining Tax Act in such a way as to suspend the tax obligation in question for the time of the price depression of copper and silver, because such a continuing decrease in the prices of raw materials subject to that tax will not only result in lower revenue to the budget, but also have very serious consequences for copper and silver miners, namely KGHM. It may result in a decrease in the profitability of current production, particularly dangerous for KGHM branches, where the situation is much worse than the overall situation of the company. I am referring to the Mining Works Lubin, which systematically declines profitability. It may also result in a decrease in the profitability of the planned investments, the failure to implement them, and thus the reduction of future copper extraction in Poland, the abandonment of investments in the vicinity of Bolesławica. It can also increase debt and reduce the development opportunities of copper and silver miners from Polish deposits due to the increasingly poor conditions of extraction. I mean deposits in Jakubów, Głogów Deep, because these deposits are low, there is a high temperature, there are also gases, such as hydrogen sulphide, which significantly increase copper ore extraction. Therefore, the period of suspension of this tax will be an excellent time to analyse the formula for charging this tribute, often criticised not only by the managers of the company, but also by scientists and specialists in this field. It will also be a good time to introduce changes that will allow KGHM Polska Miedź to operate and develop safely. Perhaps it is worth, as it is in other countries, taxing the result, i.e. profit, and not, as it is applied on the basis of a functioning law, the amount of extracted but not sold raw material, because the time from extraction to sale is usually a period from 1 month to 2 months. This is today, as you can see, the right time, as it has also since this year introduced taxation on other institutions, such as banks, insurance companies. So it is worth resting the company that helped and supported the state budget in difficult times. High Izbo! An important aspect is also the financial impact, which due to low prices of copper and silver will not allow the implementation of budgetary plans and will oscillate at the level of PLN 500 million. In the budget, let me remind you, the amount of PLN 1.5 billion has been written down. This would be possible if the price of copper were to be at a level of 6 and 7 000. A dollar a ton, and that's not how it is today, as we know. The fall in the budgetary impact will therefore be balanced by the increase in the value of KGHM's shares. The suspension of this tax will increase KGHM's investment, which will increase the indirect revenue of the state budget, as well as local authorities, which are suffering from post-captive effects in their territories. This bill goes against the announcements of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who announced in Lubin on 6 October 2015 the introduction of a law eliminating this tax, which she assessed as unfair and harmful as from 1 January 2016. However, we, the applicant, with a view to the security of the state budget, propose the suspension of this tax, its verification and perhaps a revision of the formula used. We give time to make good decisions and good changes. We are convinced that you will support our proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u307	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Maria Zuba, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice my position on the draft law amending the law on the extraction of certain fossils submitted in print No 301. High Izbo! This project and the legal regulations contained therein are a remorse for the Civic Platform's conscience. When, in February 2012, supported by PSL Members, they introduced a tax on the extraction of certain fossils, they convinced Poles and us Members that the entrepreneur's benefit from the extraction of state-owned raw materials justifies the imposition of additional taxes on the trader. They assured that the copper and silver economy would definitely improve. Member of the Civic Platform, rapporteur of the project, pointing to tax solutions in Chile and other countries, argued that it was necessary to regulate the legal situation as it looks all over the world, so that we can all actually profit from what we as Poles are owners, in this case copper. Mr Rosati assured that the introduction of the tax would not result in a risk of loss on the core business, even at copper prices below 15 000. PLN per tonne that it is unjustified to fear that the tax will lead to a deterioration of the company's profitability, a decrease in its investment capacity and the need to reduce employment. He said that there was no concern that the funds for the company's development would be limited, he assured that after taking into account this tax the company would be one of the most profitable not only in Poland but also in Europe. It should be fair to say that the Member has made it clear that the dividend may be paid or that it may not be paid and that, after the introduction of the fossil tax, the total burden will be more than 50%. With applause from the Civic Platform, Mr Rosati concluded his speech with the words: So please do not have a catastrophic vision that KGHM is on the verge of bankruptcy. I'm ready to take over this bankrupt. Law and Justice already at that time, in 2012, during the work on the law prepared by the government of PO and PSL proposed above all the reduction of this tribute to world average levels. We pointed out that what you introduced was a very grossly high tribute, really at the highest rate in the world, reducing the profitability of this company. Members of Law and Justice based their position on the opinion of the company, which announced the introduction of this tax by Prime Minister Tusk in the exposé, said that she was ready to bear the annual fiscal burden of PLN 700.800 million. We warned that such a large tax would increase the loss, which would destroy the company. The impact on the budget of more than PLN 1.8 billion from tax cost the budget a loss of dividend of PLN 10 billion. The tax paid at such a high level was also a violation of ownership for the shareholders. Danina concerned practically only one company - KGHM. Prime Minister Szydło in the Polish economy sees a different place for KGHM than was imposed by the government of PO and PSL, which sold a significant part of the company prior to the introduction of the tax. As a result of this over-estimated sale of the Treasury instead of 100% He only participated in less than 32% of the dividend payment. The PO and PSL government persistently did not agree to a public hearing during the work on the Kogalin Tax Act. He did not allow representatives of local governments in which KGHM operates to speak. He introduced the tax during the financial year, did not take into account the fact that after its introduction KGHM would have to correct long-term investment plans. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, just a second, okay? Unfortunately, as a result, your law also broke investor confidence in Poland. Because of her, you have systematically reduced KGHM's competitiveness. Today, referring to the announcement by Prime Minister Beata Szydło that he will eliminate this unfair and harmful tax, the PO proposes not to abolish the tax, but to suspend it for the period from 1 April 2016 until the end of 2017. In the explanatory memorandum, the company's profitability is very low. So the experiment didn't work. So let us, Members of the POs, agree together that your limit of doing evil to the detriment of KGHM has run out. In the opinion of Prime Minister Szydło KGHM should be the flagship of the Polish economy and invest in development. And that's why in her election program she was in favour of abolishing the fossil tax. Yeah, the fossil tax needs to be abolished. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I propose that the bill be submitted to the Committee on Public Finance to carry out further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u309	Madame, you have exceeded a great deal of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u310	I assure you that we will analyze the tax calculation formula and introduce changes that will allow the company to operate and develop safely. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u311	Thank you. Ms Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will speak next.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the Parliamentary draft law amending the law on the extraction of certain minerals, print No 301. The draft law notified by the Civic Platform aims to suspend the collection of fossil tax until 31 December 2017. The fossil tax law entered into force in April 2012, 4 years ago, and introduced a tax obligation for entities operating in the field of copper and silver mining. The price of copper and silver on world markets has a fundamental impact on tax levels. Since 2011, the world markets have had very high prices for these raw materials. At that time the average price of copper was almost 10,000. USD per tonne and 2012 - almost 8,000. A dollar a ton. Digging is a national good and at very favourable prices can be a source of revenue for the state budget. This gave rise to the introduction of a tax on some fossils. However, in the following years prices for these raw materials systematically decreased and now the price of copper reaches only half of the price recorded in 2012. The same is true of the price of silver. While a mechanism is used to determine the impact of raw material prices on the amount of raw materials, this mechanism is used to determine the tax. does not reduce sufficiently significant price fluctuations. In such a situation, the amount of concentrate produced or the amount of copper and silver produced in the product is increasingly affected by taxes. During the legislative procedure preceding the introduction of the fossil tax, the statutory requirement for regular monitoring of the financial impact of the tax on the financial condition of economic operators in this area was adopted. Each year, the Ministry of Finance conducted such analyses for the Sejm. They pointed to a decrease in the profitability of entrepreneurs who increasingly raised this problem. The fossil tax case was heavily used in the last election campaign. In the current situation of a significant fall in the price of silver and copper, but at the same time promising, as I would like to stress, the global forecasts announcing a rapid increase in the prices of these raw materials, the best solution is to suspend the collection of the tax and re-examine the appropriateness of its continued application or to change the formula of this tax. For industry players, this will be the time to increase investment before the new price economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u313	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased that the member of the PiS Club quoted very widely, referring to the work at the moment when this tax was introduced. I've never been a big fan of his, but I also think there was a moment where he was needed... [[But you voted in favour.]] However, he has exhausted his role. That's all you've been quoting is true, because the company hasn't collapsed, the company has been doing great over the years, investing the most in its history. Large investments in the Głogów, Głogów Deep, were also able to buy a lot of foreign deposits. The company paid huge taxes, also paid profits, paid employees record money. But it is also important to remember that the situation has changed today, that the external situation is changing, and that we all have to react. You announced this in your campaign in September. It was October, and you said that you would soon eliminate this, as you call it, unfair tax. [[Eight years.]] So I think it's very good to put this project on the committee, but I hope that it doesn't get stuck in the committee, in the commission freezer, but that the committee will go to work immediately. You have shown that you can work in night mode, morning mode, even 14 hours as necessary, so I hope that in a similar mode we will work on this bill so that it will enter into force as soon as possible. We assumed that this tax should be suspended from April 1. We know that this is not going to work any more, but every month this is a huge opportunity for the company to save big money, the more that KGHM Polska Miedź SA really pays much lower taxes for this than was assumed in the budget, due to the price of copper. Because there is currently such a low price of copper in the market, we must react and this tax must necessarily be suspended and rethinked its formula. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am very pleased that the PiS club is open to this, but I encourage you to work quickly on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u315	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Oda, Kukiz Poselski Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the law on the extraction of certain minerals. The Kukiz Club15 generally calls for simple, low and fair taxes. Any tax reduction initiative should be analysed taking into account these three criteria. Unfortunately, the initiative of the Civic Platform Group does not meet them because it creates uncertainty about state policy in this important area of the national economy. The suspension of tax collection is not contrary to the principles of tax law, nor does it affect European Union law, including competition law, but creates an atmosphere of temporary and chaos legislative solutions for the industry. The legislative quality of the project, which appears rather to be part of political marketing, raises concerns. The content of the draft law has been limited to an absolute minimum, thereby violating the principles of correct legislation. The need to regulate, among others, has been omitted. the reporting obligation referred to in Article. 14 law, registration obligation as described in Article. 15 and 16 laws and statutory delegations referred to, inter alia, in Section VII of the Act. In the justification of the project we read that the revenue from the tax on the extraction of certain fossils amounts to about PLN 1.1.5 billion per year. This is more than 0.5% annual revenue from taxes. The suspension of the tax obligation will have a significant impact on the state of public finances and the loss will have to be completed. Applicants do not propose new sources of financing for the deficit. The indication of an increase in the value of KGHM's shares does not imply a higher revenue of the state budget. Moreover, there is no basis for an increase in investment expenditure by KGHM during the period under consideration. The explanatory memorandum lacks a reliable analysis of the economic situation of the entity addressed by the amendment of the law. In 2015, the Council KGHM recorded 2788 million losses at unit level and PLN 5012 million losses at consolidated level, but one year earlier this was PLN 2414 million and PLN 2450 million profit respectively. The Minister of Treasury pointed out the need for an audit in KGHM Polska Miedź SA, which is to show, among others. the reasons for the investment problems carried out by the company in Chile. The company's management confirmed the start of an audit, the results of which are expected at the end of April and May. Thus, the parliamentary initiative is at least premature if we do not know the precise situation of the company. In addition to the field of substantive considerations on the principles of correct legislation and economics, the question of justifying the Ironic Law with reference to the electoral promises made by the Prime Minister. The current political fight can be conducted during a public debate, among others. during the discussion phase of the draft law, but the political arguments in this discussion should not be transferred to the content of the justification of the law. As a basis for consideration in this regard, it should be pointed out that the fossil tax is one of the basic instruments for the participation of the whole nation in the raw materials resources of the country, and that giving up its collection bears the mark of expropriation of the nation from its rights. Manipulating taxes without a clear justification of national interest violates the principles of social justice. The fossil tax was introduced by the PO-PSL government in 2012, which the applicants do not seem to remember. In order to justify its introduction, a representative of the Minister of Finance of the previous government stated that, here I recall, there is no justification for the huge profits of the copper sector to keep the government at a low level to date. Other countries rich in raw materials are fully aware of the need to participate in the benefits of non-renewable fossils, which they have been doing for many years. The Treasury, and therefore, the general public of the Republic of Poland, has exclusive ownership of the deposits used, so it has the full right to carry out the benefits associated with them for the general good. End of speech. As a general rule, this statement should be accepted. It should be noted that chaotic legislative initiatives, especially in the area of taxation, create turbulence for investors with additional political, administrative and economic risks, which should be avoided at all costs. The duration of the mining projects is several dozen times longer than the period of suspension of the tax proposed in the draft law. The introduction of such ephemeral solutions may have a negative impact on the assessment of the viability of long-term mining projects. In view of the above, Kukiz15 does not support the bill submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u317	Thank you very much. Now you will be speaking with Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The tax, which concerns one company from my region, the Lubinian company KGHM, has been levied for several years since 18 April 2012, which is in fact since the entry into force of the Law of 2 March 2012 on the extraction of certain fossils. It is collected exclusively from copper and silver. The forecast of revenue from this tax assumed revenue of about PLN 1.8 billion, which was actually 0.7% all tax revenue of the state budget. In practice, revenues were made at a much lower level. The elimination of the tax, as is estimated today, is basically 500 million for the budget, and this is mainly due to the fall in raw material prices. The situation of the copper and silver producers is significantly influenced by the prices of this raw material on world markets. Copper was the most expensive one in 2011 when it cost nearly 10,000 at the London Stock Exchange. Dollars. On the other hand, in 2012, when the tax was introduced, the average price was already at 8 000. A dollar a ton. Currently, the price of this metal slightly exceeds 4 000. A dollar a ton. I would like to mention that the same price decrease is noted by the second of the metals subject to the tax obligation, i.e. silver. Its prices compared to prices from the period when the tax on certain fossils was introduced also decreased by half. Such a decrease in the prices of raw materials subject to tax on certain minerals caused not only lower revenues to the budget, but also a drastic decrease in the profitability of businesses operating in the field of extraction of raw materials covered by the tax obligation. The fossil tax scale has a really complex construction. I will risk saying that this is the most complicated tax scale in the Polish tax system. The result of its technical assumptions is a higher tax increase compared to the profit increase which is an economic subject of the tax. This phenomenon occurs with varying degrees depending on the market price of copper. The increase in the price of copper generates a higher profit for the company, but the increase in profit is lower than the increase in tax. In September last year, when she was in Lubin during the campaign, she promised to abolish this tax and boasted that she had a bill ready. Today, according to reports, the Ministry of Finance is preparing its reduction by 1/3. The Civic Platform, referring to this promise, has prepared a bill leading to the failure to collect tax for less than 2 years. At that time, in the view of the applicants, an analysis should be undertaken in order to establish a new formula for this tax. From the perspective of the taxpayer, many negative aspects of this tax can be mentioned: the high share of fixed costs, the need for continuous recovery of production capacity, the need to provide financing for the strategic investment programme over a period of 3 and 5 years, the need to carry out underlying transactions, hedges, the need to stabilise revenues for up to 3 years and to ensure the sustainability of the financing of the investment programme. Many negative aspects can be mentioned. Unfortunately, there are not many positive aspects. The advantage of the proposed solution is above all that this form of tribute is more socially acceptable than any further increase in indirect taxes. I believe that this tax should never really be introduced. Therefore, the Modern will support measures to fully withdraw from collecting the tax on certain minerals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u319	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Pudłowski from the Modern Club will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u320	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With regard to the amendment of the law on excavation tax, as a rule, the Modern Richard Petru, as mentioned by my colleague, as a liberal party, is in favour of a reduction, elimination and in this case a suspension of the tax. It is certainly very good information for companies mining fossils in Poland. For example, for KGHM it will be a great relief. For years the company has been struggling with volatile prices of copper deposits in the world or investments in foreign mines. Last year, as a colleague from Kukiz,15, the company recorded a net loss of PLN 5 billion, which was largely the result of huge write-downs on the loss of the value of four foreign mines: Sierra Gorda and Franke in Chile, in the Canadian suburb of Sudbury and American Robinson. That's why when we talk about change... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll extend it for a moment, if you'll excuse me. Therefore, in the context of the discussion about amending the law on the extraction of certain fossils, I would like to draw attention as a Member of the Lubuskie Voivodeship to the huge chance of using copper ore deposits in the vicinity of Bytom Odrzański and Kotla. These deposits are documented, free of political risks related to investments on distant continents, and now more economically attractive due to suspension, and perhaps in the future, as we hear, at all the abolition of this tax. For our region, the launch of copper mining would mean the creation of almost 10,000. places of well-paid work and favourable conditions for economic development. As ambassador of the Lubusian economy, I call for these investments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u321	Thank you very much. Ms Genowef Tokarska will now speak from the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Tax on the Extraction of Certain Copies, according to print No 301. The subject of the project is the amendment of the Law of 12 March 2012 on the tax on the extraction of certain minerals. The scope of the amendment concerns the suspension of the levy on copper and silver extraction from 1 April this year. Until 31 December 2017, i.e. for a period of 21 months. In their explanatory memorandum, the developers suggest that this would be an appropriate period to examine the rules for charging this tax and to make some changes to the current system of charging, while at the same time it would be time to stabilise the financial situation of KGHM Polska Miedź, whose profitability rates have fallen dramatically in recent years. The projectors also point out that they meet the intentions of the ruling party, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who announced the elimination of this unfair and harmful tax at all. The law on this subject, which was adopted by the High House in 2012, resulted, and this does not change, from the general assumption that natural resources, fossils, including copper and silver, belong to national wealth, are the property of all Poles and not only to regional good. Before the entry into force of the Act, the mining plants paid only the operating fee and property tax to local authorities, without being paid to the State budget. The tax on minerals, copper and silver resulted from some calculations, which took into account both the amount of copper and silver in the produced concentrate or in the ore of copper and silver, as well as the price of these raw materials on a given day recorded on the London Stock Exchange. The applicable rule is therefore simple: the more copper and silver in the product or in the concentrate and the higher the price of these raw materials, the higher the tax, and, of course, the other way around. At the time of the adoption of the Act in 2012, the net profit in KGHM was around the amount of PLN 8 billion, with a good level of remuneration for the crew, and the tax due at that time amounted to around PLN 1.8 billion. Today, with the drop in prices of both copper and silver, the tax according to the applicants of the project will amount to about PLN 500 million. The High Sejm also imposed an obligation to analyse periodically the situation caused by the current tax and submit this assessment to the High House. After 2 years - or, in fact, after 1.5 years - the functioning of the Act the Minister of Finance made such an assessment and it did not cross out the essence of the tax itself. At present, such an assessment should be re-evaluated for the proposed amendments to the original law. Then we would have a documented view as to whether this tax has harmed mining plants so much, or whether there are other reasons. Maybe it was the wrong investments that caused KGHM's financial condition to decrease? However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in a particular way, it is important that the economics are the least clean policy that seems dominant in this case. To sum up, High Izbo, knowing that the first reading of the bill does not prejudge its final shape, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am in favour of transferring the project to further work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u323	Thank you very much, Member. Seven Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting time for one and a half minutes. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk of the Kukiz club is the first to ask a question.15 [[There isn't.]] He's not here. Mrs Lidia Gądek from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u324	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year, less than 90 Members of Law and Justice, including current Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Marshal Marek Kuchciński, proposed exemption from the tax on the extraction of minerals of copper and silver companies in the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2026. The 10-year exemption from the said tax was, of course, announced here, also by Mrs Beata Szydło during the parliamentary campaign. Today the biggest opposition party is trying to meet your promises and remind you of the promises made. Since you were prepared to take responsibility for the tax exemption from 1 January 2016, you should have done so, in line with the bill under review, from 1 April this year. Now that you've offered it evenly, 8 months ago, the introduction of a tax exemption for 10 years, the more you should be willing to introduce it today for 20 months, even to prepare for further work on a very serious issue of fossil taxation. In order to make it clear to the honourable Members of the Law and Justice that the introduction of this tax exemption every subsequent day of 2016. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's... I'm almost done, Marshal. ...I ask the applicant once again to answer the question: If, according to reliable analyses, the trend in the decline in copper and silver prices on the world markets will persist and what this will have to do with the profitability of current production, e.g. at KGHM in Lubin? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u325	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Kossakowski, the Law and Justice Club, is now asking a question. Therefore, Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the so-called. copper tax paid on fossils - in fact it is a copper tax and silver tax paid by KGHM - this hanging it for 22 months is a move a little to grow. It's not true that the fossil tax is unfair. The fossil tax is one of the most fair taxes, because those who are lucky and have raw materials should share with the rest of society, with the rest of the country profits from these raw materials. And why introduce this relief now for 22 months? Just introduce it for 10 months and see what happens next year, but you absolutely don't have to withdraw from this tax. More unfair is the VAT that charges poor people, more unfair are income taxes, this free amount that the tribunal has challenged, and you have no time when to change it, than the fossil tax, from a company that has been making profits so far and paying dividends, had one of the highest levels of wages. So I don't see why. And the fact that at the moment the company has problems and losses is due to poor management and fatal foreign investments. Of the 9 billion you've already lost 4 billion on this investment... [[Yeah, yeah, that's right.]] ...and you'll lose the next four in a minute. And that's the problem. Start to manage better, manage companies of the Treasury effectively. If you don't have money for copper tax, I'll tell you where to get it, where KGHM's supposed to get the money. Tell him to sell the Tauron stock. He bought Tauron shares - why energy company copper? - have him sell his shares in Tauron, it'll be about 500 million zlotys, and there's already tax money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u327	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm one of the applicants for a project to amend the law on the extraction of certain fossils. This is also my next reminder, after a previous interpellation, of the abolition of the tax which the Party of Law and Justice referred to as unjust, and in the campaign she promised that this tax would be abolished. In October 2015, during the campaign at a special conference, Ms Beata Szydło, then the candidate for the Prime Minister, presented an official document on the abolition of the fossil tax. It declared that there was a law ready to be implemented in January 2016. However, neither the Prime Minister's exposé nor the 2016 budget has happened, there has been nothing to fulfill this promise, so here we are talking about another propaganda grasp. He is pleased that today you are taking the first step, although very late, and that our project will be directed to work in committee. I hope he doesn't get stuck in it for long. And the question is: Why is the tax on the extraction of certain fossils in the 2016 budget despite PiS's electoral promises? It's a general question, and now it's more specific. I wanted to ask you when the first meeting of the Finance Committee will be held, where this project will be discussed, and whether the work can go on in the same express night mode as in the case of the destruction of the Constitutional Court, the politicisation of the media or the implementation of the Police Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If so, there is a chance that tomorrow we will be able to vote on this bill - the project is easy, short, has two articles. Let's do it then, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u329	Thank you very much. The question is now asked by Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u330	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is to the government. In my speech, I have already drawn attention to the need, which was also included in the original law, the periodic analysis and assessment of the impact of the fossil tax on the situation of copper and silver mining companies. I would therefore like to ask: Is the government carrying out such an analysis, or has it already carried out such an analysis? What impact will the draft suspension of this tax have on the financial condition of the company? And is it really the fossil tax that determines the low profitability of the mining companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u331	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mr Zbigniew Biernat, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are proposing not to levy tax on certain minerals, of course copper, for the period from 1 April to 31 December, justifying the prices of this aggregate on the world markets. Therefore, the question arises. In fact, the largest price hole occurred in 2014 and 2015 i.e. in the state of government. Why was such a bill not prepared at the time and did it not come into force? And second question. There is a higher tax rate in the Act - on the amount of 15 thousand. PLN per ton of copper ore. This price of copper has never been so low. Therefore, why was such a restrictive tax, such a large tax, one of the largest in the world, valid in Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Jasiński will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the issue of this project through three reflections. Firstly, to the rapporteur. You were kind to say at the beginning that we started the whole issue in 2012 and you signalled this cesarea very strongly, Commissioner. You said it was a time of high copper prices, and at the same time it was the moment when you decided to introduce a tax on the extraction of certain minerals. You described this as the right time to introduce this tax. Secondly, you said that this was a time of crisis and that is why this tax was introduced in 2012. At the same time, it can be concluded indirectly that you are announcing the end of the crisis in Poland. Every day I am responsible, ladies and gentlemen, for monitoring the state of the tax gap in the Republic of Poland and I declare to you that this gap has continued to increase over the last years, and we are facing a permanent rise in the tax gap. That's why it's hard to accept on this canvas. That's your word. Reflection number two, and here the answer to the question from the honourable Member, was emphasised today. The mining tax law on some fossils had a calculated issue of monitoring. It was assumed that such monitoring would take place, de facto only one cesarea was defined, i.e. after 2 years of validity. In 2014, the Ministry of Finance was obliged to present relevant statistics. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I'd like to state that such monitoring is also taking place today, and the Ministry of Finance will be ready to provide relevant information on the bill under review. It may as well be prepared to report a government project and considers this issue to be extremely important. This monitoring shows, ladies and gentlemen, that the current situation of KGHM is not conditioned only by the amount of the tax on the extraction of certain fossils, but also by the investments carried out by this company. And finally a third reflection, general. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the government has not reached a position on the parliamentary bill to amend the law on the extraction of certain fossils. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u335	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Drozd, the applicant's representative, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u336	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, thank you very much for all the votes that have been cast in this room. I don't agree with everyone, and I'll try to justify it in a moment. I will start by saying something to Maria Zuby on behalf of the club. This is not a remorse, Madam Member, it is a responsibility for the state. As you know, and as my colleague said earlier, we were not all in favour of such a formula for applying this tax. Not as a tax, because many times in this room today it has been stated that these natural resources are the property of the state. Show me the country where these deposits are and no tax is collected. [[Charges.]] Tax, Member. While there is a different formula and we, when applying for the suspension of this tax, wanted to look at how this formula works. And that is not so, Minister - I can't remember who said that anymore, no, it was Mr Biernat who said - that we have only now taken care of this. That's not true. It was in 2015 that meetings were held, and a team was set up, composed of KGHM representatives, The Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Treasury, who were to develop such a model that would be satisfactory for the company, but also for the state budget. I think, Madame, that the reports of the Minister of Finance do not lie. We all had the opportunity to get acquainted with them, and what some would listen to at the committee meeting and there was no doubt about the data presented by the Ministry of Finance, unless the Minister had a different opinion. No one, at least I, when I presented this project, spoke of the bankruptcy of KGHM. I was just talking about the negative impact of this tax formula on the company or its branches. I also do not know how you have such knowledge, because I remember that when we took power, this country had forty percent in KGHM, never was 100% for our governments. Admittedly, 10% was sold And right now it's over 30%, and it was over 40%. So that's not true either. Lack of competitiveness - I do not really understand this statement, because it is the most famous company in the world. It is very competitive and counts on the world arena. In fact, the suspension of this tax is not due to a lack of profitability, but, as I have already tried to tell you, it follows from giving time to examine and find a solution that is satisfactory for the company, but also for the state budget, because you know that the commitments that you have, and which you will still have, are considerable and need to be financed, there is a need to find resources for them. I would not swear so much that you will not benefit from this form of tax. To Mr. Profits from the Kukiz Club. Badly prepared by the legislative? I don't really understand. The Sejm Analysis Office didn't get that kind of attention. It's a simple bill, just like my friend said, two articles. I don't really know what's going on here legislatively. Absolutely not an ironic approach to the Prime Minister. Full respect for the Prime Minister. We just reminded her of the promise she made. She said that there was a bill that would abolish this tax from 1 January 2016. As I said, on the basis of responsibility, we are giving the Prime Minister time to examine, in fact, whether the total liquidation is a good solution. As a colleague at the Kukiz club mentioned, such financial turbulence is not desirable and beneficial, especially in the sphere of public finances. So that you will be able to prepare for it calmly. [[And who raised the VAT?]] [[And when?]] But I'm sorry, I didn't bother you, I listened very carefully. If you'd like to make an appointment with me for a discussion on who raised the VAT, I'd be very happy to speak to you after the end of my speech. [[At least they didn't shoot the miners. Who shot the miners?]] I'm sure it's me, sir. It's like two times two. [[Mr. Marshal...]] We remembered that, and we didn't forget that we introduced that tax. In my speech, I made it clear why we did so. I'm not sure I understand the Minister, because I think we're talking about other crises. The economic crisis that the wave has been going through at this point, as far as I know, we've already got it under control, and that's all there is to it. We have had the public finance crisis and we will have a long time, so that whether the liquidation or the tax would certainly not have any decisive influence on it. Mrs Gądek asked about the downward trend. Because of this, from the information I was able to obtain, the diagnosis indicates that this price will increase over the last two to three years. It's gonna be $8,000. A dollar a ton. I agree with Mr Wojciechowski, who said it could really be 10 months. We wanted to give such a safe period to carry out any analyses, get any opinions and make such a proposal that would be optimal. Mrs Wielichowska asked when the committee. I think it's more of a question for the marshal when he directs it. I think, knowing the pace of work of my colleagues in PiS, as you say, this could happen even tomorrow. I don't really understand the position of the Modern Club, because just as it has repeatedly fallen here, this tax is on natural resources, and natural resources, however we look from which side we do not see, are the property of the nation. I fully agree that this nation should benefit from them, of course, with greater privileges for the district in which it is mined. This is clear because they have to deal with the consequences of mining on a daily basis, the consequences of this extraction. It's not easy or pleasant. Finally, I must tell you that I am very pleased that, as far as this draft law is concerned, you have not applied for rejection. Finally, I would like to say that I was the only Member of the Civic Platform who voted against this law, but not because I am against this tax, but because the tax formula applied seemed unfair to me. But for all the comments, I thank you and hope that during the committee work we will be able to develop such a model, such a bill that will gain acceptance of the entire room. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u337	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project concerns the suspension of the call for proposals. copper tax for the period from 1 April 2016 to December 2017 As we know, the government is also working on this project, and as far as I know, talks are currently underway on this issue, among others. with the social side, trade unions with KGHM Polska Miedź and the necessary analyses are carried out to complete the proposal. The project presented by the Civic Platform, which is available on the Parliament's website, contains a modest analysis as a justification and several documents to indicate consultation on this matter. Thus the President of the Supreme Court is responsible that he does not consider it appropriate to give an opinion, the Attorney General states: "The subject matter of the project remains outside the immediate area of the prosecution's action. We still have the National Judicial Council, which explains that the draft does not concern the scope of the cases to be assessed by the National Courts of Justice, so the opinion is not intended. Dear applicants, if you decide to consult on this matter, at least refer it to the relevant actors. Of course, if you have more than that, please place it in the right place so that it is generally available.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u339	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the Act on the Tax on the Extraction of Certain Copies, contained in print No 301, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Public Procurement Law and some other laws (print No 366). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Mariusz Haladyj to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft amendment to the Public Procurement Law aims primarily at implementing two European directives in 2014, i.e. so-called. the Classical Directive and the Sectoral Directive. This amendment is at the same time the first stage of the transformation of the public procurement system into a strong instrument for the implementation of the economic and social policy of the State referred to in the Responsible Development Plan prepared by Prime Minister Morawiecki. Public procurement can, in fact, be one of the strongest mechanisms for implementing the economic policy of the State. The spending of large amounts of public funds can and should therefore be directed towards achieving specific objectives. Why is the amendment, not the new law, looking at the extent of this amendment? First of all, because we listened to the voice of entrepreneurs, who quite unambiguously and uniformly presented their position in order to approach the amendment. We have therefore tried to make use of solutions that already exist in the Public Procurement Law and, at the same time, meet or are not contrary to the requirements of the Directives. This brings us to the conclusion that, in the short time we have left to implement the directives, we are still using the conceptual grid and solutions that are known to us by practitioners in this space. Therefore, looking at the time that I have already mentioned, April 2016, when these directives need to be implemented, we have decided to make an effort to prepare for the revision and carry it through the process - just as the first step - to change public procurement policy. After the amendment, it was also Prime Minister Morawiecki, the Minister for Development, who announced that work on a completely new public procurement system will begin, and I stress the system and not only the law, because here both legislative and non-legislative actions will be important for this area to function efficiently and effectively. On the other hand, some of the solutions that go beyond the direct requirements of the Directive, which can be introduced during the first period, are also here. I'm about to say a few more words about them. The project, even though it is only an amendment, is still the subject of a very vivid interest of the wide range of participants in the procurement market. We got over $1,000. various types of comments to the project. A two-day agreement conference was held during which both the contracting party and the party to the contractors justified their comments. I think that much of the demands have been reflected in the next version of this project, which was addressed to the Committee. In general, the project also gathered positive evaluations in the Social Dialogue Council, except for the in-house procurement solution. Here the Social Dialogue Council opts for this solution not to be included in this amendment. On the other hand, the second important participant in the consultation process, also legally established, so to speak, i.e. the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission, has requested that the in-house solution be implemented to the full extent that the Directive provides for. The revision, as I said, is part of the implementation of the Responsible Development Plan for the formulation of a new smart purchasing policy. The amendment therefore provides for solutions to strengthen non-price criteria for the assessment of tenders: the cost of the life cycle of the contract as a criterion for assessing tenders, reducing administrative obligations in proceedings, innovation, increasing SME participation in the procurement market and applying employment contracts and social clauses. I will briefly present what falls within the different scopes as an example of solutions, starting with non-price criteria for the evaluation of offers. Here, above all, we assume in the project that we are increasing the importance of non-price criteria in the evaluation of offers. We know that this has been under discussion for several years and has already been the subject of changes to the law in the last term, which have, so to speak, been the subject of a legal situation in the direction, I will say on a daily basis, of discouraging the application of only price criteria. However, the effects, although improved in this respect, are still not satisfactory. That's why we've proposed a mechanism here so that the price criterion can have weight. a maximum of 60% if the subject-matter of the contract is not standardised and the contracting authority does not indicate the standards in the specification of the essential terms of the contract. In this case, the price criterion is to be that threshold, a maximum of 60%. On the other hand, if the contracting authority presents these quality standards, it shall describe the subject matter of the contract by means of them, then, in that case, that level 60% It won't apply. Then it can be up to 100% - if the subject-matter of the contract is defined in a precise manner by indicating those standards so that it is a certain minimum level, such a filter allowing tenders to be tendered. Although the rules currently do not prevent the contracting authority from making criteria in this way, unfortunately statistics show that some contracting authorities are sufficiently, I would say clever, that this non-price criterion is applied at a level of 12%. Thus, they are already implementing a provision saying that in such cases the price criterion cannot be 100%. That's where the 60% threshold comes from. as a criterion for assessing offers, which should contribute to increasing the use of non-price criteria, which is quite commonly indicated as one of the main needs and demands of the market above all. If the contracting authority fails to describe the subject matter of the contract through these standards, the tenderers shall compete to a significant extent, i.e. at least within the scope of those 40% , non-price elements, i.e. de facto the quality of their offers. So this is the realization of this formula: value for money. In addition, the project will also be able to take into account the characteristics of the tender, in particular the eligibility criterion and the experience of the persons designated for the performance of the contract or the production process criterion, i.e. use of a specific process of production or execution of works. The purpose of this is to ensure that the persons who are designated by the contractor to perform the contract actually comply with the standards set by the contracting authority and that possible replacement of those persons is possible with the consent of the contracting authority. I think that such a procedural or even organisational proposal in the project is an obligation to set up a team for contracts of over EUR 1 million, so that this supervision of the performance of the entire contract is from the preparation and award of the contract to the receipt of the contract. We hope that the involvement of the same people, because this de facto is the solution, will allow you to treat the order just as a holistic process, which is particularly important part of a high quality effect, i.e. the implementation of the project. This will, in our view, make greater use of non-price evaluation criteria, because the natural tendency of those who choose offers is to choose a rather safer offer without looking at this effect. Those who receive this often later complain that the wrong offer has been chosen, which is optimal. Therefore, we want this formula to work with these large orders. Finally, as regards the departure from the price criterion as the only criterion, it is also envisaged that contracting authorities may use the cost of the life cycle as an assessment criterion. At present, the price is a mandatory criterion, while the proposal is to directly allow the use of the cost of the product lifecycle instead of the price criterion, so that it takes into account the cost of the entire life cycle of the contract, i.e. not only the cost of the purchase, i.e. the price, but also the costs, I do not know, the use, repair, disposal, recycling, etc. Again, these solutions are intended to make it possible to depart from the price criterion as the main criterion for assessing the offer. When it comes to reducing red tape, it is also one of the most important, I would say, scopes in the directive, but also in solutions that go beyond. I think that the essence of these solutions is to reduce the number of obligations for contractors to submit documents or, in particular, by tenderers. Again, these solutions will be particularly relevant to larger orders. For example, in an open invitation to tender, the contracting authority will first be able to assess the tenders and only later to request documents from the tenderer whose tender it will assess at most. In tenders above the Union thresholds, the tender or request for admission to the proceedings will be accompanied by the so-called. a single European procurement document - a solution from the Directive - which will include a statement from the contractor that it meets the conditions for participation in the procedure and is not excluded. As a rule, it is only in case of doubt as to the status of the contractor and before the award of the contract that the contracting authority will be able to request, first of all, documents confirming what is in the statements, so that the full subject-matter documentation is only here. So it's kind of a reversal of this rule of collecting documents. The point is to use mostly statements until the choice is made. There is also a proposal to introduce relatively extensive, but also, above all, more flexible provisions for amending the contract. There'll be more scope for a change of contract. Such situations will probably work first and foremost when there is a need to extend a specific public task, which often makes it necessary to choose another contractor, and, of course, in the strict regime provided for by the Act, this additional necessary action could be carried out more smoothly by amending the contract. Promotion of innovation. As two of these main actions or proposals, I would, first of all, give the contracting authority the authority to apply the criterion for assessing tenders related to innovation and, secondly, to introduce a completely new procedure for the award of public contracts, i.e. Innovation partnerships. The partnership may cover further activities, from research and development, including the search for solutions and the submission of R &amp; D projects, prototyping to product development, provision of services or completion of works. In all these areas this will be possible, i.e. for example, the contracting authorities will be able to order even non-existent technologies. and combine in one procedure various stages of research and development and even implementation. An important area where we have also tried to go beyond the Directive is to increase the possibility of SMEs participating in contracts. For example, the project rules allow for a more flexible division of orders into smaller ones, for example. the obligation for the contracting authority to justify why the contract has not been divided into smaller parts, or e.g. The introduction of an upper cap on the company's income which may be required by the contracting authority, i.e. a maximum double of the value of the order, which, again known, automatically eliminates certain barriers for smaller companies. Abolishing pre-financing constraints - in all competitive modes this will already be possible and not only limited, as it is today, to European funds, but also to national spending. Finally, the answer to a very big problem, particularly indicated by local companies, i.e. strengthening the possibility for the contracting authority to request the personal execution of key parts of the contract, i.e. the use of references. Currently, although the contracting authority requests the personal execution of the contract, such a reservation is ineffective when the contractor refers to the resources of its subcontractors in order to demonstrate the resources needed to obtain the contract. In this way, companies operate to a large extent, which are de facto limited to the organisation of sub-contractor groups, and smaller, usually local companies, which actually employ employees and have equipment, most often act as sub-contractors. We also know where this margin is highest. The aim is therefore to change this practice also through changes in the law. Then the contracting authority will be able to enforce the contractor's performance, which will naturally promote local companies, if I may say so. Another change is also the introduction of the possibility of limiting the number of parts of the contract for which one contractor can apply, or the change which, in my opinion, also improves the situation of small and medium-sized companies, i.e. the obligation to publish annual procurement plans on the contracting parties, as this gives potential tenderers the opportunity to distribute their resources, prepare their offer in view of the tenders planned by the contracting authority or the contracting authority concerned. Of course, this also increases transparency. The next issue is employment agreement and social clauses. A very important aspect of this project, i.e. the obligation for contracting authorities to require the employment of persons or staff on the basis of a contract of employment, if the nature of the work meets the definition of employment relationship within the meaning of the Labour Code, i.e. the work is carried out at a specific place and time, under the direction of the employer. This obligation will apply to both contractors and subcontractors. The Employer will indicate those jobs that qualify for employment contracts so as not to go the other way, that I will say so that where the Labour Code does not require employment on the basis of employment relationships, the Employer is obliged or could demand. So this is a balanced solution, and this is not only a bow towards employees, because it is like the first obvious effect and effect, because they are the main beneficiaries of this solution, but it is also equal to the competitive position of companies that employ their employees in accordance with the requirements of labour law. And again the rules in force, also thanks to the changes of a year or two years ago, allow the law to impose such requirements, but looking at statistics, it does not look particularly optimistic, because only a few percent of the orderers put these requirements in employment. Hence the obligation, but the obligation limited to the labour law regime. Social clauses are a particularly important aspect, I would say here, directives. For example, the law will allow contracting authorities, when implementing the directive, to reserve contracts for sheltered work establishments or contractors with at least 30% persons employed are disadvantaged persons. This is raising... today's threshold is 50%. This will also increase the number of companies that will be able to participate in restricted tenders. I would also say, in this area, that the solution is also a specific regime for the award of public contracts for social services and other specific services. Here is an increase in the thresholds below which contracts will be published only at national level, and these are service contracts e.g. health, social or cultural, which is also natural, by directing them to entities fulfilling certain conditions set out in the Act, will be very important for local companies, which are then the natural ones... are in the first series to obtain these orders. And the so-called question. in-house contracts - which, I think I can say, during the process of public consultation aroused and aroused, because the process is not completed, most discussions, such lively ones - i.e. the issue of contracts awarded by the contracting authority to subordinate and controlled entities. The draft adopted by the Council of Ministers introduces these provisions into the Public Procurement Law or proposes the introduction of these provisions into the Public Procurement Law. These are, of course, based on the provisions of the Directive, which in turn constitute a codification of the existing case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The directive does not have a firm obligation to implement this solution, but there is no obligation to faithfully transfer these solutions to Polish law. The directives indicate a certain maximum level that can be implemented here. The government project is trying to balance the rations and demands of the contracting representatives on the one hand and the contractors on the other. That is why we are proposing provisions that will not be a simple transposition of the provisions of the Directives in this respect. First of all, the provisions on the in-house exception will not constitute an exemption from the application of the law, which the Directive allows, but will be included as a condition for the award of a contract from a free hand. This is not a semantic or minor difference, because this means that the award of these contracts will have to be carried out in a transparent manner, as well as with strict conditions of transparency. In contrast to total disabling, the free hand mode provides for e.g. an announcement of the intention to conclude a contract, so to whom, at what price I intend to award a contract, as well as the possibility to appeal against the choice of such a procedure by the contracting authority. In relation to the directive, we also propose, on a daily basis, to increase the possibility of outsourcing tasks without a tender. First of all, according to the project, the controlled entity, i.e. the municipal company will have to carry out at least 90%, not 80%, as permitted by the Directive, of its activities in favour of the controlling contracting entity, i.e. in order to obtain the contract without a tender, i.e. in a free-of-charge manner. the parent self-government unit. The project will make it possible to apply the in-house exception in cases where a public entity orders the execution of a contract to a subsidiary whose activities are in fact almost entirely focused on the service of the contracting authority. So once again, a bit of a routine: if you want to operate in a competitive market to a large extent, do not take advantage of this exception in-house, exception or de facto in-house benefits. We also propose that, as a change to the Directive, a ban on participation in these private capital entities, with the exception of public-private partnerships and employee shares. Thus, the solution restricts the participation of those entities that will benefit from this exception or benefits will limit such direct competition with private entrepreneurs on the market. On the other hand, as a result of this solution, public entities which, in turn, have often invested significant resources themselves in the equipment of their subordinates will also be able to manage these resources through these entities or through them, through this solution. So, as I said, the project aims to balance these two divergent, very divergent positions, so that I say, both the opponents of in-house procurement in order law and the supporters of the widest possible exception under the directives. The advantage of this solution in the amendment is that we will probably increase legal certainty, because this will prevent differences in interpretation, because today we also have quite a rich case law, especially the European Court, and some contracting authorities are also acting on the basis of this case law. At the same time - I will also mention this, because this was not foreseen in the original version of the project by the Minister of Development - the project was also supplemented by amendments to the Law on the maintenance of order and cleanliness in municipalities which also assume these changes, subjecting the management of waste to the general principles of Public Procurement Law, i.e. the rules on in-house procurement. Finally, may I mention only the extension of legal protection measures primarily to the selection of the tender and the description of the subject-matter of the contract in orders below the thresholds. That's not in the rules today, that's not an option. The second point is also to increase the certainty of public procurement law and the uniformity of its application. The President of the Public Procurement Office will issue an opinion interpreting the rules if there is an important legal issue or rules that raise serious interpretation doubts or create differences in application or case law. This will be interpreted by the President of the Office as such, which will be published on the website of the Public Procurement Office. Thank you for the opportunity to present the project, I ask you to take a positive approach to the project. Of course, we are declaring full availability here as regards the work of the committee or perhaps of the subcommittee, if this is set up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u341	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, is the first to come forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Law and Justice Club to present my position on the draft Public Procurement Law Act, print No 366. The draft law amending the law of 29 January 2004. The law of public procurement and certain other laws aims to implement directives of the European Parliament and of the Council into the Polish legal order. The most important changes made include: simplifying procurement procedures, which will benefit both contracting authorities and economic operators, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, by making better use of negotiations as a way of clarifying the terms of contracts with economic operators in order to obtain the service best suited to the needs of the contracting authority, and reducing formal obligations at the stage of applying for the award of contracts, further, promoting and realising non-economic public procurement objectives such as environmental protection, social integration or promoting innovation, ensuring better access to the market for small and medium-sized enterprises, introducing more flexible arrangements for modifying public procurement contracts, such as new conditions for amending the contract or termination of contracts, simplifying procedures for the award of social contracts and certain other services, e.g. legal, hotel, catering, cultural, health. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law was the subject of meetings of the Social Dialogue Council. The website of employers and employees of the Social Dialogue Council calls for a complete omission of internal procurement rules, so-called. in-house, in a procedated amendment. In view of divergent positions on in-house procurement, the Joint Government and Local Government Commission teams supported the introduction of the exclusion of in-house contracts, the project proposes that the so-called "in-house contracts' be excluded. In-house contracts were awarded in the form of a negotiated contract and the conditions themselves were modified in relation to the Directive in such a way that those who receive contracts without a tender would in principle not participate in competition in the open market. To conclude, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u343	Thank you very much. Maria Janyska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft in print No 366 is in the decisive part of the implementation of the obligation to implement the directives - so-called. a classic and so-called directive. the sectoral directive, which entered into force in 2014. The deadline for implementation is very short, compared to today's date of course, because it is 18 April this year. The work on these changes is therefore not subject to any discussion in so far as it is mandatory, and the Civic Platform Club obviously supports this work and is in favour of sending this proposal to the committee. We will probably be discussing tomorrow to set up a subcommittee that should examine this project efficiently and reliably. Of course, there will certainly be a broad discussion on specific substantive solutions, and here we are hoping for this possibility in spite of a short period of time, because it is an extremely important regulation. I'll just remind you that this is a project that in 20 articles on 122 pages... Including justification, impact assessment, consultation report, compliance table, etc. this is a package of 859 pages, so quite large material to redesign. A seemingly small number of articles obviously do not reflect a small amount of content, because in each of them there are several dozen more editorial units, and there are also articles that refer to changes in other laws, such as the laws on the national archival resource, on forests, on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities, on special economic zones, on highways, on maintaining order and cleanliness in municipalities, Code of Criminal Procedure, on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment, on liability for violation of public finances discipline, on principles of science financing, on revitalization. Plus, ladies and gentlemen, there are, of course, transitional provisions. I exchange this to make it clear how important, how extensive this change is and that, of course, Parliament will be ultimately responsible for the quality of this bill. Therefore, as I said, once again, we hope that this will be a very detailed discussion. We do have a summary summary, such a collective report, a summary of the consultation, but I lack some direct material here from the stakeholders who consulted it in the previous term, and we have worked together, and I hope that we will continue to cooperate fairly and reliably, because this was the cooperation in that term, based on the need to stress that. I hope that you will make these materials available so that we can also, as Members, prepare ourselves well for work in committee, so that we will know, for example, when we go to the committee meeting. which was required in the consultation by the representatives of the consultation parties, which was taken into account because the Minister said that some of these requests were taken into account and some were not. This is absolutely not about denying here already today from the point that something is wrong, that part was included, but of course we would like to have as much information as possible to work efficiently. The project entered the Sejm on 24 March, on Thursday the 21st, was directed to first reading, today it is happening, and we have, ladies and gentlemen, in fact a little more than 2 weeks to carry out the whole legislative process, so I stress once again the importance of this work. It is not enough, I also believe, that in this connection it may be necessary to consider whether what is not mandatory at the moment is not the result of the directives as mandatory for implementation, not to postpone, as the Minister said, for a subsequent analysis of the whole - it is a very good reference - the public procurement system, not only the law, because we also said in that term that what had been done earlier, the major amendment which entered into force in October 2014 was also an announcement of work on the whole public procurement system. We knew exactly that these directives were ahead of us, and that is why we in this House were in agreement with this decision and there was no discussion or divergence in this regard. I think what has just been introduced in the last major amendment - among others. It is about moving away from the price as the only criterion that could have previously been applied in the assessment, introducing into the social clauses the possibility of requiring the employment of workers from contractors to a contract of employment, of course, with the fulfilment of those code requirements, which the Minister said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Joint responsibility for sharing the potential that we have put in place, the valorisation of wages over 12 months, the definition of a abnormally low price, which was based on an analysis of the value of the contract throughout its lifetime - these provisions will be sufficient, including the Directive, pending the adoption of the revision of the whole system. We would then have a chance to work more closely and harder on these mandatory issues, because, for example, in-house, which the Minister mentioned here as well, there will certainly be a discussion. I also have a position here - there is no time, I will not present them... [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u345	There is no time, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u346	...and one, and the other, which are as if dissatisfied with this solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u347	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft law amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws, print No 366. First of all, as my honourable previous speaker has already pointed out here, I would like to stress that this project was in principle attached to the schedule of this meeting on Tuesday evening, so we can only be glad that we did not proceed on Wednesday morning, which is yesterday, because - as you have also pointed out here - the whole document has no more than 800 pages. On the other hand, with regard to its content and substance, it should also be stressed here that the printing project No 366 is the implementation of Directives 2014/25/EU and 2014/25/EU, which were adopted in February 2014 and thus more than 2 years ago. I understand that it is a tendency for the right lawyers to postpone everything at the end, later, i.e. the so-called. procrastination, but I do not know if it is a good principle in the case of law-making, or whether it is good that such a large, so important project regulating such a wide scope of the subject matter is basically processed within 2 weeks, because it is really enough for us to implement, because on 18 April the deadline for implementing these directives is passed. What's important? It is important, first of all, to move further away from this price criterion, which can be compared to some kind of cancer, which is going on in the Polish economy, a very bad phenomenon that causes many pathologies. This was also mentioned yesterday by the Prime Minister, Minister of Development Mateusz Morawiecki. It was precisely the erroneously acting Public Procurement Law that led to the fact that in Poland, although there were great road projects to be realized, as a result of their implementation with giants on a European scale or, even I would say, the world became some Western European companies, while Polish companies simply fell. That was the result. So that moving away from this lower price criterion is certainly a good direction, it is worth supporting. It is also worth mentioning, however, that within the framework of the previous version of the Public Procurement Law, where the price criterion was the only decisive criterion for the choice of the tenderer, under which, so to speak, we built the most expensive, if not one of the most expensive, road in the world, i.e. road S8 in Warsaw, whose cost is estimated by various sources at up to PLN 200 million per km. This is absurd. So that it is fortunate that the adoption of this amendment is about to bring about a certain time of remembrance. It is only a pity that this recollection comes from the European Union, and it is not the result of our Sejm's work. On the other hand, as regards the issue of specific provisions, there are many positive points in this bill. You can't replace them here because I only have five minutes. First of all, we pay attention to the issue of social clauses, the issue of better engagement, the extension of the circle of players who use the so-called resources. disadvantaged persons. We will certainly pay attention to this so that it is not overlooked in any way. We will also pay attention to the issue and the problem of the in-house issue that all the previous speakers have actually mentioned. Because on the one hand it is said that this law, the new Public Procurement Law, is intended to provide some kind of impetus for Polish entrepreneurs, especially Polish small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. For example, it says: Attention to the issue of reducing formal obligations. According to the impact assessment of the regulation, this project, the project designer noted that the contractors were obliged to lose in principle 4 million man-hours - I do not know whether annually or in general - on issues related to the obligation to complete all these formal cases concerning participation in the public contract. On the other hand, this unfortunate in-house is introduced, which causes in practice... It is simply a nail to the coffin for Polish entrepreneurs. Yesterday before the Sejm there was a protest of entrepreneurs from the waste management industry. I've been dating these entrepreneurs. They said straight: these records make us really lose the point of being. If municipal companies, municipal companies, will be able to take over on the basis of tenders, I apologise, not tenders, but free-of-hand contracts, how will the operation of these companies be possible? I mean, they're gonna lose the primary source of their livelihood. What is important is also to stress: the Social Dialogue Council has spoken negatively about the in-house issue, while the whole law has spoken in a positive way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Similarly to this law, the Kukiz Club speaks15, and therefore we recommend that it be referred to a committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u349	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! One of the main objectives of the directives that have been implemented, as has already been said, is to increase the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement. This is a good way, because it can definitely improve competitiveness among public procurement contractors, and thus improve the quality of the services provided, the quality of the orders carried out in the framework of public procurement, and we know that there are problems with this in Poland. In this context, the Directive points to the need to divide large public procurement into smaller parts. It's probably the right way, but it's not the only one that can be chosen here. The European Union wishes to increase the participation of SMEs in the public procurement sector due to their potential, visible in the context of job creation, economic growth and the value of these actors for innovation. According to the Polish amendment, the improvement of the position of both the contracting authority and the SME sector outside the division of smaller parts is to bring, as we read: firstly, the simplification of public procurement procedures - these are a number of solutions which are directionally good in our assessment - secondly, the promotion and real use of non-economic public procurement objectives. To put it simply, it is to be limited to a fairly highly favored criterion of the lowest price so far. It is intended to be limited to elements such as environmental protection, social inclusion, employment, continuity and quality of services, promotion of innovation. These changes are certainly expected by the market, but very risky and here the ministry must bear in mind all the advantages, disadvantages and risks that this change may carry along. Thirdly, this is to be influenced by the introduction of more flexible solutions for the modification of contracts. So far, contracts concluded on this type of benefit have been difficult to change, and it has been impossible, in the same way with regard to the termination of such contracts. It is only necessary to ensure that this provision is not used for key elements of the contract which decide on its outcome, to ensure that they are not subsequently renegotiated in some strange way. This also gives rise to risks, so it is necessary to keep this law loose, but above all it is also safer. The next amendment is an increase in the quota threshold for which there is an obligation to allocate tasks by means of invitations to tender. The Act provides for the possibility to order public services to municipal companies without tenders, as already mentioned by my previous speakers. And this element is probably the most controversial, the most social resistance. This could lead in some areas to serious problems for private companies that were active in this segment. Here it is certainly worth to take into account all the voices and comments, the positions of those who have worked so far in the given segment. The problem is that, in our opinion, the proposed changes are far from sufficient, especially if you look at the problems with tenders in the construction industry. In our view, these changes should be more and we welcome the announcement that the work, after the adoption of this directive, will also continue. Today in this sector, too often cards are handed out by companies that do not really take personal responsibility for the execution of signed contracts. They are often companies with foreign capital, which in Poland have one office, often rented, employing several, up to dozens of administrative employees, companies without assets, aimed at profit by squeezing the seventh sweats from Polish subcontractors, from Polish small and medium-sized enterprises. These companies play from the position of force, and as a result they often lead Polish companies to financial problems. Such cases on the market, and during the bessy, and during the hossy, we have no doubt, I think they need not be cited here. The market must probably minimise the participation of such companies, but it must also significantly improve the liquidity of contracts so that subcontractors do not remain at the mercy of general clearing contractors, especially at the end of contract deadlines. That should definitely be taken into account. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The whole remodeling is needed. We have some proposals and we will be happy to join the committee or subcommittee that will be set up. It is only a short period of time that is actually dead for work, because theoretical changes must be transferred to practice, and after 18 April all contracts should be dealt with on the basis of the implementing directive. It would be good not to implement such important changes in Poland at such a rapid pace, but to draw lessons from it for the future and leave some more time to work in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u351	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to speak about the Public Procurement Act, its amendment. I would like to remind you that such a revolutionary change, as regards the Public Procurement Act, took place in the previous term. There are many changes that have been made here today. You may not know, but, for example, the lowest price, the question of subcontracting, etc., these things have already been eliminated and today we are talking about completely different issues, I think it is also very important, because the Public Procurement Act is a very important law. I share the view here that 859 pages, some hundred, I think, Minister, of the comments that were there, we were probably not able to all read to the end, read to them. And they certainly contain something in themselves, some element, because it is intended to serve the good functioning of our economy, especially those who order services, and those who later perform these services, because it involves the security of these companies, as well as the speed of making investments. It's been a long time. We said that the dragging process of the contractor's emergence made investments increasingly expensive. We're dealing with some of the unfinished ones today. This improvement of the Public Procurement Law is very important, important and the elements that appear here are certainly meant to serve this purpose. The predecessors have already talked about this very much here. Lowest price case, down to 60% As one of the conditions, he will in some sense improve the bill. On the other hand, much attention has been paid to the matter of in-house, i.e. internal performance, for itself, services. I think it's important, too, and it's very important to take a closer look at it and analyze pros and cons, because I'm sure those voices are and they get to us. This problem has been functioning for a long time, even when - here we can give an example of a garbage bill - it was introduced. The municipalities could not provide services for themselves, and it would seem that local patriotism and the search for performance should be a priority as closely as possible. At the moment, even this ruling coalition also very often emphasizes local patriotism and the fact that it should be as close as possible. Because there were such cases that international, foreign companies, which had great potential, won the tender and - suppose - provided these services, while the local company, which even bought the equipment, prepared for this, in the form of a municipal company, could not carry out it because it was losing the tender. This is why we need to approach this very flexibly and with great balance. We will want to work - as long as there are conditions, because we have little time - on this bill to improve these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u353	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. If I don't see any more people who want to come up with a question, I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time to ask you a question for two minutes. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u354	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question will be about that part of the bill that talks about dividing the order into parts. As we know, the whole law is mainly adopted because this is what the EU Directives, the Classical Directive and the Sectoral Directive require. As usual, it is not the desire to help entrepreneurs, small or medium, it is not the patriotic motives that direct the applicants, it is the desire to comply with the standards and rules imposed by Leviathan. But even if this European Leviathan imposes rules on us that seem quite interesting, this is where I meet with such curiosity. The directive states that Member States are authorised to introduce an obligation to divide the contract into parts. Here the applicant provides for freedom of choice as to whether it will be divided into parts or whether it will be fully processed as regards public procurement. And the question is: What has caused you to give freedom in this particular case, which is why you are really preventing in many cases the application of this directive, which in this very narrow way would be beneficial, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises? And my second question: Wouldn't it be better to simply implement this directive in its entirety and to allow certain contracts to be divided into parts so that different entities - not just one entity and then subcontractors - would not, depending on what it is, only different entities - especially small and medium-sized ones - can share and do so together? This would enable small local actors to benefit more from public procurement. And you don't know what it's gonna be like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u355	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski. [[What about me, Marshal?]] Excuse me, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The value of public procurement already reaches almost PLN 160 billion. We do not hide - and we should do our best to ensure - that these small and medium-sized enterprises should be as involved as possible in these investments, in the performance of the tasks carried out under the Public Procurement Act. This bill, as the Minister says, is supposed to give a lot to make it so. I wanted to ask the Minister in particular: What are the concrete solutions to this? After all, there are almost 1800 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises in Poland. And the second question I've been holding up all the time. In your project, you want to oblige the contracting authorities in their entirety to require contractors to employ their employees who will perform these tasks on the basis of a contract of employment. In our previous term of office, we have put in place mechanisms that allow such... I wanted to ask the Minister how they relate to this record, both so-called. contractors, as well as contracting. The subject was certainly raised during this consultation. Second theme. In this law, you raise this threshold, the price criterion, to 60%. Where does it come from? Where did you get 60, 50 or 70... I understand that these values or percentages are clearly due to some specific calculations and assumptions. I would ask you very much to quote it from the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u357	Thank you. And this time I ask Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u358	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! I have a question for the Minister. Like you, Minister, you imagine in practice the operation of public, municipal, municipal companies, apart from the so-called. In-house? Because if such a company were to be set up for life... Earlier, she was to be excluded from the public procurement regime at all, now it is included, but on the basis of the award of the contract from a free hand. So how do you think these companies operate in such a hypothetical situation when the municipality doesn't give the contract to such a company? What then? Such a company essentially loses its existence when it is deprived of its ability to operate in the free competition market. On the other hand, looking at: How do you imagine the functioning of those private companies that carry out tasks today, e.g. in the field of waste handling, city purification, but also construction, for public entities? Are these entities... What, are private companies supposed to wait for the moment when the contracting authority decides not to exercise this right of choice from a given tenderer, which will in principle be its own company? Well, then he's arguing with himself. So that I ask you very much to answer the question of how you imagine it in practice. By taking advantage of the time I have left, I wanted to ask whether it is true that the transfer of some of the tasks to those public companies whose owners will be municipalities or districts will result in lower prices. Because from what the entrepreneurs representing the waste management industry said yesterday... They said that the transfer of waste disposal services to the public domain resulted in a multiple increase in the price of waste disposal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the price that citizens pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u359	Thank you, sir. And I ask that Mrs Mirosława Nykiel speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u360	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is related to this ceiling, with the introduction of this 60% cap as a price criterion. What is the point, Minister, that you have set a 60% ceiling and is that adequate for the intended purpose? The second question concerns the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. I will say that I am very happy with this solution because I have been trying for many years to prefer small and medium-sized enterprises in this public cake. But on the basis of what do you say that the solutions that have been adopted in these regulations will significantly increase participation in this public cake, which is public procurement, this sector of small and medium-sized enterprises? I kindly ask you to present some analyses, calculations and answer these questions in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u361	Thank you. Mr Piotr Polak will be the last to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I listened attentively to your speech when you presented the bill, a long speech, and I regret that it was only in the final part that the Minister referred to how important - although I think that all solutions are important - solutions, orders from a free hand, so-called. in-house. High Izbo! The law on maintaining order and cleanliness in the municipalities of the previous term has caused a lot of damage to local governments, and especially - as one of my previous speakers said - ordinary people who pay several times higher fees for this, precisely because in-house did not apply in this law. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the proposals that are contained in this law - perhaps specifically the subject of an article. 67 - In-house related concerns that local government officials are still talking about, in the area of waste management, where there have been price conspiracies, where from year to year by 50% there has been an increase in tender fees, in which only one tenderer has always participated, and the local authorities have not been able to convince others that they - other companies - would like to participate in these tenders. Will these records, which are in this Act, secure the interests of local governments and residents of Polish municipalities? And in view of the fact that probably a year or two ago we were updating the Local Government Act, where local governments, especially these small rural communities, have the possibility to join and perform certain tasks together, will they be able to use in-house together, so to speak, for a few smaller local government units? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this law consistent with the Local Government Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u363	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Minister Mariusz Haladyj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to answer your questions briefly. Since some of the issues raised in the speeches followed in the questions, maybe I will start with what Mrs Janyska said. As regards the summary of the comments of the social partners, they are concluded, were sent by the Council of Ministers and attached to the project. In addition, we will send, of course, if necessary, a link to the page on which the scanned text of the comments is provided. No problem, we can do it. The Member said to put off what is not mandatory. However, we have considered that some solutions are necessary and need to go beyond the directive precisely to increase the economic impact of procurement. In my opinion, we have really limited ourselves to the minimum of solutions that go beyond the directive, but in general they are solutions that are intended to promote the objectives that I said at the beginning, because the solutions that work today are based on legislation that have been changed in the right direction, but practice has shown that these solutions are insufficient. That's why I talked about these few things in my speech. There are also solutions that go beyond the Directive in order to strengthen the solutions adopted, such as those relating to non-price criteria. Mr Grabowski said - and it also appeared later - that the project goes to the Sejm late. We agree that late, too, we have no comfort by presenting this project 3 weeks before the deadline for implementation, but the Council of Ministers faced such a dilemma in December: either to proceed over the new Public Procurement Law project, which was prepared by the previous President of the Public Procurement Office, or to get tense, in common, and prepare a small one - although it is a little euphemistically said: small - amendment. We thought that proceding the new Public Procurement Law just a month or two months before the revision of this element of novelty introduced into the law is a much worse solution than introducing an amendment which, although extensive, is much thinner, so to speak, than the new Public Procurement Law, which in addition formulated new legal institutions, which are not in the current legislation, in the current practice, and so it would be much more difficult to adapt to the new rules and would take much more time. That is why such a decision was taken, after listening also to the voices of entrepreneurs above all, who also very strongly opt for the amendment. And one more thing. It is precisely the non-price criteria that we propose, which is not the solution carried over from the directive, that is the addition, so to speak, in a draft, from the government, not carried out from the directive. Mrs Hennig-Kloska raised the question that non-price criteria are risky. It seems that the state that it is today is a much worse condition when the price criterion actually dominates. The Members also gave examples of poor practices when the price criterion was decisive in the choice of the tenderer and the cost of the investment was not at all at the expense of the least. The issue of resource use. The Member has spent a lot of time on this, but it is precisely the restrictions on the use of references - a very big change, in my opinion, in this project - that they have this phenomenon, so strongly pointed out by entrepreneurs, to counteract. Mr Kasprzak pointed out a number of comments. Yes, but I would say that, despite the enormous pace in preparing the amendment of this law, we have tried very carefully, even tediously to consult these solutions. A thousand comments were made and we really looked at all these comments together with those who reported them. Some of the attention was consistent, which is why we probably wouldn't have picked up that thousand. The Member also spoke about today's solutions. Yes, they are, but they need to be strengthened by another, so to speak, an aspect of how they can function, because what if we have the option of requiring employment for a contract, since 3% of the contracting parties use this solution. Mr Wójcikowski spoke about the division into parts and asked why we did not move this solution from the directive. We've been thinking about it. Originally, we wanted to introduce a much tougher, sharper solution than the proposed one, which is the obligation to justify why the order was not split, but we came to the conclusion that at the level of the law - where it cannot be written down into very detailed chords or to some decimal place at the same level as the law allows - it is not possible to introduce this division in such a universal way that it is appropriate for all sectors, because there will always be a question whether there will be enough or less division in a given sector. If we introduce only parts, the two parts will not meet the requirement either, and they will all be divided into two parts and not into more, because so the law, in quotes, suggests: how much and for what parts. Hence, we have adopted a different strategy, i.e. to introduce here this obligation to justify why I did not split the order, but to approach it in this time regime, which will be calmer, when preparing the new Public Procurement Law, there to think about it and for example. by even giving delegations to issue regulations, I do not know, for the construction sector, for manufacturers of metal products, to match these solutions related to division. Mr Gadowski asked for solutions for SMEs. They are characteristic, I tried to present them in my speech. There is no Member, so maybe I will not repeat it in detail, but it is relatively the most solutions for this sector of companies, except those required by the Directive. The contract of employment - as is the case with contracting representatives and contractors. Positively - the Social Dialogue Council, i.e. the employers' side and the workers' side, unanimously recommended to introduce an obligation to require employment for a contract of employment, under the Labour Code regime. Some concerns were raised by local authorities such as architects or architects. IT programmers, but we reassured that this is not a solution profiled for such professions - the developer or architect does not work under the supervision of the employer or in a specific place and time. If a person fails to meet these conditions, the employment requirement for an employment contract will not be imposed. On the other hand, it is about eliminating some undesirable phenomena, because as self-employed people they are treated for example. cleaning or security personnel. It is difficult to say that these are entrepreneurs, these people do typical work in the Labour Code regime. These professions, which are not subject to this regime, will not have to worry about it, because that is what is narrowed down to this issue. 60% Where's that threshold coming from? That was also Mrs Nykiel and Mr Gadowski's question. This is a sample... we found that this must be an important part of this level, so to speak, the application of this solution, which is why there is more than half, which is a non-price criterion below half, and the price criterion could be up to 60%, so that the price could be a significant criterion, but not as dominant as today. That's 60%. , not e.g. 40% As we initially thought as the Ministry of Development, it is also so that the offers are not very expensive. We carried out various simulations in the Ministry of Labour, so we know that this level allows us to best balance this price-to-price ratio, and let's remember that this is the maximum level, not the hard one. Mr Grabowski asked about companies, in-house contracts and in-house issues. How can companies, I understand, set up by local governments, manage if they don't get orders? This is also subject, I think, to a rational economy - to the management of certain self-government units or other public entities, i.e. we create these units if we know from an overview of the situation in our own entity that it is cost-effective to create such an entity. It's not like we're creating an entity just in case, and then we're worried about how to make it work. So I'm assuming there's some rationality here, and I'm assuming there's not going to be 100%. the contracting authorities formed companies under the in-house, because not all will actually be able to provide enough oxygen for the operation of these companies. And how are private companies gonna handle it? This is undoubtedly a problem that has been discussed, which will certainly be discussed in committee. As I said, we have not proposed changes in the original draft, but, as you have said, there are various people, different Members or different clubs here as well. different positions, and so to speak, are on two radically different sides. That's why, like I said, it's an attempt to balance these interests. At the same time, we assume that not all of the ordering parties on the first day after the entry into force of the Act will throw themselves into a solution in the form of in-house orders. Besides, I talked to the Vice President of Warsaw, who also presented this position, and already especially smaller municipalities will probably not have such companies. Mrs Nykiel has asked about these solutions for SMEs whether and how they will help. Since you wanted a written reply, I will not really be taking your time here anymore. We will prepare such an answer for you in writing. Mr Grabowski asked if there would be higher prices as a result of this solution, it is about in-house. Here we have this situation - as a result of this, as I said, a rather turbulent consultation process, the local government party presented data which show that the lack of in-house use increases prices and the side of entrepreneurs presented reverse simulations. So it's hard to actually even judge who's right, because both sides looked quite crediblely given to us. Mr Polak also asked about waste management. As I said in my speech, waste management will be subject to in-house exceptions and will be able to benefit from such solutions together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u365	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws contained in print No 366 to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, on the basis of Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Marshals of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 26 April 2016. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and some other laws (prints No 359 and 375). I ask Mr Sylvester Tulayev to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u366	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present, I have the great honour of presenting a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and some other laws, print No 359. On 21 March 2016, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission considered this draft law at its meeting on 30 March 2016. The Senate examined the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws at its meeting on 17 March 2016 and adopted 41 amendments to it. 36 amendments are of a legislative, editorial nature, clarifying the content of the law adopted. Two amendments were proposed by the Ministry of Finance. One amendment, i.e. Amendment 1, following a letter from the General Data Protection Officer addressed to the President of the Senate Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, in which the letter calls for an enumerative determination of the categories of personal data to be processed for the purposes of contact data. The two Senate amendments, Amendment 7 and Amendment 8, aim to reduce the amount of fines proposed in the Act. In view of the fact that voting will take place in a moment, I would not like to extend and present in detail all these amendments, in particular Amendments 7 and 8. I encourage you to read the print number 359. All the Senate amendments are discussed in detail there. I would like to stress that the Committee on Public Finance recommends the adoption of all 41 amendments of the Senate and, at the same time, calls for amendments 17 and 26 to be voted together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u367	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. And again, please take the floor of Mr Sylvester Tulayev on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u368	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws, print No 359. I would like to stress in one sentence that the act is intended to implement European Union law. The Act deals with the creation of a legal framework governing internal and external supervision and the functioning of alternative investment fund managers to monitor and monitor the risks that alternative investment fund managers may generate for financial stability and investors and counterparties as well as for other participants. As I said, most of these amendments are legislative in nature, they are editorial in nature, ordering certain issues. As Law and Justice, as Parliamentary Club, we will vote in favour of all Senate amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u369	Thank you, sir. And I would ask Mrs Zofia Czernow to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club in relation to the Senate resolution of 17 March 2016 on the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws. The Senate, after considering the bill passed by the Sejm, brought it in, introduced it into the text 41 amendments. The vast majority of amendments are legislative in nature, clarifying provisions on e.g. the definition of an alternative investment company, standardizes terminology, ensures better consistency of the rules. As such, they do not raise objections. Amendment 1, which adds a definition of the concept of contact data at the request of GIODO, should also be accepted, specifying the categories of personal data contained in that concept. In Amendment 7. The Senate proposes to reduce the maximum amount of financial penalties that the Financial Supervision Commission can impose on the association of investment funds, the management company and the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. We agree with the Senate's argument that there are disproportionately high maximum penalties to the size of the national open investment fund market. This was also our position during the discussions in the Committee on Public Finance and in the plenary room. In Amendment 8. The Senate has consistently reduced sanctions for the activities of alternative investment funds. This is intended to prevent a possible drain from the investment funds industry of high-end specialists. At the same time, this is a symmetrical solution to the aforementioned monetary penalty system applicable to open investment funds. At the same time, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club expresses its negative attitude towards amendments 6, 16, 33, 37 and 41. We share the view of the Legislative Office of the Sejm about the unnecessary introduction of these amendments, and even, as in the case of Amendment 6, the introduction of amendments may give rise to interpretation doubts. In conclusion, the parliamentary club has a positive opinion on the 36 amendments of the Senate, while the 5 amendments are negative, I will repeat: 6, 16, 33, 37 and 41. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u371	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Wójcikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present my position on amendments to the report of the Senate Senate on the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws, print No 359. With regard to our position on these amendments, we are basically in favour of rejecting 5 amendments, i.e. Amendments 6, 16, 33, 37 and 41 - that is our recommendation to the members of the club - while the other amendments are able to accept and we have no major objections to them. I think this is a similar position to what most clubs present. The amendments for which we are rejecting are, in general, unnecessary in our view and rewrite some of the issues. On the other hand, Amendment 6 raises some controversy, and I think that we should nevertheless be in favour of rejecting it. That's all I had to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u373	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Pudłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u374	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It returns to our session of the Sejm amending the Act on Investment Funds and Public Offering. As we have heard, the Finance Committee has voted in favour of the 41 amendments tabled by the Senate. The Senate amendments are mainly editorial, legislative and more precise, e.g. the concept of contact data, and harmonising the terminology of the law. We also believe that the amendments tabled regarding the maximum fines that may be imposed on investment fund associations are reasonable. However, as for all of our work on this law, it must be noted that the amendment is in principle limited to the implementation of EU directives. It regulates the functioning of the TFI capital market, supervision and sanctions. The changes are also intended to improve transparency of investment, reporting and auditing, increase the security of investors and counterparties in investment funds, but also, unfortunately, which goes hand in hand, increase bureaucracy and thus the cost of operating investment funds in Poland and investment in general. I'll say it again. : the draft law on amending the Act on Investment Funds and some other laws was a chance to create attractive conditions for investment funds in Poland. It could be the basis for a new competitive formula to invest in innovative ideas in our country. Unfortunately, as has often been the case lately, there has been a lack of imagination, desire, and at the end of time. The proposed rules will implement in Polish law in principle only EU regulations, and could at the same time increase its attractiveness. The Modern Parliamentary Club Richard Petru agrees with the need to implement the directives of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, but opposes not taking advantage of the opportunity to create better investment conditions in our country. The effect of the change should be to stimulate alternative sources of funding for banks, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, to expand investment offer and to stimulate competition in the domestic capital market and thus to influence the innovation of the Polish economy. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Despite this, the Modern Richard Petru Posel Club will vote in favour of the proposed project and the amendments proposed by the Senate, but we do it out of concern, with the need to adapt our law, not the real delight in the final project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u375	Thank you, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would like to ask the High House to allow one more post to be given on behalf of the club at this point. In this case, I would ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on Investment Funds and some other laws, prints No 359 and 375. Resolution of the Senate of March 17th this year. There are 41 amendments in this case. Most of them, because as many as 36 amendments, are legislative and precise. The first amendment concerns the protection of personal data, clarifies and gives a definition of contact data. Two amendments - Amendment 7 and Amendment 8 - significantly reduce the financial penalties that the Commission will be able to impose on the association of investment funds, the management company, the member of the management board and the supervisory board of the company or company, the depositary and the entity entrusted with the performance of the activities under the agreement in connection with non-compliance with the rules on the activities carried out for investment funds. The position of the Senate, completely correct, reduces the rates of penalties, because their level was inadequate to the size and scope of the Polish investment fund associations. Four amendments, with numbers 6, 16, 33 and 41, were considered unnecessary amendments by the Legislative Office of the Sejm which did not correct the laws, and even the wording of them raises doubts of interpretation. We share this view and we will therefore reject these four unnecessary amendments, supporting all the others. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u377	Thank you very much, Member. Since none of the ladies and gentlemen have joined the questions, the question is whether the rapporteur wants to speak at this point. I don't see your MP. In that case, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. High Izbo! I'm calling a two-minute break. After the break, we'll join the voting block. Thank you kindly. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 minutes 01 hours 18 min 14]] I'm reopening the session. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted an additional report on the government proposal for a law on the prevention of sexual crime. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the third reading of this project. The Commission for the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry submitted a report on the draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I hope you can all hear me. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: No.]] No? Excuse me, my fellow Members say they can't hear me speak. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 363-A. The formal proposal is made by Mr Killian Munyama, the Civic Platform Club. [[Killion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u378	Mr. Marshal! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] High Izbo! Prime Minister! I would like to make a formal request to the Marshal for a break and for the convent of the Senior Convention to instruct Prime Minister Witold Waszczykowski that we are living in the 21st century... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...and racist statements cannot be present in the language of the Foreign Minister of any State. These words ridicule Poland in the international arena. [[Sikorski!]] Poland was and is a tolerant country. [[Applause]] Don't change it under the cover of a good change. [[Applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Sikorski! Sikorski! Sikorski!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u379	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a formal proposal. I would ask you to make a statement at the end of today, because unfortunately I cannot treat it as a formal proposal. [[Room voice: Bravo, Killion!]] We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Robert Telus to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! At the time of the second reading, 53 amendments were tabled to this law. At its meeting, the Commission declared 13 to support the High House and rejected the rest. The Commission is asking for the approval of the law, which farmers are waiting for, which Polish land is waiting for. [[Yeah, they're waiting.]] [[Learn.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u381	There you go. Of course, it's printing number 363. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. Amendment 10 was withdrawn by the applicants. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 2 (2) 1 point 1 applicants propose to indicate in addition other exemptions to which the provision to suspend the sale of immovable property and parts thereof shall not apply. The adoption of this proposal will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 216, against - 228, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the first amendment to Article. 2 (2) 1 point 1 applicants propose to indicate in addition other exemptions to which the provision to suspend the sale of immovable property and parts thereof shall not apply. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz club15. Time - 1 minute. Is that enough for you? That's enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The amendment that we are now about to vote on, which was rejected by the committee, is an amendment that really extends the definition of this land, which could be given for development purposes, whether it is industrial or generally different service centres. I do not understand why you are even so good with regard to the development of cities, local governments reject amendments. Because the committee has actually accepted only amendments to the Law and Justice, even though in this Chamber we have heard promises of a completely different approach to the matter. Tell me: What interferes with the Law and Justice development of cities and the development of municipalities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u383	I would ask you and all of you to be more specific to whom the question is addressed, because the rapporteur is Mr Robert Telus, and Minister Zbigniew Babalski may act on behalf of the government. Yes, both gentlemen are law and justice, but one represents committee and the other represents government. No one's checking in. Then I'll ask Mrs. Dorota Sunday from the Platform Club to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! That's exactly what my predecessor was talking about. These are minor changes, these are two words. They show how pluralism prevails in relation to the opposition's amendments. It is only about adding non-agricultural goals, i.e. adding services and trade. It doesn't matter. It's just an extension and definition. This amendment was rejected. My question is addressed to Minister Babalski: Was it such a difficulty to add two words in detail only and only that trade, shopping centres and services will be excluded? Minister Babalski, I would very much ask for your answer: Why couldn't these two words be there as an amendment to the opposition, but all the amendments had to be amendments to the governing coalition? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u385	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[The Minister won't answer me?]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: I will answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u386	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'll join the voice you heard here. I wonder, Minister, that recently, two days ago, you spoke out of this bleacher and resented that, as we accuse the Minister, he was not open to discussion and that the project was not to be improved. We have therefore bowed down to the Minister during the work of the committee and tabled many amendments as an opposition. And what is the effect, Minister? Not a single amendment of the opposition was accepted for 53 amendments. Do you understand the cohabitation of a project that is so important to the Polish society? Tell me, Minister: Why aren't you even able to accept the stupidest amendment? The dumbest amendment... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[The voice from the room: the stupidest!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Golden lips.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u387	Thank you very much. You'd like to speak, wouldn't you? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: I would like to reply.]] Answer me, okay. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Agriculture Zbigniew Babalski, actually Deputy Minister of Agriculture. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u388	Deputy Minister, marshal. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I will not comment on the words of my previous speaker, but I will try to answer, however I call this amendment, because my colleague called it himself. According to our position, art. 2 (2) 1 point (1) (a) c ultimately determines which investments, in which areas this law will not operate. There are also these two entities you are talking about. Read the lithium. c. In particular, there is talk about technological parks, industrial parks - attention - business and logistics centres, warehouses, transport investments, housing, sports and recreational facilities. In this definition, the two entities that you indicated are certainly present. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u389	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 217 Members voted against - 232, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second minority proposal to Article. 2 (2) 1 point 2 applicants propose that the provision to suspend the sale of immovable property should also not apply to immovable property situated within the limits of business activity zones. The question is raised by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u390	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is another small amendment of this kind, which would cost nothing to the Polish village and would cost nothing to the ministers, which is that in addition to special economic zones, agricultural land could also be sold in urban areas of economic activity. Today, a law was withdrawn from first reading to support the development of investments in urban areas, which are of an agricultural nature. In the explanatory memorandum, you were very clear that you wanted to support the development of investments also in such lands in Poland, and the failure to accept this amendment really contradicts that. So the key question is: What are your intentions in this matter at last? Do you want to, or do you not want to support the development of investment in cities, because this amendment serves this purpose? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u391	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 182 voted against 266, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second amendment to the article. 2 (2) 1 point 4 applicants propose that the provision to suspend the sale of real estate should not apply to agricultural real estate with an area of up to 5 ha. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The questions have been raised by Members. Mr Marek Sawicki, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In your project you introduce a five-year ban on the sale of land to Polish farmers. You think state property is higher than private property. You don't believe Polish farmers. I ask: Why do you not want to accept that land, land, which is generally a remnant of the State Fund of Earth, exclude from this ban, however, that farmers, especially in south-eastern Poland, eastern Poland, where the fragmentation of farms is very large, where these parcels after the State Fund of Earth is still much? Why stop the sale of this land when the agency has free capacity, the officials will not be able to sell these areas, so they will be able to actually sell the land after the state fund to increase their family holdings? What's with the stubbornness? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u393	Thank you. Mr Artur Dunin, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! I'm devastated by the fact that once again, the Minister, speaking of coming out to meet... [[And you're smiling.]] ...he'll listen to the opposition, he won't listen to the opposition again. The amendment that we will be voting on right now will allow us to sell the land to 5 ha. Minister, it's worth the effort, and it's worth the effort. Polish farmers are waiting for this. Why do you treat Polish farmers badly, badly, unjustly and do not let Polish farmers grow Polish land? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u395	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 184 voted against - 265, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 2 (2) 1 The applicants propose that the provision to suspend the sale of real estate should not apply to agricultural property for which the owners or their heirs have applied to purchase. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mr Bartosz Jóźwiak, Kukiz Club15. [[Joswiek.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment is very close to me as Chairman of the Group for Foreign Affairs. regulation of ownership. I, from this tribune, have often appealed to the Minister, the Member of the applicant, to lean on those people who have been victimized by the so-called. Decree on agricultural reform of PKWN. This amendment was supposed to leave them the opportunity, yet any hope that they would somehow be able to recover their assets, even if only in part, to compensate for it. By rejecting this amendment, you close the last door of hope for them. Tell me, actually, Minister, Mr. Reporting Officer, how you will look these people in the eye. Do you really think that the decree on agricultural reform of PKWN should continue to apply and was good for Polish society? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u397	Please. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's the question of arguments. What arguments are there that from this 5-year period of cessation of sales from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury should not exclude those landowners whom history has wronged? This would be a small, but noticeable gesture to this environment, which rightly counts for redress. It would be a gesture, not just sticking to the ethos of the Earth environment. Minister, I am asking for an answer, because I am asking through respect for this environment, which - it seems - is widely shared in this House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u399	Please. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u400	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! I assure you that this amendment is more serious. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, you talk a lot about historical politics, about people who gave their lives for free Poland. Speaking to you comes very easily, building monuments, showing up at celebrations, cutting ribbons at exhibitions, but how does it come to make one small gesture towards those people who actually suffered very much as a result of the harm caused by the Nazis, by the Communists, you do nothing. I am wondering very much, and I am asking the Minister who wanted this amendment not to be accepted... [[PSL.]] ...when the Members of the Law and Justice of this House also called for this amendment to be adopted. Therefore, you are acting at your own disadvantage against the views of your fellow Members. That is not enough, you are largely acting against your own electorate, who needs to be made clear: in the next election, do not vote for cheaters. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u401	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 202 Members voted against - 238 and 6 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 2 (2) 1 The applicants propose that the provision to suspend the sale of real estate should not apply to agricultural real estate intended for the enlargement of a family holding operated by an individual farmer. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This amendment is fundamental not only for this project, but also for land trading in Poland, it is also fundamental for the development of Polish agriculture. This law prohibits Polish farmers from buying land from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury for 5 years, for at least 5 years. You do not allow these farms to acquire this land, even though this land is often located just next door, behind copper, at the border, even though this land is needed for this farm to be more efficient, so that it has a feeding base for animals that are bred in this farm, in order to have Polish ownership in these areas, the property of Polish farmers who are the foundation, even though the constitution clearly states that the basis of the agricultural system in Poland is a family farm. You do not allow Polish farms to develop on the basis of the land of the Agricultural Property Resource of the State Treasury. I ask you to reflect, just as the reflection in your understanding occurred in many other moments in the case [[♪ The bell ♪]] that bill you pulled out of the wrong records of. Change your mind, I'm asking you. Is that what you're considering? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u403	The Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Zbigniew Babalski, asks for the floor. [[Voice from the room: Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u404	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Please don't use such words, especially since they fall... [[Like what?]] ...from the mouth of a country that held power for eight years. The undeniable fact is that within 8 years about 14 billion PLN was removed from the Polish village. Here in this room - of course I will not mention the name - there are people who were forced to buy Polish land. Here are farmers who were forced to buy Polish land. They said those wallets were drained just to buy this land. Today we say this: you will not buy, Polish farmer, but you will have the right to rent, to tender limited, to tender offers and only for farmers. That's our proposal. The lease we want to introduce is a basic form of real estate management not only in Poland, but also in most countries of the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Communion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u405	As corrected by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u406	Minister, you've misunderstood me. I was talking about the fact that ownership is a basic form of agricultural operation in Poland [[Applause]] and in many countries of the European Union, while lease is a basic form of ownership of agricultural land in Russia, Ukraine and Belarus. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] And that is a definite difference in approach between your approach and our approach and the part of this room that will support this amendment. And understand that. You close the way for Polish farmers to develop their farms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Don't lie to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u407	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. Two Members abstained in favour, 192 against - 252. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 5th Amendment and the 3rd Minority Proposal for an Article. 3 draft amending act containing amendments to the Civil Code of the applicant proposes not to add § 3 to Article 172. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mrs Dorota Rytkowska, Civic Platform Club. [[Rutkowska.]] Rutkowska, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u408	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Platform goes in such a way as not to introduce into this law a provision which says that an individual farmer will be able to acquire land by sitting, but provided that the area of his holding, which he already owns, and of those land which he intends to acquire, does not exceed 300 hectares. In our view, this provision raises constitutional doubts. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, there will be really few cases like this. I have a question for the Minister, the Prime Minister: Why do you not want to respect the property rights of Polish farmers? Let me remind you that in order to gain possession of land by sitting, you have to cultivate it, you have to manage it for at least 20 years. What's going on here? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u409	Please. Mr Leszek Galemba, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor. [[I'll see you next time.]] Are you talking to me? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Yes.]] The next amendment is the question tabled. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law introduces many different adverse solutions for Polish citizens. One of them is a significant limitation of the right to sit. Today, all Poles enjoy this right and it is guaranteed to Poles, whether in good or bad faith, in the Civil Code, and in 3 years' time only an individual farmer will have the right to sit in Poland. So how do you explain this country to those people who have used the land in good faith for 20 years and who today lose the right to sit in Polish law on the date of its entry into force in 3 years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u411	Please. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment and the 3rd minority proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 182 Members voted against - 263, two Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 6th Amendment and the same with it, the 4th Minority Proposal for an Article. 4 of the draft amending act containing amendments to the perpetual books and mortgage law, the applicants propose not to add paragraphs. 2 to Article 93. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The legislative consequence of the adoption of the proposal will be the need to delete in the article. 9 words and articles. 93. 2. Does Mr Galemba do this? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No, not for that. For this amendment, I'm sorry. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment and the 4th minority proposal, with consequence, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 450 voted in favour, 1 Member abstained, no one voted against. I state that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. Minority requests from 5 to 8 and amendments from 7 to 12 were tabled in Article. 6 draft amending law containing amendments to the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. Article 28a (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) This proposal is accompanied by minority proposals 7, 10 and 23. We will vote on these proposals together. The adoption of these minority proposals will render amendments 7, 8, 44, 46 and 52 irrelevant. There are questions. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! This amendment is an attempt to increase the area of agricultural holdings from 300 ha to 500 ha, because all the studies indicate that the resulting respect is such that in order for the farms to be actually profitable, an area of around 400-500 ha is needed. We therefore assumed that it would be good for farmers to have the opportunity to buy enough land to satisfy their aspirations and make them modern farmers. To this end, I would also like to point out that at the moment there are many farms with more than 500 hectares, so it will be difficult for farmers who can have 300 hectares to compete with farmers whose farms have more than 500 hectares at the moment. We therefore call for this amendment to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u413	Please. Mr Leszek Galemba, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The modern club with this change of 500 ha instead of 300 ha is bombing the constitution, i.e. the definition of a family farm, because the family farm is one that does not exceed 300 ha. If we subtract 300 from 500, that's 200. For 200 zlotys you can buy a pair of shoes. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Aaaa...]] But if we subtract 300 from 500 ha, we have 200 ha on average 50,000, so we have 10 million. That's what modern is all about. They have money and they want to buy it. [[Yes, sir.]] There's no permission to do that. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] As I say, there's no consent. The land is to remain in the hands of farmers and farmers are waiting for this. I think that's the most accurate goal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u415	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to ask you in these places the agenda, so to speak, to ask questions, not to conduct polemics. As corrected by Mr Meysztowicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u416	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I will address the Member because he forgot to tell you how many hectares he has grown on his farm. Why don't you come over and tell me how many acres your Member's farm is? You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: How much?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u417	No, no, sir, but that is not a correction. Mr... [[Give it to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u418	The corrigendum is: Modern has no intention of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u419	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u420	...buying no land because Modern's dealing with serious business... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...and I don't want to... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...she won't buy any land and I wanted to assure you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u421	Mr President, use your time to correct it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u422	Modern doesn't intend to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u423	That was not a corrigendum, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 5, 7, 10 and 23 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 182 Members voted against - 261, with four abstentions. I find that the Sejm has rejected its conclusions. In the 6th minority proposal to Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3b applicants shall propose to increase the number of operators eligible for the invitation to tender referred to in the provision. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 184 voted against - 235, 28 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3ba, read: ba, [[Joy in the Chamber]] applicants propose, inter alia, that the word "person' be replaced by the word "entity'. Amendment 8 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 7 and 8 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. The vote was 419 against - 3 and 28 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the 9th amendment to the inserted article. The applicant shall propose in paragraph 29a. Point 3 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 11 and 8 of the minority proposal futile. The question was asked by Robert Winnicki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u424	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We have a few dozen amendments ahead of us. We are behind the law by PSL and Platform, before us the law by Law and Justice. What's the connection between these projects? They are connected by the fact that they are not able to fully protect the Polish land from redemption by foreigners. That's what connects all these projects. Why? Because we are not able to do this effectively without obtaining a Polish discount, without obtaining an exception from the rules in force in the European Union. And that's what we should be pursuing. [[Moscow.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the intention of the legislators in the European Union and that is why on 1 May the protective period ends... [[In Moscow, Moscow must be pursued.]] ...so that the land in each country cannot be effectively protected so that it can be freed. We need to be clear to all citizens: if we want to protect the land effectively, if we want it not to be sold to foreigners, we need to [[♪ The bell ♪]] if you have a problem about the Polish discount and we need to start decisive political negotiations in Brussels on this subject. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u425	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The vote was 65, against 384, and no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 8th minority proposal to the added article. 29a paragraph. 1 point 1 applicants propose to replace a period of 15 years with a period of 5 years. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I rarely agree with Mr Winnicki, I guess never really, but today I have to give him a point. We are unable to protect ourselves completely from the foreigner's buyout of the land. Why? There is one more article missing from this bill, which I am talking about from the beginning to the ministers, namely we would have to prohibit Polish women from marrying Danes, Germans, Dutch, because in this way they can also acquire Polish land. Therefore, we are introducing a law that does not fully protect the Polish land from foreigners, speculations and other things, and in fact we are introducing far-reaching restrictions. An example of such a restriction is the issue of the amendment that we will now vote on. After buying the land of the State Treasury from the agency, the farmer will have to use it for 15 years. During this time he may get sick, may be unable to perform activities, maybe [[Game in the O.R.]] fall into debt, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe he wants to sell it - not necessarily sell it or hand it over to the agency - maybe he wants to hand it over. I ask you to support this amendment because this amendment will reduce this period from 15 to 5 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u427	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of... [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska stumbles when he comes down from the platform, joy in the hall]] It's okay. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 166 votes against - 277, 5 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 11th amendment to the inserted article. 29a applicants shall propose to amend the reference in paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 173 votes against - 267, 4 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. Article 39a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 8 applicants propose to amend the authorising provision. Amendment 48 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 12 and 48 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The vote was 445 against - 3 nobody abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. Amendments since 13. to 47. and minority applications from 9 to 23 have been submitted to Article. 7 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system. In the 13th amendment to the inserted article. 1a applicants propose to indicate additional cases where the provisions of the Act do not apply. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 14 and 15 futile. And here are the questions. The first question is asked by Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is the law amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forest Lands not identical with the amendment of the Kukiz Club15 to the government draft law on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws? We pointed out that not all Polish cities have a spatial planning plan. We offered to exclude agricultural property located in cities from the Act. This is a supplemental bill. Perhaps it would be worth discussing the amendment, since it is somewhat identical with your law withdrawn from today's agenda? As a young parliamentarian, I support the law and the changes that I agree with, but since the direction was right and the line was similar, what is the problem of working on and adopting the Kukiz amendment15? This is a question for the rapporteur, Robert Telus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u429	Please. Mr Artur Dunin, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! I was very sorry yesterday when I discussed the amendments, because this amendment is actually against the cities as well. Cities should grow, and you talked about it too. The bill that you have submitted as a club of law and justice to the marshal's staff that we have been discussing today, this amendment goes against. I have a big request to the Law and Justice Club for you to accept this amendment. And a question to the Minister to make it right. Minister, why is the Minister against this amendment? Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: A beautiful question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u431	Right. Would the Minister like to respond? I don't see Mr Telus reporting either. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 201 Members voted against - 245, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 1b concerning the exclusion of the provisions of the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The questions were raised by Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur, but also for the Minister, because the amendment we are discussing is the same as the one you just rejected. I have a question: Why are you afraid to exclude from this law those agricultural lands that lie in urban agglomerations? You don't think that someone in the centre of Warsaw, in the centre of Krakow, will be running a farm right now? This is actually an amendment that goes against the cities, which is also included in the bill that you have withdrawn from the Sejm today. Is it true that you only accept amendments and ideas that are made by Law and Justice, even though they are identical to amendments made by other groups? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u433	Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u434	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already talked about this, the predecessors have said - both the ban on selling agricultural land from the resources of the agency and the marketing of private land, because now we are talking about it, will also be very difficult within the administrative boundaries of cities. It is unacceptable that inhabitants of cities who do not want to be farmers may want to buy this land may want to settle on the outskirts of their cities, may want to invest inside. These lands and so, gentlemen are well aware of this, they will not be lands that will be used for agricultural purposes, because no cereal is grown today in the middle of the city. So that I really ask once again for a moment of reflection and support for this amendment, which excludes from these large restrictions land within the administrative boundaries of cities, and another amendment which excludes land excluded from agricultural production. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u435	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club, came forward. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like us to stay for a while with the urban theme, the role in the cities, and it's good that those numbers that I'm about to give you sounds in the full room. Well, within the cities we have 920,000. ha. Many times more, several times more than the land of the incriminated aliens. And now you want this land, 43%. cities, exclude from the action of the Agricultural Land Protection Act, while you do not wish to exclude this land from the action of the Agricultural System Shaping Act. I'm not asking if you're afraid because you're not afraid, but why you're not coherent in your thinking - and that should be explained, Minister, before it gets to another mess. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u437	The Minister of Agriculture, Krzysztof Jurgel, asks for the floor. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u438	Ladies and gentlemen! Strange are the questions, if this problem concerns more than 930 thousand. ha, including 230 ha of Class I and II land. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Thousand.]] We want you to make money in cities, even on those agricultural land that will be converted, and especially on the Agency's land, to earn owners, not buyers, as has been so far, who from the Agricultural Property Agency have purchased 10, 30, 200 ha each, converted it into investment areas and earned it six, seven times. Ladies and gentlemen, now the agency will be making money for innovation. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: And farmer, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u439	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 215 Members voted against - 233, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment, applicants propose to add an article. 1c concerning the exclusion of the provisions of the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 215 Members voted against 230 and 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 9th minority proposal to Article. 2 (1) applicants propose to amend the definition of agricultural property. The adoption of this proposal will render amendment 16 irrelevant. And here the question comes from Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u440	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! This is actually the most important amendment from the point of view of the Polish people. This is an amendment that changes the definition of agricultural property in connection with these restrictions that we introduce and excludes from these restrictions those lands which are also excluded from the ban on sales by the agency. So, on the one hand, the lands referred to by this amendment are excluded from the ban, the agency will be able to sell them, but in private the inhabitants of Poland will not be able to own them, because they will not be able to trade them in the open market. The restrictions in this respect are therefore more lenient for the agency than for private land trading. This is unacceptable. Please support this amendment. Really, this is a very narrow amendment that talks about housing conditions, spatial planning for purposes other than agricultural purposes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u441	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 193 votes against, 234 and 24 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 16th amendment to the article. 2 (1) applicants propose to amend the definition of agricultural property. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mrs. Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u442	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! It's exactly the same amendment, a similar amendment. We understand that you are defending the state land, but this law, this evil law, is defending Polish farmers before buying... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Weapons!]] ...protects Polish land before Polish farmers buy in private property, Minister. Why cannot the definition of agricultural property be specified? And it will only be one of the elements that can help a Polish farmer buy Polish land. Let us remind you again: it is a bad and unconstitutional law, but although a small record can make it easier for you, although to a small extent, to buy and sell land for Polish farmers. Once again, we ask the entire opposition to reconsider. Although this little thing, because the whole bill still causes huge, but it's very difficult. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in any sale of land and gives enormous power to the real estate agency, Minister. [[Applause]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: There are no obstacles to land circulation.]] [[Down with the commune.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u443	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of the Seym has succeeded in something that is rare here, namely that we managed to lead to the fact that everyone was in favour of the same, because even a month ago if someone told me that Modern will be behind it to protect Polish land for Poles, I would say: it is impossible, and yet in the discussion it turned out that they also support the idea which is theoretically based on this law. [[Voice from the hall: They've converted.]] In practice, however, it turns out that we are doing something that this nation can most share. Unlike other opposition groups, members of our group have no prejudice against the PiS and do not vote against any solutions just because they were introduced by the PiS. We respect that PiS can also have good ideas. [[Really?]] Unfortunately, this time it was undoubtedly not a good idea. And the problem is that we're creating powerful opportunities for abuse. I'm afraid, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That Minister Kaminski will not be able to protect from the massive corruption that will occur in the real estate business at the moment, and that is mainly in the cities, because if we do not exclude urban land from this law, then we create a huge...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u445	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u446	...a field for corruption. May I remind you that Minister Kaminski...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u447	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u448	...he was about to be arrested, he was about to be locked up just because before these corruption practices...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u449	Would you be kind enough to end your speech now?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u450	... He was trying to protect us. Then I call on us to think about it, because the minister really can't...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u451	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u452	...to defend him now, even though we will support him in this. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Tararara.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u453	This call we understand as a question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 215 voted against - 235, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to amend the definition of a loved one in point 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, club Kukiz... club PSL, sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u454	Dear Marshal, Minister! The state in the implementation of this vision, which shows that a better form of ownership in the Polish village is the state property than the private property of Polish farmers... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: You repeat this.]] ...at one point you went so far, I'm talking about the initial phase of this project that you started entering the sacred law of inheritance in the Polish village. Fortunately, under the pressure of the public, under the pressure of the opposition parliamentarians, you started to pull out of it slowly. But we do not want you to continue to be wrong, and we propose this amendment to clearly define the definition of loved ones, who is a loved one, or the closest family - we are talking about the transfer of agricultural land, which is today in the property of this family. We propose that you accept this so that no one else has any doubts that there is an assassination of the sacred right of inheritance in the Polish village, as it was in the original version of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u455	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 189 voted against - 262, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the inserted article. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 applicants propose to change the person exclusively entitled to acquire agricultural property. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 19 and 20 futile. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15, asks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u456	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is one of the most important amendments that the Kukiz club has made to this law. It was an amendment that allowed us to escape the unconstitutionality of all this legislation. It was an amendment which ended with the exclusion of a large part of the Polish society from the right to acquire land. The Minister has repeatedly stressed: only farmers will be able to buy land. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Individual, individual.]] I ask in such a arrangement: Why are other Polish citizens who live here treated worse, pay taxes and cannot buy their Polish land? Why can't a Pole who deserves to work here buy a farm for old age to rest on after the hard work he has done for Poland? Minister, why do you exclude some Poles from the right to purchase Polish land? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Because the land is for agricultural production, unfortunately, I am sorry. We'll talk at break.]] Unfortunately, we disagree here, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u457	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 204 Members voted against - 244, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the inserted article. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 applicants propose that the agricultural real estate buyer may also be a cooperative of agricultural production which brings together farmers. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 20 irrelevant. He asks Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u458	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm shocked after yesterday's meeting of our agricultural committee, so deep that I can't shake it until today. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And I'm barely standing here in this bleacher. But now I'm gonna make one exception, ladies and gentlemen. President Kaczyński, this is an innocent amendment, but it shows us where the agricultural world is. [[He doesn't know anything.]] I don't believe it, you don't need to know about agriculture, that you're about this amendment personally - I'm going to go there - not say that you should be introduced. Do you know what this is about, Mr. President? The point is that individual farmers are allowed to buy land, but already farmers' cooperatives, the same farmers that we are just looking for, we dream that these cooperatives are, we don't allow them to be. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Will, will be.]] This is paranoia. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] That's why my shock is that France, all the countries of Europe... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Time.]] We strive, this is our dream, and we don't let them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why this shock is caused by this, Mr. President... I think he'll stop when you vote and the other councilmen... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Members.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u459	Mr President, I would like to return to you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u460	...man, I'm sorry, they'll do exactly as you do.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u461	I would like to point out to you that the rapporteur here is Mr Robert Telus and the government is represented by Deputy Minister Zbigniew Babalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u462	Mr. Marshal, this concerns you, too. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Good!]] [[You're an animation, Zbyszek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u463	And in the future, please comply with certain standards.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u464	I'm still here, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u465	No, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u466	I'd suggest... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...for the President to speak because this is very important. [[Sit down!]] I need to see if this shock... [[Have some water.]] [[You almost won.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u467	Thank you kindly, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 186 Members voted against - 232, with 25 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the inserted article. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 The applicants propose an amendment concerning the acquisition of agricultural property in the common assets of the spouses. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The vote was 435 against - 7, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the inserted article. 2a applicants shall propose that in paragraph 2. 3 point 1 add point. d. Amendments 28 and 42 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 27 and 17 futile. a minority proposal. The questions are raised by Members. Member of Artur Dunin, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Go ahead!]] Prime Minister! Minister! It was with great surprise that we accepted the amendment which you gave to Polish farmers. [[Voice from the room: Oh, nice.]] [[Voice from the room: Ojojoj...]] Concerning amendments 21, 28 and 42. Tell me, Minister, Prime Minister or President... [[Oh, Jesus.]] ...how much more do you have to pay off your debts to a businessman from Torun? [[Applause]] [[You're out of line, kid.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u469	I would ask you, however, to talk about this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u470	The Catholic Church will be treated exceptionally by the states and this law. He will be able to buy land as he wills and when he wills, and the Polish farmer will not. [[So am I.]] [[How's that?]] [[Calm down!]] Why? Because you have to pay your debts. How much more besides the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Culture... Where else will the money come from? From our government, right? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Have some water.]] Mr President, think about what you're doing with the Polish state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u471	Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u472	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! You would like to exclude religious unions from this harmful law. Very well, this bill is harmful. I'd like the whole society to be excluded from this bill. [[Applause]] However, I have an immediate question: Doesn't the Minister fear that the day after the law enters into force will begin the process of registering the religious union of believers of onion... [[And it's German onions, German onions.]] ...which will not serve spiritual purposes, and its only task will be to mediate and de facto legalize the acquisition of agricultural property in Poland, enabling the acquisition of real estate to Poles? Isn't the Minister worried that we're going to create fictional relationships in this way, i.e. farmers, citizens will create religious unions that will not serve spiritual matters? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u473	Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u474	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The state - the drafters of this law - do not believe Polish farmers... [[We don't believe anybody.]] ...because you think they're about to line up to sell their land to foreigners. You don't believe Polish parents because you're worried that if you step into the right of inheritance, you'll probably be handing over a donation to a citizen of foreign countries. But what happened to you that you stopped believing in the Catholic Church, which was also included in the original version of this ban? I have a request that you not only persevere and vote in favour of certain amendments in this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u475	Please. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[She's some kind of farm girl, isn't she?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u476	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I was much calmer than my predecessors, but in fact this amendment surprised half of Poland yesterday. Poles were surprised because they would not be able to acquire agricultural land, and the Church and religious unions - yes. [[How do you know?]] [[Yeah, she did the research.]] Once, that even the Legislative Office yesterday had huge doubts about the constitutionality of this amendment, two, you create a huge gap, a huge rift in religious relationships, and also people from whom you think you want to protect the Polish agricultural land will be able to acquire this agricultural land. Therefore, I really encourage you to reflect again and think about whether you want to make this change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u477	Please. Mr Maciej Małecki, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With great amazement you could listen to some of the comments... [[Question.]] ...and I think he beat all the representatives of the Platform. If there are meetings at which we think you have ascended to the Himalayas of hypocrisy, then at the next meetings of the Sejm in the subsequent speeches you are outnumbering yourselves. It's really hard, but you're doing it. [[Question, question time.]] The man who cared so much about Polish land, about Polish interests and sees... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] ...a great threat with some incomprehensible obsession on the part of the Polish Church, I would like to ask a question... [[It's not polemic time.]] ...because I do not recall state speeches when the state government by Polish companies, e.g. by Polish Development Investments, the broad gesture was supported by foreign state-owned companies such as French EDF... [[Yes, sir. Yes, sir.]] ...investing allegedly for Polish money in our country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One example: only PLN 275 million in Toruń... [[What kind of question is that?]] ...from Polish Development Investments... [[Voice from the room: Question.]] ...for the construction of a gas power plant in the same Toruń where you gangsterly broke the agreement with a foundation that was supposed to extract heat from geothermal sources. [[Two and a half thousand. zloty of punishment, has exceeded time by 30 seconds.]] Where were you then? That's the question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u479	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, I was called by name.]] No, you weren't called by your name. [[Mr. Marshal, that's not nice.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 21st, 28th and 42nd, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. There were 253 Members voted against - 180, 17 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the 22nd amendment to the inserted article. 2a applicants shall propose that in paragraph 2. 3 delete points 4 and 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u480	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! My question is addressed to the rapporteur, Robert Telus. Why do the provisions of the Act not protect farmers from frequent intentional debt by banks and other financial institutions? We now have an offensive of bailiffs bidding on farmers' farms. One of the last meetings of the Committee on Agriculture was devoted to this and all Members wanted to help farmers. It's a chance we have right now. High Izbo, I ask you to support this amendment so that the banks become farmers' partners and not, as at present, only cash suppliers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u481	Please. Mr. Reporter... I'm not gonna say anything. [[♪ Move, joy in the hall ♪]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 272 Members voted against - 176 and 1 Member abstained. [[Bravo!]] I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th minority application, applicants propose not to add in Article. In paragraph 2a, paragraph 2a is replaced by the following: 4 in point 1 (a) b and c and point 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. 448 Members voted. Two Members abstained in favour of 165 votes against - 281. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 12th minority application, applicants propose not to add Article. 2b. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 23 and 24 and minority proposals 13 and 14 irrelevant. The question is raised by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club. [[What's with the questions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u482	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you're aware of what they did just now, changing their mind at the last moment. Banks, which today have agricultural land security, will go massly to farmers after changing the security and will force them to establish a different security under the threat of termination of the contract at all. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Other banks will take over. Don't scare me.]] I would therefore like to say that you have just scored a proverbial goal for the villagers. And as for the amendment that we will now vote on, yesterday, one of the Members of the Law and Justice, which is astonishing, came to me and says this: Madam, and is it true that if I buy land in private, I will also have to manage it for 10 years? [[Voice from the room: Which one is it?]] Member States of the Committee on Agriculture. [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: Which one?]] Yes, sir, this is the amendment that you can vote for so that you do not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u483	Please. [[Enough with the questions.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr President, the duty of Members.]] Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of the 12th minority request would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 166 voted against - 260, 23 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 23rd Amendment and the same 13. a minority application to the added Article. Article 2b (2) (b) 1 applicants propose, inter alia, to reduce the period of compulsory holding by the purchaser to 5 years. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Looking for permission in this courtroom, I'm gonna ask you if you'll agree with me... [[No.]] ...that in order to become a farmer, to buy land, you have to be an entrepreneur. I think you'll agree. [[No.]] By means of this law, however, you do everything to make such decisions as little as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, you are creating a situation where the decision to buy land will be more difficult than the decision to marry. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Bravo!]] [[Oh, you made that up.]] Because the risk in this bill will be greater. Hence, the amendment aims to multiply incentives rather than barriers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do you not want to encourage young people to become farmers so that agribusiness can flourish in the countryside? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u485	And to whom does the Member raise the question? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: By the way.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u486	The government, because he authorizes this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u487	Thank you very much. So maybe Minister Babalski can answer. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd Amendment and 13. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 175 votes against - 270 and 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the proposals. In the 24th amendment and the same 14th minority proposal to the added article. Article 2b (2) (b) 3 applicants propose to reduce the period referred to in the provision to 5 years. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u488	This bill forces people who are in trouble as a result of a decision that they want to become farmers to interpret their failure before the courts. I deliberately mentioned the situation of marriage, because, ladies and gentlemen, under your rule, it would be easier to divorce than to part with the fact that you bought the land. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: There are too many divorces anyway.]] I would like to say that in the event of a divorce, at least half of the assets remain, but under this law there may be nothing left. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you putting in that record? Why the rigors? I ask you to answer not to me, but to these farmers, to those people who want to invest, to dedicate their fate to the land and to being a farmer. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: End!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u489	Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th Amendment and the 14th Minority Proposal, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 175 voted against - 271, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 25th amendment and the same 15th minority proposal, applicants propose to delete point 2 of Article. 3 (1) (a) 1. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club. [[There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] [[Hurry up.]] [[Voice from the room: He's weak. He can't recover.]] [[He's still in shock.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u490	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Those cards shut our brains out. Everything. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] [[I told you he was in shock.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm just an adept... [[Get away from the president.]] ...to begin with an envoy - it has nothing to do with creating a good law. I'm not gonna tell you what's going on in the protest. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I cannot explain, Mr President, what this is all about. Take this card and a horse with a row, if you'll answer me what's going on. It's not about creating a good law. As a Member of the Republic of Poland, I am ashamed that I am in parliament and so I have come to make law. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Then pass the ticket.]] I protest. I'll meet you in the country. That's not what we say in the kitchen. Mr. Marshal! That includes you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's not right to sit down like this. We're not talking about a kilo of cabbage, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're talking about very serious things, and here's the mockery and mockery of it on this side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u491	If the Member asks for a combined vote, it is a matter of nature. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment and the 15th minority proposal will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. Two Members abstained from voting 186 against - 260. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 26th Amendment and the same with it, the 16th Minority Proposal for an Article. 3 (1) (a) 4 applicants propose, inter alia, that the entitlement referred to in the provision be granted to the Agricultural Property Agency when the subject of sale is a property with an area of not less than 5 ha. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The questions have been raised by Members. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. [[There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: Move.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u492	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Sovereign Central Planner, who will decide who can buy the land when and where, according to the provisions of the Act, will be the Agricultural Property Agency, namely its President. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Jesus, for 13 years.]] It will be the first and last instance in the land sale process. It will also have the opportunity to decide who can buy this land from private owners - the right of first purchase will be held by a neighbour, and if it does not agree, then the agency and only if the agency is not interested in buying the land, it will be able to sell it to the willing. In other words, in defense of the Polish land, we simply create corruption laws. This is the opinion of one of Polish economists - Łukasz Piechowiak. I don't think that's an isolated opinion. For this reason, I have a question for the rapporteur: Is it really the intention of the state to create a super agency on which many, many Poles will depend? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Super Corruption.]] [[Kaminski must have something to do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u493	Please. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, club PSL, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the rapporteur, the Minister, but also the President of Jarosław Kaczyński. Does the 5-year ban on the sale of land from the Agricultural Property Reserve of the State Treasury have to do with the recently revived contacts of the tenant lobby... [[There isn't.]] ...with your political environment? [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Ha, ha, ha.]] Isn't it that - I don't know if less or more consciously - you've succumbed to the lobby of the great years of fundists, whose leases end in the near future and will continue these leases at the expense of [[Applause]] farmers who would like to expand their family holdings? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Elewarr.]] [[Where did they get these?]] [[Voice from the room: Where is he from?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u495	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment and the 16th minority proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 202 Members voted against - 243, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the proposals. The 27th amendment is without object. In the 29th amendment to the article. 3 applicants shall propose that in the added paragraph. 11 The Agency's statement was read at the time of delivery of the letter. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u496	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The amendment we will support is in favour of farmers. The point is that the period from which it counts has been running since the farmer receives this letter physically, not since the letter is sent by the agency. I wanted to ask you about the matter completely omitted from the bill, namely the protection of the land which the agency now owns and which the agency will soon buy due to the right of the original purchase. What's gonna happen to this land in five years? I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u497	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. There were 183 votes against and 235 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th minority application, applicants propose not to add Article. 3a. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 30 to 35. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 162 voted against - 277, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 30th amendment, applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a to Article 3a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 182 voted against - 262, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 31st amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 1b to Article 3a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 182 voted against 266, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 32nd amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 1c to Article 3a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 32nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The vote was 180, against 267, and no one held back. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 33rd amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 1d to Article 3a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 33rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 180 votes against - 266, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 34th amendment, applicants propose, inter alia, to add point 2 to Article. Article 3a (3) (a) 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The vote was 443 and 4 Members voted against and no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 35th amendment to the inserted article. Article 3a (3) (a) 3 applicants propose that the information obtained by the Agency should be an undertaking's secret. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 35th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 295 voted against - 153, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th minority application, applicants propose not to add Article. 3b. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 36 to 38. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 173 voted against - 276, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 36th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 6 to Article 6 3b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The vote was 445 against - 2, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 37th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a to Article 3b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 37th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 182 voted against 261 and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 38th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 1b to Article 3b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 38th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 182 voted against - 267, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 39th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 3c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 39 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 184 voted against 266, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th minority application, applicants shall propose that in Article. 4 leave in the existing wording paragraph. 1.3. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 40 and minority proposals 21 and 22 futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. There were 183 votes against, 266 votes against, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 40th amendment and the same with it, the 21st minority proposal for an article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 applicants propose an amendment concerning the acquisition of real estate by the Agricultural Property Agency as a result of the conclusion of a contract other than the sale contract. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The adoption of these proposals will render the 22nd minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the 40th amendment and the 21st minority proposal will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. There were 183 votes against, 268 votes against, and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 22nd minority proposal to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point (4) (a) and applicants propose that the expression "inheritance' be deleted. The questions are raised by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u498	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The previous amendment that you rejected, and this minority proposal, concerns a situation that often happens in rural areas. There is a family, there is a owner, there is a farmer who uses a farm, he owns it, there are no children or children who are not interested in care because he is elderly, and he decides to give it to a neighbour closer or further one who takes care of him for years. We can say that this is the right to inherit. He decides that, by way of gratitude for care, he is elderly, I repeat this once again, he passes it on to the farm. The state of such transactions, such an inheritance, this kind of transfer of ownership, you place obligations in the law, as if it were potentially for foreigners or those who wanted to speculate on the earth. Question: "Do you not notice the need to change this record, which would lead to the legalization of the common phenomenon of land transfer in the Polish countryside to those who care for the elderly?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u499	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 211 voted against - 235, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 41st amendment, applicants propose that in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4 point 2 add point. c and d. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 41st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. There was a vote in favour of 386 against - 62 and one Member abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 43rd amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 5a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The questions are asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: I'm shocked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u500	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will risk saying that all Members, as we are here, are 100% We want it right. It's our duty to make a good law. That's why we're all here. And I'm going to risk, for the second time, saying that we're creating a law against people that aren't. We're at a point like this, and I'm not raising things from outside that point, that we're making a right to people who aren't, like, families. I'm talking about agricultural cooperatives. We make it impossible for these people to live, we make it impossible for these people to work as they want, to grow. Is that how we make the law? These aren't some sort of kolchozas from some past era, they're capital, they're an example of glowing bets. These are fantastic people and fantastic families. I appeal to you, my fellow Members, especially farmers - Mr President, also to you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We use these people's work every day. We don't even know. We're having breakfast, lunch and dinner. We like it, we like it very much, but we don't want these people in the country. [[What's going on?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u501	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u502	Please, let's vote in favour. Let's not let these cards take away our senses. [[Voice from the room: Drink milk!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u503	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 43rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. There were 184 votes against and 230 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 44th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) The applicant shall propose that point 3 be deleted and that the remainder be marked as one paragraph. Amendments 46 and 52 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 45 and 53 futile. The questions are raised by Members. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u504	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! We would like to thank you for this amendment, because this is the amendment that you have tabled at our request, at the request of all opposition clubs and at the request of all farmers. It has been farmers for the last four years, for eight years, who have set up activities, activities for which they have paid ZUS so that they can, Minister Jurgiel, produce cheeses, as we said at the committee meeting. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: We listen to Poles.]] And because of that... [[You guys are okay, we're okay.]] ...that we have made it clear to the Minister that the farmer who produces the cheese is still an individual farmer, and that it is not just the one who is covered by the KRUS, that you have withdrawn from the KRUS provision. We're very happy about this, but we're asking you to keep changing this bad bill. She's not good, a farmer becomes a farmer, but she can't buy land. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Maybe, maybe.]] Let us make it clear to all farmers that every fist of private land in this country [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be supervised by the real estate agency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u505	Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: The Member can buy from the stock can not...]] [[He can't.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u506	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! This amendment concerns the situation that a farmer who has undertaken another economic activity in parallel with an agricultural activity has set up an agricultural service establishment, has set up a micro-enterprises in rural areas, has launched a small processing, according to the original provision that you have proposed, if his farm is already 20 hectares old, it cannot increase this farm. I attach myself to those words that Mrs Niedziela said that you came out of this mistake... [[We accept your thanks.]] ...and I'm glad you came out of that mistake, but I have a question. What did you do when you wanted to punish in the original version of this type of farmers without allowing them to develop their farms by purchasing land? Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: And what's the point, sir? What thanks are these?]] [[What's with the pinch?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u507	Mr President, this is actually out of date since there has been a change. [[Did he say thank you or not thank you?]] Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Exactly so. I hope that the Member will praise us as well.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u508	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask the current question. That is, throughout the whole debate on agricultural land, it is said that in many countries of the European Union it is the same that there are restrictions on trade in agricultural land, because it must be protected, because its quantity is limited and we cannot lose it forever. Only in countries of the European Union, the individual farmer is someone else. That's good, it's true that this definition has been slightly extended in this bill. Moreover, a number of other amendments put forward by the opposition were also accepted. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Also, also.]] It's not true that this bill hasn't evolved. in the course of work. But I believe that further change in the definition of individual farmer is necessary and we should continue to work on the amendment of this law. I have a question: Are ministers ready to adopt a definition similar to that applied in other countries of the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They're ready. They're ready.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u509	The question has been asked, Minister. [[That'll be the answer at the end.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: We will conclude this at the end.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 44, 46 and 52 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The vote was 418 against - 5 and 25 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. Now yes, Amendment 45 is pointless. We are voting on Amendment 47. In the 47th amendment, applicants propose not to add paragraph. 3 to Article 9. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 47th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The vote was 190 votes against - 230 and 29 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 49th amendment to the article. 11 applicants propose to amend the transitional provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 50 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 49th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. The vote was 434, against - 14, 2 abstentions. The Parliament accepted this amendment and thus the 50th amendment became obsolete. In the 51st amendment, the applicant proposes to add a transitional provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 51st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The vote was 185, against - 232, with 29 Members holding back. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Amendment 53 is pointless. In the 54th amendment, the applicant proposes to add a transitional provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: The farmer is looking for a wife.]] [[Perhaps it would be faster, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u510	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! There's a poem for Wanda Chotomska's kids. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] What's up? Depends on where. In the meadow you can hear: kle, kle! On the pond: quack, quack! In the field: Kraaa! In front of the henhouse: corn! [[Jesus.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Learn to read...]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. President, I have a question. Why don't you understand and like Warsaw?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u511	Mr President, ask questions to the rapporteur or to the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u512	Looks like this bill isn't... [[Voice from the hall: He likes...]] ...or Chotomska's poem does not concern the capital of Poland, but it is different. [[And you were a knight.]] Agricultural Real Estate Agency has nearly 400 ha in Warsaw... [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] ... Fairs, Białołęka, Bielany, Wilanów and even Wola. For five years, you're blocking the city's development. You've blocked the program, the apartment for the young, now you're blocking, [[♪ The bell ♪]] stopping the sale of real estate in Warsaw, the development of Warsaw. Question: "Do you know that he will be at the Metro Fair in three years?"
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u513	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u514	This station will be located among the fields... [[Applause]] [[Sit down!]] [[The Marshal disables the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u515	Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 54th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 179 votes against - 245, 11 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 24th minority proposal to Article. 15 applicants propose to amend the transitional provision. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 182 Members voted against - 260, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Members of the House are asking questions. Mr Bartosz Jóźwiak, Kukiz Club15. [[Voice from the room: Józwiak.]] [[Bartosh, tell me the truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u516	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! We voted here, we tabled various amendments. Most of them did what they wanted. We are not surprised, it is like another element of the vote. I just want to tell you that by introducing this law, you will not protect the Polish land - as we have already tried to tell you here - from speculative buy-outs and by foreign entities, nor will you really serve farmers in the long term, nor will you serve Poles who are divided into at least two categories of citizens. I have a question: Is it really worth introducing such a resolution, even against the conscience of some of their Members, who today are likely to break their consciences and will have to deny what they have been saying for many, many years? Minister, in fact, we have done more to defend Polish farmers than you by rejecting these amendments in an attempt to make these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u517	Mrs Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u518	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Looks like we're finishing up this bill. I would like to say that we have obtained something that will be a good law for farmers. I'm afraid I can't say that. It is a bad bill, it is a law that actually defends only and exclusively the interests of the real estate agency of the State Treasury. [[Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: Defends farmers, Member of the Commission.]] Farmers will have difficult access to the land and farmers will suffer from it. Above all, it is a law which is incompatible with the Constitution, which is incompatible with EU law and which is incompatible with the provisions of the European Treaty to which we have joined. Finally, I would really like to convey to farmers one thing, that if they were expecting, as you say, this bill, they would be very surprised when they read it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: They already know this law.]] And they will owe it to your governments. [[Applause]] [[Away with the commune - you should have told me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u519	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u520	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is true that this law has evolved strongly since it left the Ministry of Agriculture, but it is not enough to vote for it today. It is true that the Polish constitution speaks of the fact that the basis of the agricultural system in Poland is a family farm, but the basis does not mean the only participant in life in the country. Therefore, the club The modern absolutely cannot support this law, hoping that in the future we will actually implement many changes in this law, because its non-compliance with constitutional rules is absolute. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u521	Please. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Protecting Polish land is our duty. Poland's land is an overarching value, a value that we should all take care of. Polish People's Party in the previous term carried out a law that protects Polish land. Today we conclude the process of the project that has evolved in this House under the pressure of agricultural protests, under the pressure of the opposition. This is the first law in this term of office of the Sejm, which has changed so far. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Good or bad?]] That's very good. You heard the voice of the farmers who came to protest at the Sejm. [[Applause]] Too bad the marshal sent them to the basement with his protest. You have changed this and we have clarified the elements of inheritance - they will be able to inherit directly loved ones. We changed matters related to agricultural activity and being insured in ZUS, performing public functions. [[Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: KRUS.]] Cases related to the purchase of Polish land in various municipalities have been changed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the farmer will be able to buy land not only in his municipality, but throughout Poland. Very good. Unfortunately, there has been no change in the important point concerning blocking the sale of Polish land to Polish farmers for 5 years. You didn't give in to requests or pressures or protests. You still have a chance to change that in the Senate. Polish farmers can be trusted to know what to do with their fatherhood. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: They have no money.]] Polish farmers can be trusted and should not be treated as foreigners. Polish farmers... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: They no longer have money.]] ...they've been taking care of Polish soil for generations. [[Time!]] For this reason, we cannot support this law, we will abstain from voting, we will abstain from voting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u523	Thank you, sir. I kindly inform the High House, because I've heard of basements before, that, yes, there are cellars in the Sejm, [[Joy in the Chamber]] there are business premises, storage rooms, but citizens are not accepted in the basements. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[But I'm still gonna file a motion.]] Agriculture Minister Krzysztof Jurgel asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u524	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This debate has been going on for more than two months and it is good that it has been held because Polish farmers have found out what the bill is. From these meetings, which took place recently and attended by about 400 farmers, in Poświęta or in Ostróda, it appears that everyone accepted this law, while in fact several hundred PSL activists came to Warsaw, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] to create an artificial atmosphere of protest. [[Bravo!]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: And for what, for what? We didn't want that.]] What is the origin of this bill? [[PRL.]] I will remind you, 4 years ago protests in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship related to the fact that here is the so-called. poles purchased land, and the government of the Polish People's Party and the Civic Platform could not cope with it. He couldn't handle it. [[The dream is the Polish People's Republic. That's what you're trying to do.]] ...there were strikes, I'll remind you, strike before the Prime Minister's office. Indeed, in these opinions, which we have received from serious environments, i.e. agricultural chambers, which are also dominated by the Polish People's Party or by the "Solidarity," the statements are as follows: the Government of Law and Justice has implemented our strikes. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] Let me remind you that two years ago, we filed a bill in Parliament. This is our program, the program that has now been implemented. And it's not like you came to power that you did anything different than you promised. We have it in the program. [[Yes, sir!]] There is a draft law contained in the sejm printing and these records have been transferred to the basic part of this law. I'm just saying we're doing the program. We didn't fool the residents, we preached it during the election campaign. And that's what we do at this point... [[Let's see what the farmers say.]] ...as in many other points. I know this doesn't suit you, because all you can do is mislead farmers, as President Kosiniak did... [[Yes, sir!]] ...who did not distinguish between legal inheritance and will and misled farmers by saying that it would not be possible to transfer property to loved ones. [[Applause]] It's a good bill, I assure you. [[Good for who?]] Time will show that this law was and is needed for Poland, and will lead to changes in this area, in the area of agricultural land management, as well as spatial planning. Changes that will benefit our landscapes, for our views, for what we call ordering agricultural space, production space. The MP said here, I think the head of the horse team, Honestly, that... [[Who?]] ... 400 ha in Warsaw. We're analyzing this trial, ladies and gentlemen. We don't have enough people to make these irregularities, let's call it the delicate ones that have been committed by this government in three months to explain. The point is, ladies and gentlemen, that this 400 ha Agricultural Property Agency will include a spatial planning plan and - what I said earlier - instead of 100,000. Sell 2 million or 3 million for 1 ha. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] And that will be the money that will enter the Treasury. [[Without this bill, you can do it.]] You can do without a bill, but that's how it works. [[But the bill's better.]] Many things could have been done, my fellow Members, but it didn't work out for you somehow. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: You did not!]] [[Yes, sir!]] As far as KRUS is concerned, Mr President, you are misleading. At present, if a farmer owns a farm - it was even here in your governments that requests were made to the committee - if he makes more than 800 zlotys, he must join the ZUS. Gentlemen, don't really mislead people. And you haven't changed that. We want to change that. I hope that this will be carried out in the course of the amendment of the KRUS Act. And that's where you're misleading. We wanted to make a proposal that when a farmer acquires agricultural property, he must be in KRUS if he acquires property above 50 ha. Owners' properties in Poland, which have more than 50 hectares, are less than 5%. There was no problem here, but there was the will of the majority, stunning some farmers in a sense. At this stage, We gave up that record. We can listen, we can draw conclusions. Next case: cities. I've told you this before. Nine hundred and twenty thousand. ha has an agency, there are agricultural areas in the cities of 240 thousand. First and second grade. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen, allow a spatial mess of our cities to become a place where there is no urban order. [[The voice in the room: The agency will do it for sure.]] I was the president myself. In 1994, we adopted a spatial planning plan in which the city is divided into certain functions. The worst part is that the wrong decisions of the current authorities in different cities lead to media that are programmed in a spatial planning plan... I'm going to extend a little longer, but just so you understand this: if we have a water diameter -- a meter -- to secure water for the industrial district, and here's the president's irresponsibleness to locate single-family houses there, these funds put into the media infrastructure are wasted at the expense of the residents. And that's why spatial planning has to be put in place, land has to be used for investment, security - that's what we call efficient management. [[Voice from the hall: The agency is not for this.]] You told the president we weren't defending the farmers. We're defending those farmers who, as it was written in one of the newspapers, coming in rubber boots on a bike, bringing 3 million in a bag, buying land, and now they're gonna grow this land, you know, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Because they won't be able to sell it to their mosquitoes. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to stress that the law is not more restrictive [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] whether it introduces more restrictions than they are in other countries. I'll quote, I've chosen the shortcut from the expertise we have done, what it looks like in other countries. In France, permission to acquire agricultural property is required. When selling agricultural property SAFER, so such an agricultural real estate agency, has the opportunity to exercise... the right of first purchase. It is the duty of 15 years to carry out the personal management of the purchased holding and to carry out the personal work on that holding. I'm gonna have a drink now. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: 6 hours.]] Germany, ladies and gentlemen, a country considered very organised. Permission to acquire agricultural property is required, i.e. the decision. Thus, an official at the level of our old age evaluates whether agricultural property can be disposed of and will be managed according to a certain plan, because there are plans to arrange agricultural production space which determine how the property is to be used in a given locality. In Spain, preference for real estate purchases has priority holdings, including a family farm. Denmark. The acquisition by a natural person of agricultural property is possible when the purchaser is a national of Denmark or a State of the European Union and under the rules in force there has the right to acquire the property situated in Denmark. The buyer or his/her spouse or children at the time of acquisition of the property in Denmark are not owners or co-owners of the agricultural property located abroad. If the purchaser owns an agricultural property in his home country, the Danish law requires the sale of the holding before the acquisition of the land in Denmark. Then Hungary. In order to acquire property, property is required to obtain the consent granted by the State authority which holds the right of veto. Earth can be acquired by a person who is currently growing it. The person purchasing the land must declare that he will personally cultivate the land and will not pass it on to another person. I don't think I'm gonna quote anymore. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Bravo!]] You have realized that not only Poland, but also the whole of Europe, in terms of the economy of agricultural land, is introducing certain rules. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] - the rules that are being introduced to us, at last. You've had eight years for this... [[We've got it, Minister.]] ...and you couldn't do it. Once again, we have adopted solutions such as those in other countries. The land will be grown by farmers, and will be used as planned for investment. [[To the budget.]] We've blocked speculation. Worry about the people you have friends with, because from the reports we have, it appears that on the last day of your office, the president of the agency drove to sell in person... Dozens of transactions. That's why we stopped the sale. [[It's already been done!]] We will regulate, within 5 years, within 2 years, a law that will concern not only ownership relations, but also forms of production organisation, as well as forms of organisation of the agricultural market. And here I can declare to Mr Aichler that, within these forms of agricultural production organisation, other forms such as those in France, i.e. farmers' cooperatives, can be considered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u525	Thank you. In corrigendum - correcting the misunderstood or misconstrued statement of the speaker - Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz is reporting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u526	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister has given me a great deal of time in his speech, but unfortunately in many passages he has misled the High House and the public opinion. Minister, there were about 5,000 at the protest of the farmers according to police records. persons. It's not 500, it's 5,000. persons. But if 500 activists of the Polish People's Party are enough for you to make as far-reaching changes to this law as those you have made, that is enough for us and we accept that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You have changed under our influence - opposition and agricultural protests - this bill. We have guaranteed the right to inherit loved ones. It was unpreprecise. What you released for consultation was not acceptable at all, what went to the Sejm was very vague. You can do business, you can do a public job and you can become a farmer. That's changed too. And it's a good thing you agreed to that. You can see that under the influence of resistance, of agricultural protests, you are able to change your mind under the influence of the substantive voice of the opposition. That's good for you. Another thing, you have changed a very important point - it is worth repeating it again - that Polish farmers can buy Polish land in different municipalities. We thank you for that, because we appreciate it, but don't mislead any more by talking about driving the president of the agency, looking for... [[That's what the media said.]] ...and selling Polish land. Do not mislead the public, how many people, how many foreigners bought land in Poland in recent years, because according to the agency data from the beginning of its term until 2014. ha was sold in 200 several contracts. Everything's gonna be okay if there's less lies, less misleading, less pinching on your part. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u527	There you go. The rapporteur of the committee, Robert Telus, will speak at the moment. I'm not giving you the floor. Please take your seat. [[He was mentioned by name.]] Please, Mr Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u528	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! As rapporteur for the committee, I would like to express once again the opinion of the committee in which the committee asked you to vote positively on this law. That's what the whole committee said. It is a bill expected by Polish farmers. There were a lot of questions. I also thank you for the substantive discussion, especially, ladies and gentlemen, for this discussion in committee, because really as I listened to this discussion today from the speaker and the discussion in the committee, it really is a big difference. In the committee, Members, first of all farmers, discussed the matter in substance and thank you very much for this discussion in the committee on this important bill. [[Don't bother.]] There were many questions for me as rapporteur. I didn't answer because most of these questions were political. I felt that it was impossible to enter into a political discussion when discussing such an important matter as defending the Polish land. I regret the fact that part of the opposition, here I stress that part of the opposition, has used this important issue very strongly for political debate, for political hucpa. I think it's a great irresponsible opposition, that it's such an important issue... [[Mr...]] ...used to fight politically or politically. [[Seriously, don't murder yourself.]] Members of the PSL, headed by Mr President, very often referred to the apolitical demonstration that took place before the Sejm, which concerned this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as it was apolitical, maybe... [[Voice from the hall: This is not the bill.]] ...to present a text that came into my phone... [[Accidentally.]] Not by accident, because I got it. Ladies and gentlemen, an apolitical demonstration, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And before that demonstration, there's this text message: Friends and Friends! On behalf of the President of Adam Struzik, we invite you on Wednesday 16 March at 3 p.m. Ten for the demonstration. [[What do you think, Vladek, about that?]] We ask you to organize a minimum 100-person delegation from each county. [[Applause]] With a friend's greeting, PSL Mazowsze's office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u529	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[No, it's a vote! What's this?]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 363, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. There were 233 votes against, 195 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]] [[One minute break.]] [[Time out!]] The formal proposal is made by Mrs Dorota Sunday. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u530	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! I'm filing a formal request for a recess, for the convening of the Senior Convention, so that you may have time to prepare for a meeting with the farmers with an eye in the eye...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u531	Madame, this is not a formal proposal. I'm so sorry, ma'am. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u532	...that you may have time to stand before the farmers...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u533	Member, please leave the speaker, because this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u534	The platform voted against.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u535	Madame, I will have to start the procedure. [[Put it in front of the tribunal.]] [[There you go, go ahead.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u536	Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u537	Madame, I would like to point out that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. [[We're approaching a second warning.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u538	We will apply this law to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u539	Ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to the next point. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the government draft law on amending the Public Road Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 325. [[Michael, don't let go!]] The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u540	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Even though we have beautiful roads and equally beautiful highways, even though we are implementing... [[Voice from the room: Break!]] [[President's leaving, recess.]] ...electronic toll collection system, the government has not decided to introduce an obligation to use this electronic system also on all Polish motorways, and not only on the roads managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. I wanted to ask: Why did this happen? Now we will have to deal with such a curiosity situation, that drivers will drive freely throughout the free Europe and half of Poland, will regulate tolls in electronic form, and on the Polish highway gates will stand. Of course, the Modern will vote in favour of the bill, but what I was talking about needs to be changed, which should have been done a long time ago. Therefore, the Modern Parliamentary Club expects the government to act decisively, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will allow you to finish with these medieval tolling procedures on our modern highways. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u541	Please. You have the floor of Mr Mirosław Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. [[Michael.]] Michael, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u542	Mr. Marshal! It should be a question about highways, but I would like to inform the High House that the marshal is breaking... [[The Marshal disables the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u543	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as I understand it, you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm on purpose at the moment. [[Yes, sir.]] Please leave the podium. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[He's asking a question. He has a right.]] [[Mr. Marshal, he has the right to speak.]] And I would like to point out to you that once again, if you interfere with the proceedings of the Sejm, I will be forced to begin the procedure of calling you into order. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But he didn't ask a question.]] [[What is this, a parenting hour?]] [[He has a right to say his remarks, really.]] The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 325. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 325, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 437 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the Public Road Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. We would like to return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes that the draft resolution be adopted in the form of a print submission No 286. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No 286 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The Sejm unanimously adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and on the amendment of some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. The questions are raised by Members. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The proposals contained in the parliamentary bill on IPN clearly indicate that PiS wants to have a monopoly on historical memory. What are you afraid of even eliminating a public competition for the position of president of the Institute of National Remembrance? What are you afraid of doing this? Is this the independence of the Institute of National Remembrance in your issue? [[Applause]] [[Yes.]] [[Voice from the hall: What about yours?]] [[What does it look like in yours?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u545	As I understand it, the question is addressed to the applicant's representative. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u546	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a weak bill. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a super-government that actually has an impact on the state's historical policy. It's a very big responsibility. A typical staff law that undermines the independence of the institute. I'll give you three examples. The investigative unit has been disengaged from the position of President. In fact, the President becomes a treasurer, the Attorney General, a payer. The basic question is, will Mr. Ziobro carry it all because he gets a lot of work. [[Voice from the room: Lift.]] I'm very happy for you. [[She's been practicing a lot.]] You are adapting even the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to the criteria enshrined in the draft amendment to the IPN Act, which has not yet entered into force. And yet I have a question: Is it true that he is already elected President of IPN and is called Sławomir Cenckiewicz? If that's true, it's a farce, ladies and gentlemen. Poland will laugh at you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm curious who's gonna be president of the IPN. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[See for yourself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u547	There you go. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk asked for the floor at the moment. Of course, I'd ask you not to speak up about the presidential candidates if you'd be kind. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Go ahead.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u548	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I want to be clear: after 5 years of functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance, changes are necessary. These changes will contribute to the exhumation of solid soldiers who have not been properly commemorated for many years. These changes will contribute to the functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance, which will give the opportunity to create and shape Polish historical policy. Today we see how often, how many violations are in the world concerning the lie of Oświęcim, Polish history. That is why we give the President of the IPN broad instruments for action. [[Partisan.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, I would like to emphasise by encouraging you to work on this bill, on this project, that we are able to make some adjustments. [[You're destroying the Sleep Act. Aram Rybicki, who died at Smolensk, you are destroying his work.]] I encourage you to work on the committee. We want to propose a return to the competition that will be held by the college. At the same time, I would like to give you the information I received today. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which was created by the Platform and by the PSL, which gave the Council the possibility to elect the President of the IPN, and then, later, to approve the reports by the President of the IPN, is a law in my deep pathological assessment, because today I was informed that President Łukasz Kamiński had concluded 71 civil law agreements with the members of the IPN Council. [[Applause]] Five professors, headed by Professor Anton Dudek, have concluded 71 civil law agreements with the president of the IPN. So you have appointed an institution, an IPN council, which was to elect a president and then control it, and then it turns out that the President concludes civil law agreements for the review of publications which, in my opinion, constitute a conflict of interest of this model of functioning of the IPN Act. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we amend this law, we go against you, all the opposition clubs. Today, do not vote against this law. In the committee, let's make provisions that give us the opportunity for a transparent competition. I encourage you to work on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u549	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 334, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 175 Members voted against - 237, 34 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the draft resolution at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft resolution to the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs Committee for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft resolution in print no.333, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 209 Members voted against - 231, with 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred this draft resolution to the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs for consideration. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the governmental bill amending the Act on the rules of residence of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 358. The question was asked by Anna Maria Siarkowska, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u550	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Reducing safety in the international environment is a fact. However, is the correct remedy for this situation to change legal procedures in such a way that we can only call for help more quickly? [[I'd better not.]] Let me say this: I would like to quote here the words of Jan Nowak-Jezioranski, the Polish promoter of our accession to NATO, that Poland can count on helping allies only if it wants and can defend itself... [[When the minister is not Macierevich.]] ...when she'll have her own ability to scare off her attacker. As Kukiz15, we would like this House to talk first of all about rebuilding the Polish operating forces so that we can talk about rebuilding territorial defence, promoting the right to own arms and allowing citizens to use this weapon in the event of a threat. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We would like to stress that in this situation there will be no discipline in our club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[A stone from the heart.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u551	So we can proceed with the vote? [[Voices from the hall: Yes!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 358 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 427 Members voted against - 8 and 7 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules governing their movement through this territory. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes, signed at Addis Ababa on 13 July 2015. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print No 299. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 299 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 434, against - 2, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a Law on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes signed at Addis Ababa on 13 July 2015. We refer to item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed at Colombo on 6 October 2015. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 300. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 300 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The vote was 441 and no one voted against, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes, signed at Colombo on 6 October 2015. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and some other laws. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. Amendments 1 to 9. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Investment Funds Act. In the first amendment to Article. 2. The Senate in the added point 33a proposes to define the concept of contact data. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. 10 votes against - 415 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 8a The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. 11 votes against - 413 Members, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 8a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Point 2 of the Senate proposes a change in the scope of the mandate of the partner. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. Nobody voted against - 427. The Sejm adopted the amendment unanimously. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes a new wording of point 2 in Article. 70s. 1 and Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [1] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 70zc lips. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221 Members. I state that the Sejm adopted the amendment unanimously. In the 5th amendment to the article. 70s. Point 2 and Article 3 70zc lips. Point 2 of the Senate proposes that the term "Company' be replaced by the words "Company'. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. Five votes against -441, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 72a paragraph. 4, Article 81d paragraph. 4 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 87e paragraph. 3 The Senate proposes that the costs of the procedural replacement be borne by the depositary in the event of a loss of the process. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. 201 Members voted against - 242, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 228, Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 and Article 1 The Commission shall The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. 233 voted against - 213, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. 228, Art. 229a, Art. 229b and Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1a The Senate The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. The vote was 231 against 214, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes a new wording of Chapter 1a in Chapter XII. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Four against 434, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 3c of the Accounting Act, the Senate proposes that the words "altitude and determination of the value of net assets on the right of participation" replace "net assets" on the right of participation and on the manner in which it is determined. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220 Members. One Member voted against - 438, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 59 (1) (a) 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). The 60th Act on Commercialisation, Restructuring and Privatization of a State Enterprise Polskie Koleje Państwowe senat proposes legislative and editorial changes. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. One Member voted against - 447, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. Point 2 (1) (a) k Act on Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing The Senate proposes an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. No one voted in favour, against 442 Members, with one abstention. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 points 1 and 2 of the Act on the supervision of the capital market The Senate proposes that the word "rightholder" be replaced by the words "to which the entry entitles." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against the 13th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. No one voted in favour, against - all of them. The Sejm adopted the amendment unanimously. Amendments 14 to 35. The Senate reported it to the article. 33 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies. In the 14th amendment to the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Senate proposes to delete the word "actions." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 14th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. Nobody voted in favour, everyone voted against. [[Voice from the room: Break!]] [[Voice from the room: No break.]] The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. Article 2 45. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. Everyone... I'm sorry, no one voted in favour, against 439 votes, 1 member abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. Article 49 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 1st Senate proposes an editorial change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. 201 Members voted against - 246, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Time out!]] I didn't hear voices. [[Voice from the room: There isn't one!]] [[Three hours without a few minutes off!]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Calm down, please. In the 17th Amendment [[Joy in the Chamber]] to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 50... sorry, for the article. The Senate proposes to delete the amendment to paragraph 53. 12. This amendment is combined with amendment 26 to Article. 96. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 17 and 26 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 440... excuse me, 444 Members. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The absolute majority is 223. Nobody voted against -444, which means everyone voted against. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: I think it's a break!]] High Seym! If any of the club presidents file a request for a break, I will accept that request. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No!]] In the 18th amendment to the article. 55a paragraph. Point 1 (2) of the Senate proposes to delete the words "the choice of the home country' shall remain unchanged unless the issuer has chosen a new home country in accordance with paragraph 1. 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a, 3a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Joy in the Chamber]] 444 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Mr. Marshal can take a break, too.]] In the 19th amendment to the article. 55a The Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 3a. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Applause]] The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Everyone voted against. I understand the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th Amendment, the Senate proposes a change to introduce... into the calculation in the article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. Everyone voted against. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Break.]] [[Voice from the room: Not good.]] [[He's taking a break.]] In the 21st Amendment... [[Voice from the room: Microphone!]] In the 21st amendment to the article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 of the Senate proposes legislative amendments. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 21st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. No one voted in favour, against - 445 Members, abstained 1. The Sejm, in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes, rejected the amendment, sorry, accepted. [[Time out!]] In the 22nd amendment to the article. 69b. The Senate proposes legislative amendments. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 22nd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. No one voted against - 445, no one abstained. The Sejm unanimously accepted the amendment. In the 23rd amendment to the article. 69b. 4 and 5 Senate proposes editorial changes. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. No one was against - 441, and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 24th amendment to the article. 87 The Senate proposes among others. delete the amendment to point 5 and add a new paragraph. 1a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 24th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. Nobody voted against - 428, no one abstained. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Mr. Marshal...]] But we'll be done right away. [[Oh, come on.]] [[Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion.]] [[Finally, bravo.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u552	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask you here for the health of the High House's work... [[10 minutes off.]] ...10 minutes off because we've been working here for hours. A moment's break won't stop us from ending the vote today. [[No!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u553	Do any of the clubs have an objection? All right, let's take a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 a.m. 21 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 18 of the agenda. In the 25th amendment to the article. 90. 1d The Senate proposes to amend its reference. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 25th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 319 Members voted. The absolute majority is 160. No one voted against - 319, no one abstained. [[Voice from the room: Hurry up!]] The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 27th amendment to Article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1e The Senate proposes that the word "or " replace" with "or "or." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 27th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 389 Members voted. The absolute majority is 195. No one voted against - 388, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 28th amendment to the article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1g and Article Paragraph 97. 1c The Senate proposes to delete the words or the subsidiary of the parent undertaking. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 28th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. No one voted against - 420, one Member abstained. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 29th Amendment, the Senate proposes legislative amendments. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 29th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. No one voted against, there were 422 Members, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 30th amendment to the article. 96 The Senate proposes legislative and editorial changes. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 30th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. Nobody voted against - 430 Members - no one abstained. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 31st amendment to Article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The Senate proposes that, after the words in paragraph 13 and 15. add the words "paragraph 2'. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 31st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. No one was against - 437, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 32nd amendment to the article. Paragraph 97. 1c The Senate proposes that the word "annual" be added after the word "total." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 32nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. There were 8 Members against - 436, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 33rd amendment to the article. Paragraph 97. 1e The Senate proposes a legislative change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 33rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. For - 209, against - 234, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 34th amendment to the article. Paragraph 97. 1f The Senate proposes that the word "sanction" be replaced by "kara." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 34th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. No one was against -442, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 35th amendment to the article. 99. 2 The Senate proposes an editorial change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 35th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. No one was against -443, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 36th amendment to the article. Paragraph 83. 3 point 1 of the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities The Senate proposes an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 36th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. 1 was in favour, against - 441 Members, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 37th amendment to the article. 48 (1) (a) The 4th Law amending the Senate proposes an editorial change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 37th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. For 156, against 284 Members, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 38th amendment to Article. The 60th Law amending the Senate proposes an editorial change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 38th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. There was one Member against - 435, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 39th amendment to Article. 62 of the Law amending the Senate proposes legislative amendments. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 39th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. No one was against -443, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 40th amendment to the article. 62 and 63 of the Law amending the Senate proposes changes of an editorial nature. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 40th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. Against the vote of 442, no one was and no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 41st amendment to the article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 3rd bill amending the Senate proposes an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 41st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. There were 193 Members against 248 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the prevention of sexual crime threats (prints 189, 330 and 330-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to present an additional report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u554	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All four amendments tabled after the second reading were discussed during the work of the subcommittee and the committees. At its meeting, the committee considered that all four proposals, all four amendments, had to be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u555	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 330. The Commission also presents minority proposals and the additional report on amendments that we will be voting on first. In the 1st minority application, applicants propose to amend the title of the law. This proposal is accompanied by minority proposals 2, 3 and 28. We will vote on these minority proposals together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 1, 2, 3 and 28 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. It was 177 against 266, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. In the first amendment to Article. 2 applicants propose changes to the definition of sexual crime. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For 16, against 384, 34 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 3 (2) applicants shall propose an editorial amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. It was 43 against 379, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. 3 applicants propose the new wording of point 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. It was 165 against 232, holding off on 32. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th minority proposal to Article. 4 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The adoption of this proposal will render minority proposals from 7 to 13, from 15 to 17, from 20 to 23 and 26 and amendments from 2 to 4. The consequences of the adoption of this proposal will be appropriate amendments to the draft law. The question was raised by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I don't see the Prime Minister. Oh, you're very good. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because I have a question for the Prime Minister. Protecting children from sexual crime is not only very necessary, but it is a duty of our adults. However, caution is needed. I want to ask you a question about a public register that raises serious constitutional and social concerns. I would like to stress with all my power that the public register poses serious threats to victims of crime, to children who are to be protected by this law. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, why do you agree to stigmatize victims, defenseless children? [[To the applicant.]] It's an undisputed injury. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please accept the minority request. [[Deep question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u557	Thank you very much, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request, together with the consequence, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. It was 171 against 262, 3 holding back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 7th minority proposal to Article. 4 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. This proposal brings together minority proposals from 8 to 10, 12, 15, 17, 18, 20, 21, 25 and 26. We will vote on these minority proposals together. Their adoption will result in the futility of minority proposals 11, 22 and 23. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals from 7 to 10, 12, 15, 17, 18, 20, 21, 25 and 26 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 174, against - 257, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. In the second amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 applicants propose to delete point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For -57, against 384, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th minority proposal to Article. 7 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For - 167, against - 264, holding down 5. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 13th. a minority proposal to the Article. 9 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1.3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour 13. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 171, against - 266, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 14th minority proposal to Article. 11 applicants propose e.g. to reduce the time limits referred to in that provision to 2 days. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. In - 178, against - 262, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 16th minority proposal to Article. 12 applicants propose to delete point 5. The adoption of this minority proposal will render amendment 3 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th minority proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. In - 56, against - 384, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to restrict the circle of entities to which the right to be informed of the person included in the register referred to in that provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 64, against - 375, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th minority proposal to Article. 14 the applicant by the addition of paragraph. 3 propose using a secure electronic signature to communicate with the ICT system operated by the Minister of Justice. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. In - 177, against - 265, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 22nd minority proposal, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 16. The adoption of this proposal will render the 23rd minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. The question was raised by Mrs Zofia Czernow from the Civic Platform. [[Voice from the Chamber: I have already voted.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u558	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! There is still a chance to avoid the negative consequences of the introduction of a public register. We have a proposal, a minority request, which allows data from the public register to be made available without restriction, but at the request of the person concerned. It is proposed that the Minister for Justice lay down the rules for the making available of these data contained in the public register by means of a regulation. I ask the Prime Minister and the governing party to support this constructive request from minorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u559	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. It was 203 against 238 and 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 23rd minority proposal to Article. 16 applicants shall propose that the data referred to in that provision be available in police offices. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. For - 172, against - 264, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 24th minority proposal to Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The applicants propose to delete words with limited access. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 174, against - 266, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 27th minority proposal to the added Article. 21o of the Police Act, the applicant proposes a new wording of paragraph 1. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 172, against - 264, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 27. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 39, against - 398, stopped 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 29th minority proposal to Article. 28 applicants propose to amend the date of entry into force of the Act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. Forty-five, against 388, four stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question was raised by Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u560	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask whether, following the substantive debates in the committee, an in-depth analysis of the possible negative effects of this law has been created in the government. In Modern times, we wondered how to balance good and bad elements in this bill, how these solutions will cause further suffering in people who have already been wronged, how much the purpose justifies the means. These questions include a non-supervised public register that links criminals to their victims, links with innocent families and personal errors, and the second thing is a map of particularly dangerous places that will make criminals move to areas described as safe and they will hunt their victims there. After careful analysis, we assessed that the social consequences for the victims, innocent families, the inhabitants of the land from the map, the ostracism that will happen to them, are difficult for us to accept. These are very high costs. Therefore, the Modern has proposed amendments which have unfortunately been rejected. However, given the good side of this law relating to the obligation to check the person before he is admitted to work with children or the obligation to report the whereabouts of criminals, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Modern will not vote against it. [[Vote as you wish.]] However, the Members' Club The modern government expects an in-depth analysis of how to implement a better, holistic and therefore more effective system by which our country could really fight this crime... [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u561	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u562	...because the real and effective protection of children is essential. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u563	Thank you, sir. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Patrick Jak. [[Voice from the room: No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u564	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Seym! The opposition is proposing amendments which aim to torpedo the project, a project which is very much needed in Poland, a project that will enable the creation of a paedophile register. High Sejm, you are questioning the effectiveness of the public register. Then all you have to do is reach out and say, "I'm checking and reaching out to other countries' experiences." And so on. in the United States, where the register is full and accessible, much wider than we suggest, the High Sejm, in the years when this register was in operation - you can read it on the U.S. Department of Justice website - at that time sexual crime dropped by 62%. 62%, High Sejm. Today, we have to ask how many years have been possible over the last years, in which we have proposed to you the creation of such a pedophile register, to save children, just as in the United States. Thanks to the creation of a preventive tool, parents will have in-depth access to knowledge and will know when a dangerous paedophile will appear in their surroundings. You're questioning the open register. In the meantime, we in our bill propose a solution whereby the open register will be reserved for a particular group of criminals, the High Sejm, i.e. for those who committed crimes with particular cruelty towards children, and those who acted under the conditions of redecision. The question to be asked is: Who are you defending? During the committee work, the question was often raised, and what about those paedophiles who had already completed their punishment. High Seym, we're running out of time to ask questions about poor paedophiles. No, today we have to ask the question: What about the poor children? [[Yes, sir.]] We bring you back, we put you on your feet instead of on your head. [[Don't scream.]] [[Keep your voice down.]] We're running out of pedophile paradise, whether you like it or not. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u565	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 330 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. Za - 275 Members, against - 2 have abstained 166. The Sejm passed a law on the prevention of sexual crime. That's where we ended the voting block. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 36 hours 21 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws (prints No 364 and 376). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u566	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. The project is included in print No 364. High Izbo! By Act of 11 July 2014, the Sejm amended the Geological and Mining Law Act and certain other laws. Those provisions govern the scope of concessions for the exploration, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. More than one year's experience in applying the rules adopted in 2014 leads to serious problems in interpreting them. Errors in the rules prevent the proper conduct of concession proceedings. First of all, it is necessary to introduce an independent legal basis for the modification of concessions so as not to use the Article. The 155th Code of Administrative Procedure makes the procedure extremely complicated. In addition, the transitional provisions governing concessions granted on the basis of provisions prior to the 2014 amendment had to be amended, including matters relating to important acquired rights, e.g. the rights of the entity which has discovered and documented the deposit to obtain a concession for the extraction of hydrocarbons from that deposit. I move to a detailed presentation of the provisions contained in the committee's report. High Izbo! Art. 1 of the draft law concerns amendments to the Law of 9 June 2011. Geological and mining law. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 34 of that Law. 1 is replaced by the following: The concession body may also modify the concession at the request of the trader to whom it was awarded. It's for the mouth. In turn, paragraph 1 is added. 1a sounded... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u567	I would very much like to ask your Members to remain silent, because this is bothering the rapporteur. [[Voice from the room: They can't hear.]] I'm asking you to calm down. Quiet, please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[I'm so sorry, Marshal.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u568	It's for the mouth. 1. the following paragraph shall be added: 1a as follows: 1a. The provisions on granting the concession shall apply mutatis mutandis to the modification of the concession. The cooperation with the authorities laid down in the law shall then only concern those matters which are the subject of the intended amendment, in particular as regards compliance with the intended purpose or use of the immovable property as defined in Article. 7. The provision of the Article. 155 Code of Administrative Procedure shall not apply. And a few words of comment. First of all, it should be clarified that concessions may be issued by the concession body either at the request of the trader concerned or ex officio. Separation of these provisions into the mouth. 1 and 1a, i.e. to separate editorial units, confirms the intentions of the legislator, that is to say, it facilitates the interpretation of these provisions in such a way that this provision contained in the paragraph. 1a refers both to concessions issued by the licensing authority on request and ex officio. These are the changes in the article. 1. Art. 2 of the project amends the Act of 11 July 2014 amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and certain other laws. The provisions in Article shall be amended here. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission's decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the I'll remind you, Art. 8 regulates the rules for the performance of the concession, including, for example, the way in which the concession fee is calculated and the division between the eligible entities. It is suitable in this project, which I am now presenting, the new sound of the mouth. 1. And I quote: "1." The concessions for exploration or exploration of hydrocarbons granted under existing provisions shall remain valid until the expiry of the period for which they have been granted, subject to Article. 9 and Article 9 10. High Izbo, this amendment is intended to give the possibility to include in the implementing provisions concessions for the exploration and recognition of hydrocarbons from applications submitted before 30 September 2014 and granted after that date. Where did this date come from? Namely, a retroactive provision, which was included in the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the 2014 Act, i.e. the last amendment. This article, this article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 canceled all applications for concessions submitted 3 months before the date of entry into force of the Act. Since the Act entered into force on 1 January 2015, the three months back are 30 September. This is the border date. The investigation of applications submitted after 30 September was therefore rejected, but proceedings were initiated on applications submitted before 30 September 2014. It is these concessions that concern those concession applications that concern the regulation of paragraph. Article 1 8 currently amended law. Lips, on the other hand. 3 in that Article. 8 has the same effect as the mouth. 1, but concerns applications for concessions for the extraction of hydrocarbons. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 concerns applications for search and diagnosis, paragraph. 3 relates to applications for the extraction of hydrocarbons. Further amendments to Article 8, i.e. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 2 (4) concerns concession fees and amendments to paragraph 4. Paragraph 4 (7) concerns operating charges. In both of these points, an additional reference to Article shall be made to these two editorial units. 141 Geological and mining rights, which form the basis for the allocation of the levy between the eligible entities, and the second reference to Article. 142, which in turn provides the basis for the enforcement of charges. Second amendment to Article 2 of the draft law in question refers, in turn, to Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 According to Germany, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and that it is compatible with the This amendment aims to remove some inconsistencies, some kind of double reference. This inconsistency would arise after the extension of the transitional provisions to concessions issued after 30 September 2014, since the provisions of Article apply to those concessions. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 on the one hand, directly on the basis of Article. 10 in conjunction with Article. 8 and they would have acted accordingly if we had not amended this provision, Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. This is the whole revision of the specific provisions of the Article. Two of our projects. Art. The 3rd project under discussion states that the Act shall enter into force on the date of its publication. We have here, High Izbo, of course, the shortening of the vacathio legis. Let me remind you that the shortest, decent, as you take, vacathio legis is 14 days old. And that is the 14-day deadline included in print No 364, in a draft submitted to the High House by a group of Members whom I had the honour to represent as a representative of the applicants. However, in the course of yesterday's work in the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the submitted project, the committee considered it useful to shorten this vacathio legis. Well, High Izbo, you need to realise the reasons that can entitle you to such an extraordinary shortening of the vacathio legis, so that this short vacathio legis somehow does not undermine confidence in legal certainty, trust in the state, to the authorities implementing the legislation. And here it is clear that licence applications have been submitted long before 30 September 2014, so the interested parties do not have to carry out any activities, and the fact that these provisions have entered into force in advance will allow the issue of concessions to be issued more quickly. So all interested parties will benefit from this shortening of vacathio legis, which will benefit all applicants. The Polish state will also benefit from the revenue to the budget for the concessions granted. And this is the argument which the committee considered during the meeting decided that we had decided to accept the amendment on shortening the vacathio legis. The whole committee, in principle, not just the whole committee, accepted the shortening of the vacathio legis in the draft text submitted to the High House. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, please accept the draft contained in the committee's report in print No 376. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u569	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Małgorzata Golińska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u570	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the parliamentary draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and certain other laws, together with the amendments adopted at the first reading which took place at the meeting of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry, I find that these changes are extremely important, important. As the rapporteur has discussed the draft in very detail, I will refer to only a few aspects. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since 2012 there has been a geological and mining law in Poland. The introduction of this law involved the implementation by the European Commission of proceedings before the European Court of Justice in relation to the allegation that Poland had failed to implement the so-called. the hydrocarbon directive. Unfortunately, at that time the legal basis for the modification of concessions was not clarified in the provisions of the Act. The proposed amendment clarifies the issue of licensing both at the request of the trader and issued by the Authority of its own motion. The revision of the provisions of the Geological and Mining Law took place in 2014, as the rapporteur said. Since then, some problems have been observed not only with regard to the interpretation of some of the provisions introduced, but also with regard to the activities of exploration, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Carbohydrates, I will remind you, are crude oil, natural gas, their natural derivatives, as well as methane present in coal deposits, with the exception of methane occurring as accompanying mineral. An application for concessions for exploration and exploration of hydrocarbons and for the extraction of hydrocarbons from deposits may be made by any economic operator, which is issued by the Minister of the Environment. Unfortunately, the provisions of the Law amended in 2014 even prevent the conduct of proceedings in respect of the activities I mentioned. It is therefore necessary to revise the transitional provisions governing concessions awarded after the entry into force of the amended law amending the Geological and Mining Law, since today's practice indicates that due to the incorrect wording of the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and paragraph 1. 3 there was a legal gap. There is no legal regulation for the award of concessions after 30 September 2014, but from applications submitted before the amending act, as they do not exist in the light of transitional provisions. Today's proposed change regulates this condition. We also believe that the important interest of the State, here in detail the rapporteur, has talked about this, so I will no longer develop it, is in favour of reducing the vacathio legis for the proposed project to the maximum. In view of the arguments made in this explanatory memorandum, Law and Justice welcomes the proposed bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u571	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u572	Mrs. Marshal! We all want concessions to be issued as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible, which could be used by mining companies in such a way that, in fact, these deposits that are exploitable are allowed to be used as soon as possible. The Civic Platform therefore supports this amendment, the amendment of the law, which results from certain legislative shortcomings. Here, of course, I would also have general attention for the future concerning the procession. Not only in this case, but in general in the Sejm, it can be noted that important laws concerning important problems, which also raise social controversy, are being prosecuted too quickly and in a way that often allows or leads to misrepresentation being accepted. If we look at the Act on Agricultural Land Trading adopted just now, it should also be pointed out that such important laws or the forthcoming Act on Renewable Energy Sources and Farms, windmills should be preceded by a solid public hearing. Just take your time, because then the consequences are often... They simply touch citizens and companies. It's hard, too... Then a lot of time. we must devote ourselves to making some changes. Here I would like to draw attention to this matter. Finally, I would like to say, once again, that the Civic Platform supports this change and supports the idea of its immediate entry into force. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u573	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u574	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! With regard to the parliamentary draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws, print No 364, I would like to state on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 that the 2013 Directive actually lays down requirements to reduce the risk of accidents also during the extraction of hydrocarbons. It requires this in general. The issue of concessions to entrepreneurs who wish and apply for the extraction of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Poland also requires appropriate provisions, which will ensure first and foremost safety, reasonable management of deposits in the Republic of Poland and enable the efficient use of these goods which our country currently owns. I understand that the rules required by the EU regulations should be dealt with quickly, but that the process itself should be carried out in a more reasonable, more thoughtful way, it must be carried out in a longer and 100% manner. It's perfect. I'll use an example. The concessions - not on hydrocarbons, but on mining of minerals, hard coal - often limp, so to speak, in ministries, with the minister responsible for these matters and the process of obtaining the concession itself takes up to a few years. We must pay very close attention to this. Doesn't the licensing itself block businesses who want to exploit their potential and their ability to extract and exploit hydrocarbons? As regards the principle of licensing by the concession authority itself, there is no doubt. This is a regulation that should be done fairly well, but, as I say, in a thoughtful way. Nevertheless, and according to the fact that deposits and resources in the territory of the Republic are controlled in a manner that is made available to entrepreneurs, Kukiz15 will support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u575	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u576	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The history of natural gas extraction in Poland is long. As a second-degree mining director, I've had the opportunity to observe them at close range in recent years. Between 2010 and 2013 I participated in the club of liberation of Poland from the necessity to import natural gas from abroad. I conducted the most advanced search for natural gas from slate: 11 wells, 4 hydraulic fracturing. Geology in Poland is not easy. The deposits are much deeper than those in the United States - 2.5,000. m. The investment process is very expensive. A single drilling is often the cost of more than PLN 10 million. In such a situation, any rational government, at least until the well-established production of hydrocarbons, supports legislative investors. What did our government do? He wasted a huge opportunity in concert. By introducing a new Geological and Mining Law in 2013, every risky investor received a signal that no business plan in Poland is safe against the greed of politicians. The list of those who were and resigned is long. It includes not only the world's largest companies such as ExxonMobil, Marathon Oil Corporation, Chevron, Talisman or Eni. They withdrew from the contribution gas extraction KGHM Polska Miedź, Tauron, Enea, PGE, also the Lotos Group and several less famous private companies. They remained on PKN Orlen and PGNiG battle square. Even if they get involved in the search as much as possible, they can't, to be honest, lead the search, because you need hundreds of wells, and you need billions for that. Let me remind you, we had those investors. Our country does not guarantee a stable legal system, tax system, does not involve its own resources in the exploration of hydrocarbons, does not create a system of sharing the risk of cost-effectiveness and profit from the production of energy raw materials. In the last more than 8 years, not one of the risks associated with the investment process in the sector has been permanently reduced. Uncertainty was growing. It is not surprising, then, to want to save even what is still there. The Ministry states that there are 30 concessions to be rescued which, if granted, can be carried out by investors. The Modern Ryszard Petru Poselski Club is for development and investment, for creating new, well-paid jobs. We will support the proposed changes, but it is impossible to remind on this occasion that the law that we are amending has been introduced by the PO-PSL coalition at, which I would like to stress, the lack of opposition to Law and Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u577	Thank you very much, sir. One person came to the question. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. I invite Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15. Two minutes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u578	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to this debate, I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry: Do you see a correction for references in the new concessions as to the philosophy of letting these companies into future drillings? Like these companies, whether they are, or within the meaning of... I think it should be Polish companies that already have a lot of know-how. Are we putting them into a bigger strategy, or do we have any idea who's going to do these drillings in the future? Thank you. [[10 million one borehole.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u579	Thank you very much, sir. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment, the country's chief geologist Mr Mariusz Orion Jędrysek, will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u580	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The government fully supports these changes. They are extremely important and very urgent. I also thank Mr Sonik for his proposal to shorten the vacathio legis and to support this by all Members. There is really nothing to dwell on here about what happened, why. Indeed, a serious mistake was made in 2014, but in fact the whole geological law, which was introduced in 2011, because the vote was in 2011 and had been in force since 2012, the big amendments were incredibly fragmented and contradictory internally. This right was drafted by the Government of Law and Justice in 2007 and had at that time 36 pages clearly written, the law itself had 36 pages. At the moment, after its adoption with all its annexes, it has maybe 1000 pages. It's just... That's what needs to be changed. And this is the first stage. The next stages will be. A government proposal for major changes is about to come up in the future, which is precisely what the Member was just talking about, about simplifications and... There's gonna be a lot of simplification. I would also like to say that at the moment, probably tomorrow and if not next week, there will be two new forms that have not been made so far, tenders which are prepared by the Ministry of Environment, the main geologist of the country where there is a set of everything, the whole study, from geological construction, from... what we know, to environmental permits and arrangements with municipalities. So that when the investor comes, it's basically almost the second day that the search can begin, that is, the expectation of the process for opinion, etc., which really lasted for years, because it actually happened that it was waiting and that companies waited even over 900 days, even there was such a situation, it wouldn't be. In addition, we return, we will introduce in this new amendment, new government changes also the open door method, which is one that allows the investor to choose an investment area and, on the basis of this, the Ministry will conduct a tender very quickly, so it will be different forms of this only to accelerate investment, reduce investment risk. I would also like to remind you that for the first time in Poland, this form of tender was also carried out by the Law and Justice Government in 2006, 2007 for mining uses related to the exploration of hydrocarbons. So here, let's say, we're going in this direction to speed up investment and reduce investment risk. This profit, because risk and time are, of course, the costs, the costs. it is possible to share with the investor, i.e. the State can have a greater profit. We support this amendment and hope that it will be possible to vote very quickly. And on the basis of this, those who long this new law, those who will be long-awaited for decisions, will be able to obtain these concessions quickly because the tenders have already been carried out. In fact, all, many activities, activities related to... done. In fact, this amendment is therefore very urgent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u581	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u582	Position of the PSL Parliamentary Club concerning the draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and certain other laws. The proposal for a novel is due to the experience of the application of the revised Geological and Mining Law in 2014 and the problems that arise with its correct interpretation, sometimes preventing the proper conduct of proceedings in relation to activities involving the exploration, recognition and exploitation of hydrocarbons. It therefore appears necessary to introduce an independent legal basis for the modification of concessions and to revise the transitional provisions governing concessions granted under the provisions prior to the entry into force of the abovementioned Regulation. amendments, including cases concerning extremely important acquired rights, such as the law of the entity that discovered and documented the deposit, to obtain a concession to extract hydrocarbons from that deposit. The PSL Club welcomes the project submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u583	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 31 March. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u584	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The ability and cognitive capacity of CODE leaders brings to mind the situation described in one of Wisława Szymborska's column: In one of Chaplin's old comedies, he chops everything out of it with scissors to close the case. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u585	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jack Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u586	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! Today I address you from the Seym Council, bridesmaids and bridesmaids focused on the 15th Congress of the Association of Scouts of the Republic. I cordially greet you. and through the media, I ask you from the stand of the Sejm of the Lightest Republic to reflect with you on the eve of the beginning of the reunion on what are the challenges of scouting in contemporary Poland returning to the roots of its identity. In view of the time constraints, I will mainly use the slogans of the directions of action, hoping that during the congressional debates you will want to build this program with concrete methodological ideas. Point one: Christianity is the foundation of our identity. It seems obvious in the face of the invasion of two relativisms: axiological relativism and relativism, the elimination of their attitudes from scouting activities, the activity which has the task of shaping the desired silhouettes of citizens conscious, responsible, active and transparent in their actions. If I invoke in the first words an invocation to God, it is also due to the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. It is necessary to ask questions about the quality of the testimony of my faith, but it will be easier, the more zealous and more effective - in the sense of: adequate - in the face of temptations will be religious upbringing in a relationship. The Lord God, the confessed faith, should become a friend of everyday life, the strength and value that helps me to become better, but also better responsive to the needs of my fellowmen and the contemporary world. Second point: the love of the homeland is a fusion of emotional and rationality. Let us, bridesmaids and bridesmaids, build patriotic attitudes of our pupils, taking into account two components: emotional and cognitive. Let the fever of love of the homeland, borrowed from the awareness of the heritage of ancestors, intertwine with the pride of the present with what it is and becomes our Poland. Let this patriotism intertwine in the linen braid of Inka, the blue eyes of John Paul II, brave arms of our athletes and the successes of our science, culture and economy. Let scouting schnitz have the highest quality and awareness of who I am, who we are and what we share as a community. The third point: service for large and small matters resulting from the ever-increasing competences, skills and performance that will not be placed next to the mainstream of life, but will be in its epicenter. This is due to the awareness that we, Scouts, are not living, do not act only for ourselves, but through self-forming we are to be helpful to others. The key to this challenge is the sound management of its potential, youth, commitment to ensure that scouts do not obscure our lives, but in a complementary way it comes from life and returns to life. In this journey between here and there, we need the support of allies, which we have by nature: the parents of our Boy Scouts, former Boy Scouts. However, we must ensure that the Boy Scout's life model becomes an interesting, winning offer in a commercialized world. That's what I wish you. May this reunion lead you to these values. Bridesmaids and bridesmaids, watch out! [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u587	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Teresa Nolas, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u588	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From this point of view, I would like to approximate the importance of the problem concerning the landscape and economic losses of the area of Poland belonging to the network of the European Nature Conservation System Natura 2000, as the landscape is never an anonymous site. The landscape has its history, memory, continuity, is the most important element of the environment and has the strongest influence on us, so it should be protected first. I refer to this on the example of the landscape of the river basin of many Polish rivers, including areas of Lublin Voivodeship. Both Natura 2000 as a European network of nature protection systems built since 1992, to which as Poland we joined with our accession in 2004 as well as agricultural policy, or rather its consequences due to the lack of appropriate negotiations at the Copenhagen Summit by the then coalition government of SLD and PSL, have led to the current state of the Polish meadow and pasture areas. These consequences are the sad reality of vast meadows of dried grasses, creating - figuratively speaking - a bush of ghosts. While the protection of the area within the network does not preclude its economic use, any undertaking which can have a significant impact on the various elements of the network must be subject to an assessment of its impact on the protection of the facility. The most important thing here is the preservation of conservation areas in the Natura 2000 network, i.e. areas for special protection of birds and areas for special protection of habitats. That's why it's strange, though it shouldn't be, that there are wild boars entering the suburban spheres. The problem of the wild boar population in our country is a very serious and extremely costly problem for farmers, generating huge damage to their crops and due to the consequences of the ASF disease found and the bans and restrictions resulting from it. Additional burdens will affect the sphere of public expenditure, funds for compensation are extremely needed in line with the procedinated amendment of the Law on Hunting Law. Apart from these important economic aspects, an important element is still an element of the landscape, charming, Polish places and the lack of prospects for the implementation of projects in the indicated area by local government units of our country. Many of them have invested in task-technical documentation, cost-graphic projects and permits that have lost their power once they have given a higher reason to preserve protected areas. An important problem is the legal and administrative system chosen by Poland. The development of protection plans in Poland alone amounts to around EUR 60 billion. The annual maintenance is up to EUR 400 billion. That's surprising, because the effects of the human eye can't be seen. It would seem improbable, and yet we live in reality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u589	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. I invite Mr Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u590	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a programme implemented by the Government of Law and Justice since yesterday for the Polish industry, which is intended to cover not only large economic centres, but also smaller cities, with so far enormous untapped potential. The start of the program announced the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, Ms Beata Szydło, during yesterday's solemn signing of the purchase act by Huta Stalowa Wola and PIT-RADWAR, which was in the bankruptcy of Autosan's historical company. After the already adopted support programme for families, the family of 500+.The next real action of the current government, aimed at the development of the Polish industry. Polish companies will be supported under the "Economic+" programme, which on the one hand need government assistance and on the other hand guarantee that this support will be used effectively through the implementation of innovation and the creation of the highest quality products. The Polish government will support companies which, thanks to innovative technologies, will develop their potential, thus becoming competitive also in European markets. The announcement of the program "Gospodarka+" was not a coincidence in the Sanoc bus factory of Autosan, which since yesterday was signed in the presence of the Prime Minister became the property of other Polish companies with tradition and huge potential, namely Huta Stalowa Wola and PIT-RADWAR. This initiative not only saved jobs in Sanoku and stabilized the situation of workers who had lived in uncertainty for many years, but also started a new stage to enable the production of buses for military purposes and state-of-the-art civil vehicles meeting European standards. The commitment to this project of Steelworks Wola provides a good perspective for the factory. It is proof that the concepts in which the steelworks participates are a developmental one that was bought in 2012 by Huta Stalowa Wola of Jelcz, which was in a similar situation as Autosan in the course of the purchase. Over a relatively short period of time, the Lower Silesian factory managed to stabilise the financial situation and increase the number of jobs while ensuring long-term production. I am convinced that a similar perspective awaits the Sanocki Autosan. During her visit to Autosan, the Prime Minister assured that she would soon pay a visit to Stalowa Wola, due to the fact that the city perfectly fits into the economic strategy implemented by the current government. Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in his plan for responsible development emphasizes the need for Polish industry to flourish in the image of the Central Industrial District, and it is Stalowa Wola and Huta Stalowa Wola that are the pearl of the Central Industrial District and the child of the creator of COP, Prime Minister Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski. The fact that the Government of Law and Justice draws on this economic model is to ensure that the It is a guarantee that the potential of the Polish industry will be used in the maximum way. Finally, after many years of talking about the economy, it began to work because Polish industry, Polish companies and Polish entrepreneurs have huge potential, and the government of Law and Justice will develop this potential with great consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u591	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u592	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this statement, I would like to draw attention to the problem of the victims of World War II and the post-war period, so-called. children of war. This problem remains legally unregulated until today. During my parliamentary work, I took note of two such cases: Mrs Marianna Podgórska and Mr Stanisław Kopcia, people who need help in these matters. Marianna Podgórska from Prażma's house was born on 5 July 1942 in the village of Budziska, the district of Łukowski. Her resume is tragic. As a 2-month-old infant on 28 September 1942, she was executed together with 26 residents of the village of Budziska and Krzówka. She miraculously avoided death. Immediately thereafter, she lost both her parents: Father Wacław was arrested and murdered in 1942 in the German concentration camp Majdanek in Lublin, the mother of Bogusław died on April 25, 1945. As a 3-year-old child, Marianna Podgórska became an orphan. Since then, she has been solely on her own and the kindness of other people. These events made her childhood, youth, and life very difficult. In a short time, she lost her parents, her childhood, her health, and the possibility of a normal life. At present, Mrs. Marianna is 74 years old, ill and in need of medical attention. The monthly income he receives is at the level of the lowest pension. Despite so many unpleasant experiences, Mrs Marianna Podgórska is not a combatant, but a person to whom the provisions of the Veterans Act of 24 January 1991 apply. I would argue that Mrs Marianna's repeated efforts to obtain compensation for the traumatic experiences of World War II have not been achieved. Stanisław Kopeć, born in 1940, lost his father when he was only six months old. Mr Stanisław's father, including Stanisław, was imprisoned and consequently murdered by the Germans. Since his father's imprisonment and death, Mr. Stanisław Kopec no longer had a normal childhood and a normal life. His family was subjected to military and post-war repression as a result of his family's commitment to fighting for free and sovereign Poland. Mr Stanisław Kopec, despite his traumatic experiences, difficult childhood and youth, did not meet with the kindness of the authorities in their efforts to make amends. He is currently in a difficult health and material situation. It is maintained from the lowest pension, which is certainly not enough for a decent life, treatment and maintenance. I therefore ask the High House whether, in the light of the facts presented by me, Mrs Marianna Podgórska and Mr Stanisław Kopeć and others in a similar situation can count on the care and assistance of the Polish State. In my opinion, yes, because it is high time to lean on these problems as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u593	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Barbara Dziuk, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u594	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities. The purpose of the amendment is to amend the Law of 13 September 1996, in particular Article. 6e, which introduced the mandatory market for contracts and tenders organised by the municipalities, which in fact resulted in the liquidation of municipal companies dealing with the municipalities' own tasks. The simplifications that are in this bill were here because the tenders that were charged to the municipalities were problematic and created evil. The functioning of local government in Poland is opposed to the current government. Several examples from Silesia, one of the major regions in Poland. Self-governments boycott government work, rush to privatize health care institutions or health resorts, seek to repair municipal and municipal cash registers with bribery, recruit six-year-olds to schools, give their parents money prizes, laptops or offering them other material goods. They sabotage the task of raising funds for the modernisation and construction of kindergartens. In every possible way through the media, they run half-truths, scaring catastrophes in every reformed area. They scare the miners with unemployment, and pensioners with no benefits, spread apocalyptic visions about the 500+ programme, depreciate all the benefits of the reforms currently under way. The PO and PSL have so far ruled, without using the economic account. They created the so-called. Virtual accounting, so that on paper it's okay, financially charged to Poles. I have a question for the local government. Do they take their work seriously in cities, or in the Seyms, as a service to society? I mentioned the first irregularities on the shore that occurred to me, which concern local government officials. There are many more, and you will probably complete this list with your observations. Actually, it's not okay, and something needs to be done about it. A good change for Poland in local governments currently ruled by PO and PSL is needed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u595	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u596	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In November last year, a movement called the Committee for Democracy Defence started to be created in Poland, which is already organizing demonstrations in Poland as an association today, as well as outside the country. Under the slogans referring to the fight against the alleged threat of democracy, the members of the manifestation only contribute to increasing the level of negative emotions. Such action may only be considered harmful. The mere fact that the members of the committee have the right to organise their speeches and manifestations is a contradiction of the absurd theory about the bad state of Polish democracy. The right to demonstrate, including those unfavorable powers, is everyone's. However, it should be borne in mind that a few years ago, during the reign of this party, after which members of the CODE are speaking today, we have faced several incidents which can obviously be regarded as restricting freedom and civil liberties. There have been stops of coaches going to the Independence March in 2011, as well as attempts to obtain information about people who would travel by specific buses to march organized by Law and Justice in December 2012 or even to march in defence of Trwam Television. At that time present so-called. Democrats did not see the problem, evidently recognising all the obstacles, surveillance and legitimacy of those wishing to manifest themselves in accordance with the principles of democracy. The CODE was also silent when the previous power rejected opposition and civic projects or when they tried to limit freedom of speech. An example is the case of a blogger criticizing the activities of former President Bronisław Komorowski. It is also very disturbing to try to transfer enmity-like passwords beyond the borders of the country. The representatives of the CODE and the Civic Platform went beyond the borders of Poland to seek intervention in the case of Poland. During these trips, the false defenders of democracy mentioned above try to convince Members of the European Parliament to impose sanctions and restrictions on Poland. However, both the President and the members of the Sejm were elected in democratic elections, and the Party of Law and Justice achieved a result allowing independent, loyal governments to the nation through the support of citizens. Nevertheless, the members of the committee try to communicate to the entire Polish society, as well as to Europe information about the possibility of democracy in Poland only when the opposing party rules. Trying to defend Poles against democratically elected power. Demonstrators are trying to convince the public that any change they oppose is an attack on the government. It is also difficult to understand why the representatives of the CODE themselves, claiming that the current rulers cannot represent the whole society, claim themselves for such representatives by presenting Europe as being in line with the opinion of the general public. Of course, everyone has the right to be criticized, but attempts to manipulate the opinions of others are very dangerous. It is also dangerous to accumulate hostility, as some hateful comments of the members of the CODE regarding the accident of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda were shown. Members of the Democratic Defence Committee want change and demand to awaken Poles. However, Poles have already awakened, in 2015, choosing as their current representatives, based on democratic principles of power. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u597	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u598	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, we were celebrating an important anniversary. 94 years ago, during the reunion in Warsaw, representatives of the circles of the National Academic Youth Union established a new organization called the Academic Youth Union of All Poland. The founding convention of the All-Polish Youth accepted an ideal declaration in which issues relevant to both academic youth and the reborn state were addressed. In setting out the direction of the formation work, the All-Polish Youth announced the fight against cosmopolitan and class views, which meant the fight against the youth socialist and communist movement. The outbreak of World War II caused national youth focused on the All-Polish Youth to join the defence of their homeland. Then hundreds of activists of the All-Polish Youth were included in the ranks of the National Military Organization and the National Armed Forces. The organization raised several generations of Poles in the spirit of national and Catholic values. Not only politicians and social activists, but also doctors, lawyers and economists. Today, the Youth of All Poland is one of the largest and best organized youth organisations in Poland. On the occasion of the 94th anniversary of the Uprising of the All-Polish Youth, I wish all activists perseverance in building a great Poland. Hey, big Poland! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u599	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u600	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This year we celebrate the 736th anniversary of the location of Bochni. I am honored that at such an important time for Bochnia, I can look with you at the beautiful history of this city by giving the seat of a Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland. Bochnia is undoubtedly one of the most beautiful and oldest cities in Poland. Its location makes the southern part a hilly landscape, while the northern part occupies the plains, surrounded by the river Raba and located near the Niepołomice Forest. The first mention of the settlement called Bochnia dates back to 1198, when the then patriarch of Jerusalem Munich confirmed the giving of salt from this village for the monastery of the Miechów. Of course, it was the weighted salt obtained in Bochnia from salt sources. The breakthrough for the city was the year 1248, when the Willow Griffin officially reported the discovery of the deposits of stone salt in Bochnia. 5 years later, on 27 February 1253, the Duke of Cracow and Sandomierz Bolesław V, called the Shameful, issued an act of location in Korczyn where he allowed Bochnia to be founded on Magdeburg law with the privileges of Wrocław, whose legal arrangements became a model for Bochnia. The location of the city was a direct consequence of the discovery in the area of the Stone Salt Bochnia. The great times of the city are the times of King Casimir the Great. This excellent host organized the Bochean cottage, giving it mining ordination and expanding the cottage, in which he repeatedly visited with his manor house. In the 15th and first half of the 16th century, the city, located on important trade routes to Hungary and Russia, maintained economic and trade relations with many centres in the country. In the second half of the 16th century. Bochnia entered a period of deep crisis, which lasted throughout the 17th and 18th centuries. Later on, a period particularly difficult in history Bochnia is, of course, a period of German occupation. The Bochen post-war years are mainly significant economic development of the city, possible among others. the creation of new workplaces. The 736th anniversary of Bochni's location is not only a celebration of the city, but above all a celebration of all its residents and guests. In the case of this unique city also tourists and all visitors create a unique atmosphere. On the occasion of the city's birthday, I would like to congratulate the people of this unique place with heartfelt congratulations - you live in a special place. I wish the local authorities of Bochnia, as well as the people of Bochnia, another successful years of development. I wish that the decisions made best serve the city, and I wish Bochnia continued to attract investors, to develop dynamically. I wish all guests visiting Bochnia a pleasant time and unforgettable experience. God's blessings for the years to come! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-31-sejm-15-2.u601	Thank you very much, Member. Has anyone else made a statement? If not, we have concluded the point: Members' statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 1 April 2016 until 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 35]]
