ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on the secretaries of today's proceedings Agata Borowiec, Małgorzata Golinska, Piotr Luke Babiarz and Łukasz Schreiber. Piotr Łukasz Babiarz and Łukasz Schreiber will be in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Łukasz Schreiber. I consider the minutes of the 29th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. At its 29th meeting, the Sejm did not vote on the motion to reject the parliamentary draft law on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal, print No 963. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including this vote. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other Acts, - amending certain laws to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs. The designs are 991 and 994 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - to prevent unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products, - the declaration of the Statute of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, drawn up in Madrid on 13 September 1983. Reports are 983 and 979 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, - amending the Retail Tax Act, - amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws, - amending the Animal Protection Act, - amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed 1005, 1007, 919, 986, and 1008, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on draft laws: - the declaration of the Statute of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, - on the Commission's reports on ratifications contained in prints 947 and 948. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the road and motorway construction programme and the tenders for the construction of roads and motorways, which was proposed by the Modern Poselski Club. The agenda items of the current sitting of the Sejm will be dealt with in accordance with the order of opinion of the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u2	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 9.15, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10, - National Defence together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11.15, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 11.30, - Justice and Human Rights together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - at 3 p.m. 12, - Legal notice - hour. 12, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 12.30, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - Culture and Media - hour 13, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13, - Health-- hour. 13, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13.30, - to Energy and Treasury together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 2.30 p.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 15, - Economy and Development - h.m. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 15, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 16, - Public Finance - hour. 16, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Infrastructure - hour 17, - Public Finance - hour. 5:30 p.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 5:30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 18, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 18. In addition, the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Solutions to Drug Addiction Problems - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group on Autism - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: people with visual impairment - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Protection of the Białowieża Forest - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: public health - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Opposite and Troubleshooting Obesity Problems - h. 16, - Parliamentary Team for the construction of the expressway S6 Szczecin - Gdańsk - h. 4:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Team for Decent, Community and Inclusive Organising in 2018 of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining Independence - hour. 18. The President of the Parliamentary Animal Friends Group invites you to the opening of the exhibition entitled: Animal breeding in order to obtain fur in Poland, at 10 p.m. 11 in the lobby in front of the O.R. Jack Kuronia in the new House of Parliament. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds (prints No. 791 and 956). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I present to the High House a report on the work of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds, prints 791 and 956. In August 2016, the above draft law of the Marshals of the Sejm sent it to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The first reading of this draft law took place on 14 September this year. A subcommittee has been set up. The subcommittee met twice at its meetings, presented a report to the Agriculture Committee on 21 October and on 21 October the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development decided that the High House should adopt a draft law. What is this bill about? The Act on Promotion Funds, the Act amending the Act on Agri-Food Promotion Funds, concerns the amendment of the Act of 2009. In 2009, the High House adopted this law. The Act was intended to support agricultural marketing, increased consumption and promotion of agri-food products. Nine promotion funds have been set up for this purpose. I'll zoom in and exchange those funds. These are funds to promote milk, pork meat, beef, horse meat, sheep meat, grain and cereal products, fruit and vegetables, poultry meat and the last fund - fish. High Izbo! Promotional funds are collected in funds - from the write-downs that agricultural producers bring to these products. The amount of such write-down shall be calculated on the net value sold and shall be 0,1%. net values. These are, High Izbo, not a lot of money, their number grows year by year. As of today, you can say, for last year this amount already exceeded PLN 50 million for all these funds. We started with the amount of about PLN 30 million collected from this write-down. Now this amount exceeds PLN 50 million. The Minister at the committee meeting in the explanatory memorandum, because this is a government project on the need for change, has raised the fact that it is the entities which pay the said contributions, i.e. producers, farmers, who have asked for a change in the rules of spending these funds, as well as a change in the compositions of the committees which each fund directs. I just want to remind you that every fund has a responsibility to spend this money on a special committee set up. And so far, this committee consisted of four producers' representatives - it is 9-person - four processors' representatives and one representative of the agricultural chambers. In this bill, the number of committee members does not change, but the proportions of these committees change, the government proposed it, and the committee accepted it: we increase the number of producers' representatives from four to five, and we reduce the number of processors - from four to three. Agricultural chambers shall have one representative in each committee, in each promotion fund. And it was the producers who argued that the changes should be such that the funds that are collected on these funds are devoted to specific support for agricultural marketing, increased consumption and promotion of agri-food products produced by processors from products supplied by agricultural producers. High Izbo! The work of the subcommittee was very actively attended by producers' representatives and industry associations active in the various promotion funds. That's, among other things. in this joint discussion at the subcommittee meeting, we have drawn up proposals for changes, which are the following. Firstly, the first change - I think that a very important change - is to make payments to fund the promotion of agri-food products of operators who carry out both the breeding or breeding of pigs, cattle for fattening, sheep and poultry, and in parallel the economic activity in the field of slaughter which they have just mentioned, whether of pigs or of cattle, sheep or poultry. To date, those entities which had such a closed cycle, High Izbo, that is to say, led to and carried out slaughter and processing, of this 0,1% they didn't pay off to those funds. This law, which will enter into force from the new year, these entities with this fee, includes this obligation. In accordance with the committee or the subcommittee's work, we have recognised that this is a very good change and that it is a duty for these actors, when it comes to such payments, to oblige them to do so. The next amendment aims to provide the possibility of financing or co-financing from the Fund for programmes and activities relating to fish and their processed products by the entities from which the payments to the Fund for the Promotion of Fish come. The Fish Promotion Fund is one of the smaller funds in terms of the resources being paid out and so far not all the expectations of the operators that produce fish have been met. This change will allow them to be taken into account. A further amendment is introduced in Article. 12 in the paragraph. 1 in point 6, the definition of a new task which is assigned in the Act mentioned to 9-person committees managing individual promotion funds. This new task is to develop promotion strategies for individual sectors so that promotion policies in each fund are coherent, dynamic, unambiguous and well-targeted, tailored to the needs of the sector concerned. We have heard such voices that unfortunately there have been situations that without this obligation, without this strategy, the funds from promotion funds have not always been deliberately spent. Another amendment concerns, High Izbo, a transitional period to meet the requirements for the place of birth of the pig meat from which the promotion fund will be supported by information and promotion programmes. This time limit will be 31 December 2018. This transitional period is intended to facilitate the adjustment of the meat production cycle in such a way that after 31 December 2018 support from the funds will be available for all information and promotion measures concerning pig meat from animals which were raised and slaughtered in the territory of the Republic of Poland - but the condition will also be the place of birth: these animals will have to be born in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We know that many piglets are being imported to Poland from outside our homeland, outside Poland. They are of course buried and slaughtered in Poland and by 2018 the funds from promotion funds will be available for this purpose, but after 31 December 2018 apart from the fact that they also raise and slaughter will take place in this territory, it will still be necessary to fulfil this obligation that these animals must be born in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As I said at the beginning, the work of the subcommittee and the commission, apart from the representatives of the Ministry, actively involved stakeholders, trade unions, because it was in response to their demands that this draft law was created. As a result of the joint discussion, as a result of a broad discussion, we have prepared a draft law - we present it to the High House - contained in print No. 956. On behalf of this committee, I ask the High House to adopt this draft law and to adopt a new law on agri-food promotion funds. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u5	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Richard Bartosik, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u6	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position on the Act amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds, print No 791. High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Law of 22 May 2009 responds to the proposals made by entities that make contributions to promotion funds. Operators of agri-food products have requested that their funds be paid to support agricultural marketing, increased consumption and promotion of agri-food products. The main objective of creating promotion funds is to promote marketing. The Act sets out the scope of actions which may be financed by promotion funds, i.e. exhibitions, fairs, market research and research aimed at improving the quality of products and increasing their consumption. In addition, training of producers and processors is supported. Funds may also be used to finance so-called funds. the contribution of industry organisations to one of the common agricultural policy mechanisms. The funds from the promotion fund are not public funds. They shall be managed by representatives of professional organisations who form separate management committees for each fund. The project proposes a solution whereby funds from the Funds will be used to finance and co-finance promotion programmes eligible for support from the European Union. The proposed statutory amendment sets out the requirements for the agri-food product at the same time. Generally speaking, such a product must be manufactured in the territory of the Republic of Poland. High Izbo! In order to increase the impact of agri-food producers on the way funds are spent, it is proposed that fund managers increase the number of people from four to five to producers and reduce the number of processors in these committees from four to three, which will have a significant impact on the greater representation of producers. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like the High Sejm to adopt a law proposed by the government, print No. 791. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u7	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the club on behalf of the Civic Platform club in connection with the government draft law amending the agri-food promotion funds law, print No. 956. In the applicant's view, the draft of this law in the government's submission boils down to the management of these funds better than so far, of course after the amendment of this law has been implemented. The very important fact is that these accumulated funds are not public funds within the meaning of the Public Resources Act, but are industrial funds collected in individual industry accounts directly concerned. I'd like to say that this bill... Its main task, the main task of this law, is to, with the help of management committees, which are created from individual entities, increase, increase human consumption, all of us, individual species, types of products which are described at the same time by the promotional fund. Of course, this increase in consumption, awareness of Poles can be done in various ways. There are different methods and mechanisms to increase this, in a palette of advertising or in a palette of different stimuli. I would like to make it clear that, ladies and gentlemen, the news is that you have not introduced the great state here despite the rapporteur's announcement. I would also like to say that you have changed the number of management committees in terms of internal numbers. You've tilted the scales... [[Voice from the room: at the producer. Yes, sir.]] ...for the benefit of producers and for the smaller benefit of processors. Is that gonna change the main target? According to farmers, yes, agricultural producers - yes, according to processors - do not. Life will show who's right. I, too, personally am in favour of moving towards farmers. Let's give them a chance. But what I'm trying to say is, it's not that easy. I think that because these are not public funds, we should give them more freedom to use these funds. I would also like to say that the rapporteur's colleague spoke about the strategy, about increasing... About strategy. [[Writing strategy.]] It's probably just a pun, because I can't imagine any fund that doesn't meet the goals that it's gonna set. The goal is clear - increasing consumption, mainly Polish products. That's what I think. This fund should not operate in other products, other origins. I also wanted to say one very important thing that you have not given up on the change in the article. 2 (2) 1 for the term of office. I don't know if this is an epidemic of these changes in Law and Justice. If you're making a change... Let the grenades that manage there go out in a pressureless, democratic, authentic way. You must always, in order to say this, revolutionaryly approach, with distrust of the current governing bodies. I do not know whether such a change is precisely necessary, but I would like to say that we have tabled an amendment on this issue, which deletes the whole of the article. 2 (2) 1 and paragraph 1. 2. There is cadence, you should give the opportunity to develop management in new, different conditions. Of course, the issue of a transitional period for pork meat cannot be overlooked. It's well done, in terms of the position on that accent. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear that the Civic Platform Club makes its position conditional on the adoption of this amendment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And what position it will be, you will know in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u9	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. The main objective of setting up funds is to achieve an increase in consumption of Polish agri-food products. Funds may finance a wide range of activities such as participation in fairs and exhibitions and their organisation, market research, research and development to improve the quality of products. These measures are consequently intended to lead to the basic objective which I have already mentioned, namely the increase in consumption of products. Has this objective been achieved for 7 years the current law has been in force? As the CUS data shows, not necessarily. The consumption of agri-food products varies but is not significant in the long term. A stronger trend is seen in the consumption of poultrymeat, the consumption of which is increasing year by year, mainly due to price. However, the opposite situation is in the case of beef, which has a downward trend in consumption. According to the justification of the project, the reason why amendments to the present law were decided were numerous requests for a change in the functioning of promotion funds. The conclusion is one - the money was wrongly spent. It should be considered whether the changes proposed in the project are sufficient to restore the original idea and direction to the promotion funds. In my opinion, the bill tries to fix the problem to a very limited extent, fragmentedly. A comprehensive and in-depth look at the current law and the effects of the solutions proposed in the project is needed. During my work in committee, I have tabled proposals for amendments, which have not met with the approval of representatives of the Ministry, which would certainly contribute to improving the spending of funds and the promotion of Polish agri-food products. The first amendment aims to focus programmes and actions undertaken by promotion funds exclusively on the promotion of products produced and derived from ingredients manufactured in the territory of the Republic of Poland. This purpose is aimed at reducing the amount of ingredients in a processed product other than from the territory of the Republic of Poland from 25 registered in the project to 10, which still seems to be a very large share of raw materials from abroad. Since the funds collected in funds come exclusively from Polish farmers, they should be entirely devoted to the promotion of Polish products rather than Greek, Spanish, Italian products. The second arrangement is intended to ensure that only persons representing natural persons who have been resident in the territory of the Republic of Poland for at least 5 years or who represent legal persons in which more than half of the shares belong to natural persons who have resided in the territory of the Republic of Poland for at least 5 years. I will repeat the words often used by Mrs Szydło and Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki: capital has nationality. In my opinion, the far-reaching caution of the Ministry and some of the parliamentarians is not indicated in this case. Either we are in favour of the full support of Polish products produced by Polish companies, or we are satisfied with half-measures, considering the risk that the solutions proposed by the government will not be sufficient to ensure the proper functioning of the funds, and - as is the case today - promotion funds will exist, they will spend money to farmers, without harming anyone, but also helping. Is an institution acting in such a form therefore necessary to anyone at all? This is a decision that I would like to ask your Members to consider while making the amendments I have discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u11	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u12	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Funds for the promotion of agri-food products were created under the May 2009 Act. Eight of them were created: milk, pork, beef, horse, sheep, grain of cereals, cereal products, fruit and vegetables and poultry meat and fish. Support for promotional or information campaigns may be requested by associations of producers of the agricultural sector concerned. Participation in this mechanism allows organisations to obtain a refund of up to 80% net amounts of costs actually incurred for the implementation of promotion and information activities - up to 50% appropriations come from the European Union budget, 30% from the national budget - the remaining 20% represents the organisation's own contribution. It is a good idea that funds from agri-food promotion funds should be allocated to information activities and promotion of products produced by Polish producers and processors making payments to these funds. The idea is not that the funds should support products from imports, but not enough to promote products from Polish farmers, which was signalled by farmers' organisations and trade unions. Funds are intended to cover promotion measures for agri-food products produced in Poland and, in the case of processed products, promotion may apply to those used for production not more than 25% ingredients originating outside Poland, mainly food additives. Of course, we view this as a positive change. In the course of the work on the Law adopted in May 2009, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development was in receipt of requests for the creation of further promotion funds, inter alia. Ecological Food Promotion Fund - Eko Mazovia Eco Food Manufacturers and Processors Association or Beekeeping Promotion Fund - Polish Bee Association. At the first reading of the project, there was a voice on the difficulty in raising funds for the niche related to the promotion of vegetables. I am referring here to the speech of a representative of the Association of Producers of Paprika of the Republic of Poland. Mr Bogucki himself mentioned the appropriate proportions applied to each of these funds. It is important not to forget about the promotion of organic food, but also about the promotion of products that are not mainly of animal origin. Organic food has support for European Union funds, but it is much less money than those with promotion funds. The main task of organic farming is to ensure the quality and protection of the entire environment in which agriculture operates, to produce high quality foods in a very diverse environment and to ensure the welfare of animals. When introducing amendments to the Act, it is worth considering the role of funds in promotion in the context of ecology and environmental protection, as well as what should be promoted and in what proportions as part of state policy. Let us not forget that ethical, social and environmental aspects are increasingly important for Polish consumers. Today's decisions will also have an impact on the marketing strategies used on the Polish market for organic food. As regards the change in the membership of the Promotion Funds Management Boards, which many Members have mentioned here, i.e. the increase in the number of producers' representatives from four to five and the reduction in the number of processors' representatives from four to three, this should be summarised in such a way that the aim for producers and processors is the same, i.e. selling as much as possible, and it is important that any changes in this area do not interfere with liquidity in the right, beneficial for the promotion of Polish food management funds. But I don't think that's the right direction. Despite these comments, Poselski Club Modern is in favour of further work in the committee on the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u13	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Minister Marek Sawicki, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party a position regarding changes to the Act on agri-food promotion funds. Both the rapporteur and the previous speakers reminded that the law was passed in May 2009 and that it was a natural response to demand in terms of promoting Polish food, and not only was it limited to promoting Polish food in Poland, but it was also promoting Polish food in export to external markets, because the issue of increasing the consumption of food products in Poland is hope, of course, also of farmers and processors, because we want consumers not to arrive, but is decreasing. Unfortunately, that's the demographic. And what I thought at the time was the essence of setting up these promotion funds, however, is mainly the creation of a system of product promotion in exports. And I do not agree with Mr Sachaika that this money was wrongly spent because, first, the rapporteur pointed out that in 2010 the impact on these funds was very little more than PLN 30 million, but already in 2015 it exceeded 50. Not because the discipline of the flow of these funds has increased, but above all because production, sales and exports have increased. And this export in 2007 was in the range of EUR 10 billion, and in 2015 it already exceeded EUR 25 billion, EUR 25 billion with a positive balance sheet of over EUR 7 billion. So these slogans are important: promotion of the domestic product, about national economic aspects, but in a situation where more than 32% of Polish food is exported and we are still a country looking for new markets, it is worth to use this term sparingly, so to speak, to operate. Once again, in 2007, outside the European Union, the countries to which we were selling were less than 27. In 2015, it was already more than 71 countries from all over the world outside the European Union. And it would be good for this dynamic to continue. What bothered me about this year's GUS data is that in the first half of this year we have had a decline in export dynamics of agri-food products for the first time in 10 years, and this is a decrease of more than 6%. In 2015, exports for the first half of the year had a positive balance of EUR 3.8 billion, this year - only EUR 3.4 billion. So there is some concern on the market related to export and promotion of Polish food. I'm not questioning the proposed changes. I wouldn't even be afraid, unlike Mr Aichler, of remodeling the board of directors. The period of 7 years of operation of promotion funds has allowed considerable experience and farmers, and processors, so it is possible to make an evaluation and possibly some adjustments in order to make export dynamics much higher. My concern, however, is the provision, the proposal to reduce promotion funds to promote only Polish food products in a situation where these promotion funds have also opened the way for us to reach for funds from the European Union budget. Not from the Rural Development Programme, but from these additional funds to promote European food in the world. At a time when Poland did not have these promotion funds, our entities, our processors' organisations and producers did not apply for these EU funds. When the funds came in, we became the leader in using EU funds to promote European food, of course, by promoting Polish food first and foremost. So I think it would be worthwhile for the government to examine whether this would limit access to EU promotional measures. If it doesn't limit, I'm in favour of getting those records in place. In conclusion, after seven years, I clearly want to say that promotion funds [[♪ The bell ♪]] they have played their part, but as all this requires ongoing analysis, evaluation and correction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I have the honour to present a position towards the government draft law amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds, prints No. 791 and 956. The aim of the promotion funds is to promote marketing, increased consumption and promotion of agri-food products. To this end, the Act sets out activities: participation in exhibitions and fairs, conducting market research on individual products, research and development to improve the quality of products and to increase their consumption, as well as training and participation in the work of specialised producers and processors, which may be financed by promotion funds. The funds collected in the accounts of the funds shall be collected in the form of a tribute to the marketing of agri-food products paid by producers. Therefore, it is impossible to disagree with the fact that if someone is giving money, he expects a greater influence on what happens to the fruits of his work. We believe that taking into account the demands of stakeholders in this area is a very good decision. In view of the changes made to the rules on financing and co-financing of promotion and information programmes, it is a good solution to introduce transitional provisions that will allow programmes operating on the date of entry into force of the amendment to the Act to benefit from support under the existing rules. Management committees shall decide on the financial allocation of promotion funds for specific tasks included in the annual financial plans. Since the amendment of the Act will change the proportion of the number of members of the agri-food promotion funds management committees by reducing the number of members selected by producer organisations and processors in favour of the former, it is necessary to select new compositions of the management committees. It is important in this situation to define clear criteria and how to choose. In our view, the new arrangements proposed by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development regarding the procedure for submitting candidates for the members of the agri-food promotion funds management committee and the way in which they are selected meet this criterion. Your Marshal, High Izbo, the Free and Solidarni Circle will support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u17	Thank you very much, sir. Members have joined the task of questioning. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I close the list of Members. Mr Marek Kwitek, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to ask a question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed amendments to the Act are expected and supported by agricultural producers. The mechanisms used so far raised doubts as they preferred processors rather than producers. The increase in the number of producers' representatives in the fund management committees is therefore recognised because the burden of creating the fund lies with them. The agri-food promotion funds have been in place since 2009. Since the beginning of existence they have accumulated the amount of PLN 316 million. I have questions for the Minister. How does the Minister assess the effectiveness of the use of funds for the purposes set out? Has the Ministry analysed how promotional measures have affected the increase in sales of Polish products on domestic and foreign markets when there is a problem of low prices on most agri-food markets and overproduction? Will the mechanisms introduced in the Act secure, according to the Minister [[♪ The bell ♪]] , the interests of producers in relations with processors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Promotion funds in recent years have played a huge positive role in the expansion of Polish food and have contributed to the commercial result, to this huge surplus and to the fact that Poland stands out internationally in this respect. Without these funds, it would not be possible to carry out economic missions, trade fairs, promotional measures, especially on external markets, because we are an export-oriented country. Such measures do not have an agricultural resort or have individual agencies, and even more so do not have market operators. That is why these funds have made it possible to present, show Polish food in many places around the world - sometimes very exotic, far away. They have also played a very important role in opening up, enabling exports of Polish products to individual markets. Thanks to these funds we were visible at many fairs, in many economic missions and the biggest events in the world, and you can see to this day. This is a very positive role of these funds. The question is: Wouldn't changing the law make these huge funds from the European Union, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will they be detained? Will it not be a concern that Poland will stop so expansively, intensively promote its products on external markets when it comes to multiplying it with EU funds? And let me remind you that the ratio was: 20% - national contribution, 80% - EU funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u21	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, I also think that promotion funds are needed. Thanks to them we can present ourselves as Poland, we can present Polish products. My question is a little bit different. This is definitely related to the amendment of this law, because many farmers said that the measures were badly distributed, that we did not necessarily promote Polish products. It was simply said that we promoted foreign products, including meat. My question, Minister: Is this true? If so, to what extent did we promote non-Polish products from promotion funds, which are made up exclusively of Polish farmers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u23	Thank you very much. Here you go, Margaret Navel, Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The revised legislation involves a greater representation of agricultural producers, farmers in promotion fund management committees. According to the draft law, the aim is for agri-food producers to benefit more from their contributions to the funds. They will have a greater impact through more participation in committees than processors. Minister, it cannot be fully accepted that farmers, producers, are in accordance with the applicable law deprived of influence on the shape and allocation of funds. They are undoubtedly co-decided. Committees are appointed to four years' term of office. Therefore, I have a question to the Minister: If the Act is to enter into force on 1 January 2017, when does the term of office of the current committees end, which have already adopted most of the financial plans for the following year? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the amendments to the Act affect the shortening of their term of office and will the adopted financial plans be modified by the new management committees of promotion funds? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u25	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amended Act on agri-food promotion funds is, in my opinion, a very important law. In the age of huge competition in the area of agri-food products, the flooding of our market by products of foreign origin, while production by our native food producers of very good quality, in many cases better than foreign products, it is very important that promotional measures, informational measures can be directed at those products which were produced in Poland, generally from animals that were born and bred in our country. This information is very important to consumers. Unfortunately, in many cases we are being misled. We feel that we are buying Polish agri-food products, and in fact they do not have much in common with their native origin. My question concerns the verification and control mechanisms that are foreseen to be used to ensure that product promotion [[♪ The bell ♪]] fulfilling the conditions of the Act shall not be abused. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u27	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Mr Leszek Korzeniowski, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of us here still remember that when we passed the Promotion Act in 2009, there were different voices, and the producers reacted differently. Minister, is the change on the board, in this structure of managing individual funds, good? Is it good to introduce more producers? I don't quite agree with that. This work also lasted in 2009. Then we also wondered what it would look like. However, in my opinion processors have a much greater impact on promotion than producers. Was everything in this bill wrong? One could see that this promotion fund has not helped us in any way. And here I am really worried about what Minister Sawicki said, whether it will be possible to use European funds for this type of scheme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] constructions. And besides, it's kind of another attempt, I get the impression, Minister, that it's another attempt to take over another agricultural institution by the currently ruling coalition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u29	Thank you very much. Minister Zbigniew Babalski will answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Leszek Korzeniowski, it is good that these are only fears, because they are only fears. There is no reason to doubt that EU funds, together with national measures, cannot work together and that there is a threat. [[The basics are.]] So I immediately explain that there is no such threat, these EU funds will be used as effectively as national funds. I thank you at all for the discussion of this law, also for these proposals, for some, as well as for the club speeches. Mr Aichler, a representative of the Civic Platform, had doubts about the changes - and not just Mr Aichler - concerning the cadence, the composition of the committee, although he said here that he was in favour of more producers. So I also answer a few Members here who discussed the change in proportion: five producers, three processors and one representative of the Chamber. One could simply say this: this law is submitted by the government as a result of discussions at meetings mainly with producers. And I would like to remind you that it is primarily producers who pay for this promotion fund, and it seems appropriate that producers may not be decisively and overwhelming in terms of composition, representatives, but have a strong impact on how the funds will be distributed. This fund works for seven years. I share the views of the former minister. There is no criticism of the operation of this fund within 7 years, while there are comments. And over these remarks, Minister, we just lean forward. Thank you for your comment on the attempt to make a change. I think it's going in the right direction. Time will, of course, also show if it will be the next seven-year period, we will see. Like any law, this will also be properly monitored, and if there are any complications, we will certainly lean on it. As to the possibility, Mr Sachaiko said that whether this law really only and only a Polish product must... Well, if we are using EU funds, there may be some components that are not in Poland, sir, and they have to be, for example, to improve the tastes of a given product. I have calculated it, I will not read it all, but this is the situation, because you conclude that it is up to 10%, that there are examples of Polish traditional products that contain ingredients that do not exist in Poland and with such participation, e.g. doves with rice - approx. 15% rice, buttercup cake - bakali, ca. 30%, świętomarciński crogal - a product with a protected geographical indication, sweets containing palm oil, coconut oil, coconut cake, jewish carp. This is just a few examples, which is why we will try to maintain a 25% contribution, even for two reasons. The first is that we do not have this component and it is in products that are produced in Poland, and secondly, I repeat, if we use EU funds, it is practically, if producers are in Poland and processors are in Poland with a 25% contribution, it seems to me that this is enough promotion of the Polish product. Mrs Lieder mentioned here a rather important factor - the promotion fund for organic farming. Madam President, I inform you that this programme is already being implemented, so we are not running away from it, it is not that we leave organic farming to promote itself. It's called. The Eco-Europe programme - quality and tradition, and with a few funds, not one, but with a few funds go to ensure that this programme is implemented. I'm going back to Mr Sawicki. Mr President, you were talking about data from the first half of the year. You are a strong politician, and you know very well that the second half of the year, when it comes to exports, is always much better than... [[I was comparing it to the first of last...]] I understand, but you have this data from the first half of the year, and we have the data by the end of October. I want to reassure you that this level will be at least the same as last year. It should also be stressed here that there is a chance that this advantage, this positive balance of agri-food products, will remain at about PLN 7 billion. That's what we have at the end of October. I hope nothing terrible will happen in the last two months and the situation will not get worse. You asked about EU funds. You'll be able to combine it. I will say more, it is not only the fund that is submitted by producers, it is EU funds, but also the possibility of using the RDPs in terms of the promotion fund. This is in the context of what Mr Maliszewski also asked, so I think that this answer should satisfy you. Mrs Płępek - committees for 4-year terms. When does it end? There is no Member. So the bill provides that within a month. The Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2017 and within a month, i.e. by the end of January, the organisations should notify their representatives, i.e. producers, processors and agricultural chambers. We assume that by the end of June, in order to pass this change gently, all the warehouses will be set up by the end of June as regards those nine promotion funds that are currently in operation. Who will control this - Mr Szulowski. The Agricultural Market Agency will take care of it. I referred to Mr Korzeniowski. Mr Marek Kwitek - evaluation of the functioning of the funds. I would say so, Mr President, that these funds have enabled industry organisations to raise funds for the so-called ones since 2010. the own contribution required for the implementation of the EU-funded campaign. These solutions resulted in an increase of interest in the Polish product, but also - Polish industry organizations participating in EU promotional policy, not only in the country, which has contributed to the multiplication of the effect of promotional funds and the promotion of Polish products themselves. I think, Marshal, I've been trying to answer all my questions. If something is not said, we will reply in writing, possibly individually, if there are reports. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Finally, a good response from the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the rapporteur of the committee want to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u32	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will only refer to some doubts raised here, because the Minister has dealt with everything in detail. You have not paid attention to this country, even by the words of Mr Aichler, that we have not changed much in this law. That's what you used. I think that the very important thing that we have introduced -- was the full agreement in the committee -- is to impose an obligation to pay these contributions to producers... [[That's right.]] ...and entrepreneurs - at the same time, because they are also producers, and entrepreneurs who carry out an economic activity in the field of breeding and slaughter of pigs, cattle, sheep and poultry. They're big companies. They produce, produce, but in a closed cycle they also slaughter and process. So far, some businesses and producers, but also not producers, have not paid 0.1% off. for this fund, a few funds, because it's going to be two, three, four funds. This was the result of the discussion at the committee meeting. We're making a big change. I think we're gonna make a significant contribution to the funds that I mentioned here, by means of these contributions. As for the strategy, I also disagree with Mr Aichler's assessment that this is a pun. Absolutely not. What is being implemented within the Fund, as it seems, will be included in this strategy. This will certainly only increase the sense and purpose of the funds spent and will not interfere. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u33	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on agricultural and livestock insurance (prints Nos 469 and 838). I ask Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance from print No. 469. The aim of the project is to improve the agricultural insurance system by providing farmers with wider access to agricultural insurance with State subsidies to agricultural insurance premiums by introducing increased tariff rates. The project entered the Sejm on April 26th. and was addressed to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 29 April. The first reading of the above draft took place at the committee meeting on 9 June this year, where an extraordinary subcommittee was set up to consider the above draft. Sub-committee at meetings on 21 July and 5 September this year. considered the draft and produced a report. The subcommittee's report was examined on 13 September this year. The Commission has adopted a report which is being discussed today. During the work of the subcommittee, proposals for amendments were tabled, including proposals for amendments. concerning the new wording of the mouth. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3. The new wording of the paragraph. 5 concerned the introduction of a new sixty-day period during which the risk of agricultural drought, i.e. the period from 21 March to 20 May, will be monitored. The introduction of a new sixty-day period is linked to the monitoring of agricultural drought of water resources from the winter period, which contribute to the enrichment of soil information in the first decades of the vegetation period. Adding a sixty-day period will improve the agricultural drought monitoring system. Following the introduction of the new sixty-day period, a new definition of drought has also been given, which will take into account the monitoring of drought during the period from 21 March. The wording of the definition: drought will therefore mean damage caused by a drop in the climatic water balance below the value specified for each crop species and soil during any period from 21 March to 30 September. A proposal from the Polish Insurance Association was also addressed to the subcommittee, which considered that certain provisions of the Act could restrict the insurance offer to agricultural producers and could therefore increase the State's expenditure on direct aid to injured agricultural producers in the future. As a rule, printing project 469 did not cause much controversy. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development adopted the report as a result of the subcommittee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u35	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Marek Kwitek, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government's draft amendment to the Law on agricultural and livestock insurance, print Nos 469 and 838. It concerns the improvement of the agricultural insurance system by providing farmers with a wider availability of agricultural insurance with State subsidies for insurance premiums. Drought, hail, floods, drowning, frosts, heavy rain or other natural disasters are a constant threat to agricultural production. After each occurrence of massage of these phenomena, the problem of insurance returns. The victims then expect State aid. Insurance companies, too, do not want to cover any disaster that can cover a larger area of the country because they are afraid of financial losses. Unfortunately, a large proportion of farmers are not insured because contributions are high and they simply cannot afford it, so they take such risks. In 2015, 144 000 of them benefited from crop insurance. farmers and 426 bought livestock insurance. The draft law on the amendment of the Act on agricultural and livestock insurance is a response to problems arising from the low level of agricultural insurance in Poland. In a situation of various kinds of emergency events, the absence of such insurance causes, on the one hand, significant losses for farmers, on the other hand, the need for exceptional State aid in this respect. In order to ensure an adequate level of insurance protection for agricultural producers, a comprehensive and universal insurance system should be established, taking into account farmers' profitability and often lack of it, and the budgetary capacity of the country. The insurance model must include three stakeholders: farmers wishing to be insured, a government that secures the State's budget for insurance subsidies, so that they are viable and bearable by the farmer, and insurance companies to be a partner in the scheme. The aim of the amendment is to ensure better protection of agricultural production by increasing the insurance cover of agricultural crops, which will lead to an increase in the number of insurance contracts concluded and a reduction in the risk of production. The draft law proposes to increase the tariff rates for agricultural producers to receive subsidies from the state budget from the current 3.5%, 5% and 6% crop insurance values up to 9% , with the possibility of increasing them to 12% and 15% for crops on weaker soils where the risk of crop losses is significantly higher. Such tariff rates are intended to ensure that an agricultural insurance contract can be concluded with State aid also on these land, which will benefit farmers. Currently, a significant proportion of the tariff rates exceed 6% of the amount of agricultural insurance, which affects the lack of adjustment of State subsidies to insurance premiums. The current rules only allow for state grant insurance for fruit and vegetable crops with rates of insurance above 6% insurance. The draft law introduces preferences for the conclusion by farmers of a package agreement of all risks to which a surcharge of up to 65% of the premium is applied, provided that the proposed maximum tariff rates are not exceeded. Where an insurance premium is fixed above 9%, 12% and 15% the aid would apply only to this level, while the remaining part of the contribution would be paid by the agricultural producer in full. In concluding single risk insurance contracts or in combination several selected risks after exceeding the above tariff rates, the aid will not be granted. And here, Your Marshal, in this matter, the Law and Justice Club is making amendments that will somehow allow for subsidies and a solution to this problem. I'm making these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u37	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u38	As regards livestock insurance, aid would be granted to agricultural producers of 65% contributions where the insurance undertaking determines the total rates of animal insurance not exceeding 0,5% the amount of insurance. Implementation of the Act requires securing in the state budget for 2017 an increase in the financial resources from PLN 200 million this year up to PLN 926 million. In 2020 this would be a total of PLN 1621 million. This would therefore be an eightfold increase compared to the current amount of subsidies. The changes made to the insurance scheme would apply from 1 January 2017. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government's draft amendment to the Law on Agricultural Insurance and Farm Animals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u39	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government bill amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance was sent to the Sejm as early as April this year. As the rapporteur said, the first reading in the agriculture committee took place in June. The subcommittee has been called. It was only after the summer that the project was further processed, but - it is not known for what reason - hung in the vacuum before the second reading. If you don't know why, it's usually about money. Probably 900 million more for agricultural insurance subsidies was not easy to find in the budget for the following year's year, which is already shaking heavily in its sutures. Today, when the project has had second reading, we can say: finally - finally, because if the changes are to come into force from the new year, it is good for farmers to know what awaits them, how much money they have to secure in their own budgets, how they will cover their crops and animals, which they can count on in the event of damage. The amendment is intended to encourage farmers to insure their crops. Is that really how it's gonna be? After all, despite subsidies from the State budget to contributions from insurance contracts, the interest of farmers in agricultural policy is still relatively small. The basic argument that climate conditions are deteriorating from year to year does not appeal to farmers' awareness. Why is that? Certainly one of the reasons is insurance prices, especially in the case of drought risk insurance. In addition to prices, problems with the elimination of damages, such as a long waiting period for compensation payments or too low compensation payments, may still be low awareness of the benefits of insurance. This amendment brings us back to the package insurance system, which is supposed to encourage farmers to insure their crops, change their attitude. In practice, the implementation of the new rules will first have to be dealt with. This will be a new situation for both farmers and insurance companies. The question is, how are you going to convince the farmer to cover his crops for all the events provided for by the law, even those which will not in any way affect him? After all, only a full package will be possible, individual risk insurance is out of the question, at least that was the position. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But we do not know, sir, unfortunately we do not know the content of this amendment. We could not get acquainted with it, and the minister's position at the meeting of the agricultural committee was clear, and it was unlikely that there would be any change. So what if there will be government subsidies that the government will pump several hundred million zlotys into the insurance system if, as a result of such regulations, they can cost contributions? The effectiveness of spending public money will be none, and that is not what this is all about. As regards the need to promote agricultural insurance, there is no doubt about it. According to Dr. Krzysztof Łyskawy of the University of Economics in Poznań, the right way to ensure effective and acceptable tools for both farmers and insurers to deal with the consequences of weather disasters would be to change the way the damage is assessed in some risks. This is about flat-rate compensation for losses to farmers due, for example, to farmers. Frost, drought or floods. This would give farmers a chance to manage the risks knowingly and would be a step towards complementing the functioning of current insurance. However, the PiS government has decided to revolutionise the existing system, it will cost money. Is there enough money? We don't know. This year, the grant was missing, and what's going on with the autumn insurance is called a scandal. However, at the meeting of the committee, the Minister strongly expressed his views on the possibility of introducing these individual insurances in addition to package insurance. If there's an amendment, we'll see, in any case it would be a good direction. The Civic Platform Club after all [[♪ The bell ♪]] intends to support the project. We will not block solutions to help farmers. Will they help, we do not know, although we expected that after the criticism of our government, the PiS would present much more interesting solutions that were supposedly ready. What's being processed right now is really going back to what's already been done. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u41	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Agricultural Insurance and Farm Animals. The aim of the Act is to provide farmers with extended access to agricultural insurance with State subsidies to insurance premiums. The amendments to this Act concern, firstly, the increase in tariff rates which entitle the recipient to receive a grant and make it partly dependent on the soil class and, secondly, the dissemination of package insurance, while, as indicated in the justification of the project, the possibility for the agricultural producer to choose the type of risk for insurance will be maintained. It is worth noting that the tariff rates will continue to be set by the insurance undertaking depending on the degree of risk, so there are in principle no changes in this respect. It is a good forecast, because it shows that with a bit of goodwill there is the possibility of preventing the creation of artificial and inefficient law only to show any activity in legislation. However, since the start of the insurance system, it has been assumed that insurance cover will cover about 7 million hectares of crops. As it turns out, the current facts it does not even approach the expected results, and in addition it has a downward trend. In 2014, almost 3,300 thousand were covered by insurance cover. ha, while last year, this indicator was only slightly more than 2,800 thousand. ha. This law may help to reverse this trend, but it is worth stepping up other measures to cover the largest area of cultivation with insurance protection. It is also positive that the proposed solutions, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the project, will not impose additional burdens on the State budget as expenditure will be incurred within the limits already set. As we can see, with good intentions, it is possible to create a bill that is not regulated on a legal basis, and in a realistic and positive way will affect the reality surrounding farmers. From this point of view, I would like to express my hope that this project is not just a one-off or random action, and it will be the start of a beautiful series supporting Polish agriculture and Polish farmers, because no one deserves such help more than our employers. The Polish farmer deserves respect and a decent life. Landing is more than just a job - it's a mission. Poland remains the rock of Poland and Poland. This is what happened a few days ago at the Polish Village Assembly in Wojnicz. I hope that these words were sincere and will indeed be reflected in the activities undertaken for farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u43	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the last minute, the Minister of Agriculture increased the payment pool by 2 million. The result was that she ran out, that extra pot, in a few minutes. The earlier tranche for the insurer, this time I will mention Concordia, or 108 million, has spread out in less than four hours. This shows how big the demand for this type of insurance really is. As far as these insurances are concerned, it seems to me that their history stems from how Prime Minister Cimoszewicz said: one had to be insured, in 1997, after a great flood. You really have to cover yourself. It is good that such initiatives are being taken. On the other hand, considering this project, I have a few reservations. I believe that the insurance system should be universal, for everyone, and here it seems to be as much consent as possible. I wonder, however, how it is that the government is enormously increasing the pool of funds, and there is no guarantee that policy prices will not fall. We're throwing in some hundred million zlotys for insurers, and it seems that they're the only ones who'll actually be the beneficiaries of this insurance. If the government doesn't care if there's an upper limit to the contribution to which the payment is made, then you can train any money from the budget. That's my opinion, and I think it's justified. You recall, ladies and gentlemen, projects such as apartments for young people, etc., where the upper limits were set, where there were subsidies. In this case, I think you'd have to think of something like this, too. Why will the amount of aid and the maximum amount of insurance be determined only on 30 November? The insurance system, the amount of the premium, the sum of the insurance is the essential information necessary for the farmer to take the decision on sowing and should be known already in June, July, that is, when the production is planned for the following year. It seems to me that the idea is very right when it comes to insurance for farmers, but this project is absolutely not exhausting this idea. We should make a once again effort and effort to rework this project, to make amendments and to make it in such a form as to actually satisfy farmers' needs, while not draining budgets and not throwing in extra money, unnecessary, for insurers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u45	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This amendment is already one, I don't know if it's 10, 9 or 10, from the beginning, since this system has been functioning. He was born 12 years ago. In 2004, there was the first law on agricultural and livestock insurance, which gave farmers the opportunity to cover themselves against natural disasters, which are becoming increasingly common in rural areas at the time and today, and this phenomenon is increasing. The catalog of these events is wide - from phenomena that are marginal, such as: heavy rain, to phenomena that are common, such as the failure of hail, the failure of spring frosts or the very common drought disaster in Poland. This system allows farmers to insurance their crops and livestock against precisely these events - the payment of contributions, insurance in commercial insurance companies and, in the event of loss of yield, income, receiving compensation. And that's one way to protect yourself from natural disasters. Another method is technical protection, such as sprinklers, anti-haul grids, irrigation systems. In fact, farmers have the opportunity to benefit from a system that is more efficient, cheaper or more efficient. These two systems operate widely in rural areas, but not as widely as we all wish, which is unfortunately not protected from most crops. Many believe that it is a better security than technical protection, many cannot afford it because it is usually more expensive, so they are insured in insurance companies, and there are those who do not cover themselves or apply technical safeguards and expect state aid in extreme situations. It turned out in practice over the past years that this exceptional aid from the state budget was generally insufficient, and this season, this year clearly shows this, because this season has also been abundant in several atmospheric phenomena and the conditions that have been proposed to farmers under this emergency aid, are assessed by them as weak, insufficient, impossible to obtain, unacceptable. Let me remind you that the crop loss must be well above... about 70% or a 30% loss of income. So there is widespread dissatisfaction. An alternative is the insurance system - an insurance system that plays a key role in helping farmers in tragic situations in many countries - but it also has its limitations. We all know very well that they are collapsing here as if three expectations and opportunities - on the one hand, we have the budget of the state which determines this every year, has some amount, and, as a rule, it is not enough to support the system, i.e. to add to the contributions, there are farmers themselves who, in the event of a natural disaster, would like to receive compensation probably such the same as the loss incurred, and as a rule it is not, and there are insurance companies in this system who would like to receive as much contributions as possible and pay as little compensation as possible. This system has evolved over the years. Or we changed the possibility of co-financing in the form of a surcharge, from 50 to today 65% We either raised the maximum rates proposed by insurance companies, increased budget opportunities, and often changed the rules themselves. This Act today is a law on change of rules, because there are package insurances that notabene have already been. At that time we considered that these package insurances, because of the high potential cost of insurance companies, caused this system to be uncommon, and then, a few years ago, we gave it up for insurance from one risk. Today we are returning to this package insurance and for this reason there are some doubts that this system will certainly be a more efficient, better functioning system, because it really depends on how many farmers will participate in this system. The more common it will be, the cheaper it will be in the form of contributions, because also those who are not sure that there will be a risk on their farm. Today, it is usually insured by those who have almost such certainty, and insurance companies are prepared to pay compensation, thus raising their premiums or not submitting an offer. Time will show whether this amendment that we are discussing today will meet farmers' expectations in this respect, whether it will make this system more universal and thus make it more efficient and cheaper for farmers. There is probably a legitimate concern that this is not a revolutionary change that will quickly change and improve the operation of this system, but it is more an evolutionary change, which will rather be a pilot or a reason to observe the operation of this system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the following years, assess its effectiveness and perhaps prepare an even better revision. But because this system, or agricultural insurance, is very important from the point of view of Polish farms, we will support this project and continue to work on it in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u47	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance, prints Nos 469 and 838. The cautious always insured - this old saying seems to know everyone. Agricultural activity as a commercial activity is subject to one of the biggest risks, unpredictable, related to unexpected meteorological phenomena and natural disasters. Today, when the majority of investments due to competition are carried out with a minimum provision to cover the expected losses, it is very important that the largest number of farmers engaged in agricultural activities should be covered by insurance. Currently, most of the contracts concluded by farmers with insurers cover single risks and because of adverse rates do not cover insurance against the most serious and most common risks of drought. The solution proposed in the draft law for insurance subsidies sold in the so-called. risk packages seem to be good for both sides. The policyholder will be able to spread the costs into more components and the insured will be fully protected from possible losses. The high grant of such insurance should make it relatively cheap. The draft law is a burden on the budget, but it must be borne in mind that the State as an institution is obliged to make social commitments and ensure citizens' security. The lack of insurance available due to the high cost of the insurance premium is particularly severe for small farms whose profitability is relatively low. These farms belong to less wealthy farmers and therefore the risk of insurance against non-insurance is double negative. Farms with low economic potential may need many years to rebuild the situation before adverse circumstances. For many of them it may be unbearable, especially if the defeat happens again. Aid to obtain insurance and, consequently, to protect less viable holdings against bankruptcy in the event of a risk has another advantage. It is common opinion that Polish farmers produce good, healthy food. It is therefore better to support a well-known supplier than to import food from an uncertain source and to adopt permanent beneficiaries on the shoulders of the budget and social assistance. As the balance of the State and its citizens, support for agricultural insurance will pay off. During the public consultation it was suggested that the most expensive insurance, such as drought insurance, should cover 90% of the subsidy rate. However, in accordance with the European Union Guidelines on State aid in the agricultural and forestry sectors and in rural areas for the period 2014 to 2020 the aid intensity shall not exceed 65% of the cost of insurance premiums. The amendment to the Act will ensure greater availability of agricultural and animal insurance by introducing increased tariff rates to which State subsidies will be adjusted. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u49	Thank you, sir. Would any of you like to sign up for any more questions? If not, I'm closing the list. You are the first question to be asked by Marek Kwitek, the Law and Justice Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Insurance companies are threatening to see an increase in premiums and even a breakdown in the insurance system with the insurance package. What's your opinion on this? Are these real threats, or is it just an attempt to extort other government solutions that would benefit insurance companies? Has the Ministry conducted an analysis of the size of this increase? Minister! How can you comment on such a statement? I quote: If we are to offer package insurance under bearable conditions for a farmer, we will choose counties and voivodships in which there is no risk of drought, floods where the risk of negative effects of wintering is small, and we will lead to the opposite effect to the intended - the end of the quote. Minister! Whether insurance companies really want to be a partner in building a good agricultural and animal insurance system or just want to achieve [[♪ The bell ♪]] maximum profits? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Because of the respect I have for you, Minister, I will use very delicate and cautious words. What's happening on the insurance market right now is a disaster, a total disaster. Farmers crawl out of anger. How do you get that 15%? ... You have decided to increase your resources from 50% to 65%. There's no money. It only took two and a half hours for insurance. One risk last year costs four risks this year. How is it possible to give such great freedom and opportunity to have an insurance company? This has to stop, this can't happen. How many, Minister, farmers are insured by animal production? That's the answer to the question: micro. That's the answer to the question that this system doesn't work badly. Farmers want to insure, want to conduct business, reducing, using as little risk as possible, but this bill does not secure this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't know about your amendments, but what's happening on the market right now is a disaster, Minister, it has to be changed, because if it doesn't, it's gonna be bad on this market. The Civic Platform Club is going to try to make a lot of adjustments, we're going to try to help, but this project at this point is what I'm going to say, a bubble. I'm not gonna say bullshit. Bubbles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u53	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The insurance of agricultural production due to the nature of the activities related to natural hazards is absolutely obvious. The methods of state support so far are ineffective and often also undermine the sense of decency and integrity. This is done with the help of high social activity of people who are very devoted to it, but often do not have detailed knowledge of how to assess the state of the crops and what factors affect the state of these crops. What the government is proposing is an evolutionary solution, but very important. This is a significant increase in insurance aid, with a huge amount - for next year there is more than 900 million, in the following years there will be up to 1600 million. This is an important issue. The point is - and this is my question or my question - how the Ministry conducts talks with insurance companies, so that it does not turn out that given the interest of farmers and large budget resources, the beneficiaries will not be farmers and insurance companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a question that is very serious and requires a certain and delicate negotiation, and the toughness of the government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u55	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Again, there's a bill where maybe there was an idea, but it doesn't bring anything about farmers. In fact, in the case of this bill, the winners are insurance companies. Again, they will be the beneficiaries of the capital that you are throwing out of the budget. I have a question for the Minister: How did you talk to the company so that farmers' rates would be constans and not what would be increased? Because that can't happen. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Korzeniowski, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What you did with the insurance this year is a classic example of a mess no one's ever done before. What happened in the fall... My colleagues have already talked about it, the point is that you're increasing the budget's share by 15%. That's from 50% to 65%, leaving the same funds. I think the insurance companies have gone against you, and they've exceptionally increased the amount. I'm just gonna talk about one risk, I'm talking about the risk of hail in the case of rape. Do you, Minister, know that at the moment, when it comes to the risk of hail at 4 t of rape, what happens, and 1600 zł per t, which is not a very high price, today is 220 zł per ha? One risk. You guys think about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] True, you filed this bill in April when there was not yet this mess in the insurance market, but for a nice God, it cannot be that within two hours there is a lack of funds for insurance. I don't know if it's some kind of punishment, or if it's some kind of new system, or if it's the new quality you want... That's the good change you've made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u59	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u60	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project we're looking for is a good solution, and that's the right thing to do. However, I have a question: What are we going to do and whether the government, or whether the Minister sees any chance to maintain the possibility of continuity of insurance and assistance to those farmers who could not benefit because they were one hour late, two days late, one day late and did not have insurance. For the wintering? We've got time for the hailing. If the law and its regulations enter into on 1 January, will we be able to conclude agreements including the risks of wintering this winter, or will we have to wait until next year? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it's very important. This is respect and equal opportunities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, to get a farmer to hit a cataclysm that meets his crop in the spring or at the harvest, it's similar to playing a lottery. 'Cause today you have to take care of the hail, and the rain, and the drought. Such an insurance package really costs a lot. And isn't it that farmers stop insurance, there are downward trends when it comes to insurance their crops, because they just can't get into the type of risk, and it costs so much that then the profits from this crop are so small that they just work hobbytically? Will this act lead to the insurance package making sure that, in the event of a crisis, a farmer receives money in the event of a disaster, and consequently will lead to savings in the state budget, because it will not be necessary to introduce special schemes to help farmers out of a difficult situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u63	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill is needed, farmers must feel safe. The state must introduce such mechanisms so that citizens in Poland feel safe. I think we heard the Prime Minister once: you should have insured yourself. That's as far as it goes. In order to be insured, it must be the conditions for insurance. This bill helps with that. However, I will draw attention to what I already pointed out during the agricultural committee meeting, when insurers, and everyone like one husband, said that they were against this solution because they were at risk. Of course, to tell you the truth, they're at risk, only with the massage of this insurance, and I hope it's going to be mass, it's going to be spread over everyone. How did we make sure that these insurance companies didn't raise insurance prices? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have Polish insurers. They're against it, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u65	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr.Peter Pole, Law and Justice. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On this bill, farmers are waiting to change the rules and conditions of insurance for their crops. The bill is absolutely necessary and necessary. I would like to ask the Minister about this subject, which the previous speakers have already raised here. Namely, in accordance with the provisions in force at that time, the Minister of Agriculture enters into agreements with undertakings for insurance premiums relating to precisely these agricultural crops and animals. I would like to ask you how these agreements are concluded and how they have been concluded so far. Is there a envisaged change in the rules for concluding these agreements? I mean specifically whether it is possible to distribute competitions on this topic, so that the cheapest possible can be to choose those insurers to whom very large money will come from the state budget. And there's another case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister is also responsible for monitoring expenditure on subsidies. In the context of the doubts raised by the previous speakers, is there any possibility of monitoring the question of reliable estimation of losses caused by the conditions for agricultural or animal production? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u67	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u68	One of the shortcomings of this insurance system is that although three partners are involved: the state budget, i.e. the government, the farmer who pays the premium, and the insurance undertakings that collect and then pay the compensation, the way in which the losses incurred are valued and the actual compensation is determined by only one entity who participates in the game or in the process. Insurance companies are clearly preferred. The state budget pays a small amount, the farmer pays 50% - now he will pay 35%, but these are also large amounts - but when it comes to estimating losses, on one side there is only an insurance company, a commercial insurance company, which is interested in it, once again I will emphasize that this compensation is paid in the smallest amount. Therefore, it appears that these other two entities are injured in the whole operation. Therefore, the question is whether it is not thought about changing this system and that independent experts should assess the losses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from a non-financial institution, for example from agricultural chambers, so that all three elements that are involved in the scheme, including in particular the position of the farmer, can be taken into account. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u69	Thank you very much. And Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u70	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Watching the Youth Crafts! I have a question for the Minister: Will this bill bring savings in the state budget? If farmers are more likely to be insured, special disaster programmes will not be needed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u71	Thank you very much, sir. Minister Zbigniew Babalski will answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the discussion, for the questions. As you can see, I am here today to replace Minister Bogucki, and on the subject, on issues that are actually very difficult. The previous act on the promotion fund was also expected, also aroused emotions, maybe smaller than the insurance law, but also some emotions were. Now we have the insurance bill. Maybe my answers or my speech will be pretty general, which I apologize for. If you want to know the answers in detail, these questions will be removed from the transcript and we will try to answer them in detail, but I hope that I will satisfy your curiosity expressed in the club speeches as well as in the questions asked. I am a little surprised that such an attack has been carried out here, especially on the part of the Civic Platform, because it is really the colleagues who have asked, and the colleagues who have asked, who have participated in the work of the committee in the last 8 years, in previous terms, apart from Mr Aichler, of course. About insurance, practically, the discussion was every year. Mr Maliszewski is not here. Indeed, there have been several or more of these changes. On the other hand, I really do not want to be misunderstood, but who, like someone, had a huge chance to organize the insurance market and secure Polish farmers within 8 years. That's not a charge. I know what I'm saying because I was on the committee. You didn't do it. We didn't wait too long, we tried. Whether she's capable or not, give her a chance, a time and a chance to see what it's gonna look like. Of course, I will not mention names this year, because you will want to straighten out, but Members who have been in Parliament for many years and worked in the Committee on Agriculture know very well that the amount of PLN 200 million... [[It's okay.]] ...which have been, Mr, for several years - I have here a table, I can show it - they have been used within 70% , 60%. What happened this year? Who likes to say, but people who know farming shouldn't ask because we've seen the weather situation. The climate is changing and, from year to year, these disasters that affect Polish farmers are likely to increase. That is why this government, no one else, just this government, in its own 2017 budget - maybe it is funny for you, but for us very serious, Member - from 2017, when proposing a package on insurance, it increases almost four times, more, almost five times the money from the state budget. Someone says it's wasteful and unnecessary spending money. And I'll tell you, I'd be in favour of an option of up to 100 percent, because as a result, the state would save and not lose. And you all know that, but you have to attack. I'm the one taking it on myself, and I'm gonna take it on those times. Because responsibility... Not every farmer. I agree with that. Not every farmer can afford it today, but... And that they're looting insurance companies. [[Terrible.]] Yeah, they're using it, they're taking advantage of our weakness so far. But if we do, and that's the plan, in the next three years, to get the crop and animal insurance... You asked the Member how much he said it was a small percentage. Of course I do. There's 17.5 million for this year. This may not mean anything, sir, but it is something. And it was 13 million. [[It's moving.]] Mr President, there were 13 million in 2015 and 17.5 million in 2016. So it's growing. It's growing. [[But with the chickens, Minister, with the chickens.]] Mr President, if you change your clothes, you will have poultry. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Then you'll just cover the poultry. Well, Mother dear... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Minister, it's easy to say...]] Okay, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u73	But I'm asking you to calm down. Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: If you would please, of course, we can discuss this, I would prefer that we have this discussion in committee. So what's my point? This universality should make these policies cheaper. Someone's made a plea against us, I think it's a modern envoy... [[Voice from the courtroom: To be different.]] ...that we don't have any scale or thresholds. On the contrary: we have, we propose. Up to and including Class IV is 9%, Class V - 12% and class VI - 15% . So we tried to establish these shores in this way. Is this gonna work? If within 10 years or, let's say, more than 15 years of the amendment, a minor one, has already taken place about 10, 11 times, nothing prevents that in a short time there will be a possibility... If, after analysis, we come to the conclusion that these thresholds need to be changed, we'll change that too. As for talking to insurance companies, today we have three entities. They submit their offers, three: Concordia, TUW TUW and PZU. [[Voice from the room: HERE?]] I'm talking about facts. I'm talking about facts and nothing else. We have three entities. I would like to tell you - and you have also heard this from Minister Jurgiel - that work is currently underway on setting up an insurance company with the participation of the post office, with a large share of the state. We just want to show that the monopoly that is currently in the insurance market will also be broken. It's not competitive, it's just... I mean, it'll be possible to break through competition. I think this recollection in insurance companies should come, too. It's not surprising that policies are more expensive. If it is a terribly difficult year, the insurer pays huge amounts, it is simply trying to secure itself in some way as a player on the market, not only the one he is insurance. It would be good if it worked both ways and it looked partnerly, not unilaterally, as is the case today. There were questions about the ones who ran out of money. Unfortunately, for the winter - there is no turning back here - this money is simply not going to be, but since January - I repeat, that is PLN 917 million - this money will be run and it will be possible for other threats that occur, are described in the bill, to take these actions. The winter was actually lacking, but it was not the Law and Justice that determined the amount and not the Law and Justice that affected the weather that took place in 2016. By predicting that it could be even worse, we are increasing the amount in the state budget for 2017. Mr Kaczmarczyk - yes, I share your opinion that this is a situation where the universality that should take place... We assume that, over the next three years, we can lead to the situation that we will be covering between 7 and 8 million hectares. This would be a really good indicator, which would first of all give Polish farmers greater security. You also touched on this, and I absolutely share that view. Thank you very much for your critical words at all, but you can see that this problem simply needs to be solved. And you just can't wait any longer. One Member said that insurance companies are particularly preferable in a significant way. The policy is always accompanied by general insurance conditions, so it seems that it should be a partnership. Although I work at the Ministry of Agriculture, I also have a full shift and I had meetings in my parliamentary office, where I was shown what rates were actually offered and asked if there was any advice for this. The advice is that next year we will try to contain this situation. It's about talking to companies again. I believe that Marek Kwitek asked in detail how these procedures take place. Act in Art. 8 describes it in very detail. I don't know if she's... You're an MP. The Minister responsible for Agriculture is the Committee on the Evaluation of Tenders, hereinafter referred to as 'the Commission'. Members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Minister responsible for Agriculture. The Commission shall consist of: 2 representatives of the Minister responsible for Agriculture; a representative of the Minister responsible for Financial Institutions; a representative of the Financial Supervision Commission; a representative of the Polish Insurance Association; a representative of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers; a representative of the trade unions of individual farmers; a representative of socio-professional farmers' organisations. As you can see, the cross-section of institutions and people involved in this is quite broad. To conclude, your marshal, first of all I address those who took part in this discussion, but also Polish farmers, if they listen to us. We took this job with a lot of your support, because it needs to be given back. Critical voices must be considered as those voices that can bring something valuable to work further, which can cause us to simply fix this system. Thank you for that. The amendment that has been tabled will reassure you, too, as regards the sum of individual risks. This amendment, practically speaking, should also, although it may be a bad word, reassure the insurance chambers that the bill goes only in one direction. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. I wanted to tell you that we are listening to young people today. I wanted to give my warmest regards to the IIc class from the High School of General Education. Tadeusz Kościuszko in Siców. Welcome. [[Applause]] We are also listened to by councillors from the Junior Council of the Commune in Niedrowica Big in the War. Lublin. We welcome you very much. [[Applause]] [[Your marshal, in corrigendum mode.]] But you haven't been mentioned, very much, sir, I'm sorry. [[Voice from the room: He didn't mention anyone.]] The Minister was very careful not to mention any names and no MPs... [[At first.]] Please, the rapporteur of the committee wanted to take the floor. [[I won't force it.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u74	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to thank you very warmly for your active participation in the work of both the subcommittee and the committees. This work was constructive. I also thank you for supporting this project today - despite comments, despite discussion, maybe emotional but constructive places. I would like to thank you very much for this. I also address my thanks to the Ministry of Agriculture, to the Minister, who has been active in the work of both the committee and the subcommittee. Ladies and gentlemen! I will add, lastly, that the Minister said that the Polish Insurance Association, and I spoke about it in the report, raised some reservations about the reduction of the insurance offer for agricultural producers. Therefore, these reservations have been made through an amendment made by the Law and Justice, for which I thank you very much, so to speak, overshadowed. Why? That is because this amendment, which was introduced by the Law and Justice Club, allows insurance in 2017 of agricultural crops from one or more selected risks, while maintaining the possibility of making use of State funding for tariff contributions. That's what I'm talking about. It was the Polish Insurance Association. Once again, thank you all very much for supporting this law and for your work in committee and subcommittee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u75	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has submitted a report on the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Retail Tax (prints No 952 and 1007). I ask Mr Stefan Strzłkowski to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm sorry to report from this point on, but I'm temporarily disturbed, and I'm having trouble moving. Ladies and gentlemen! I present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the draft parliamentary law repealing the Act of 6 July 2016 on retail tax, print No 928. The Sejm at its 29th meeting on 3 November 2016 pursuant to Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 14 November 2016, asks: The High Sejm to reject the draft law from print no. 928. Warsaw, 14 November 2016 Ladies and gentlemen! Since the two projects are on the same subject, after considering the next one, I will refer in full to the issues that are to be regulated by the draft laws presented in the prints. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u77	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Soboń, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club believes that a government project from print No.952 should be adopted. The implementation of tax returns on trade tax should be suspended and enforcement of that tax should be suspended by the end of 2017, by 1 January 2018, i.e. until the European Commission or the European Court of Justice has settled the case. On this occasion, it is worth explaining some of the issues that have been raised in this public debate and which need to be clarified more widely. Whether this form of tax is public aid raises serious doubts among Members of the Law and Justice, namely because the proposed construction is a construction of the level progression, i.e. the kind of progression that does not create differentiation between taxpayers. There is no difference between taxpayers who are in a comparable situation, i.e. in a situation where selective public aid could be considered to exist, the measure is, in our view, a measure in general. Taxpayers at the same level of income are taxed exactly the same. The higher rate shall be calculated only on the excess tax base over the threshold setting the rate. In short, there is no distinction between individual taxpayers. There is also no zero tax rate. There is a free amount, but it concerns all entities covered by the Act. 0.8% is a monthly income of PLN 17 to 170 million, and 1.4% is only a surplus of PLN 170 million over this revenue. I understand that both Members of the Modern Platform and Members of the Civic Platform will agree that large-income companies have greater opportunities for tax optimization, achieve economies of scale, have more productivity, we only draw a different conclusion, because we draw from this the conclusion that, through the possibility of tax autonomy of the individual Member States of the European Union, we should strive to use all the instruments that will result in social redistribution, financial redistribution and exploitation of the potential of large players in the trading market as a result of tax solutions. Level progression - this is also worth explaining - only applies to revenues. Income can, of course, affect the size of the company, but it does not have to, so it is that in short periods very high revenues due to the seasonality of the business can achieve different types of business, which are normally business according to the definition of a small and medium-sized enterprise. It must also be said that the Act does not exempt companies from tax because of: a certain size, sector, legal form, date of formation of the company, membership of a group of companies, difficult situation of the company or export-related activities. There is therefore no formal selectivity in the case of the project that we have presented, and in our view it is doubtful that there is also a finding of factual selectivity, in short, what the European Commission is accusing us of and investigating at the moment, i.e. state aid. We want to be treated in the same way as other countries, for example. France, which uses slightly different solutions. We do not want to be compared to Hungary because there is no time for this. But there are important differences that make this comparison a complete abstraction. This is not the same construction as the Hungarian construction. We just want to know that... [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is to say, we are in the position that the Member States in tax matters have autonomy, and we have used this autonomy. We will be evaluated by the Commission, perhaps by the Court. Let's see what happens. For now, we want to suspend this tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u79	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Let me repeat: imposing new taxes is not sealing the tax system, Mr President. However, it turned out that the Government of Law and Justice could not seal the tax system. The only solutions that increase or increase tax revenues are those contained in the Civic Platform's laws. These are the laws on controlled foreign companies, on transfer prices or finally on a single control file. The rest of your work is to continue the tasks started by the previous government, by the Civic Platform government, such as the fuel package, the central invoice register. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, Minister Skiba admitted that the anti-tax avoidance clause did not work. Besides, the amendment to the ordination you have introduced in an absolutely unconstitutional manner is the best proof of this. But that's what we're going to talk about at the next point. Unfortunately, all these solutions are not enough for the PiS government's appetite, it's not enough for an appetite to spend not your money by law and justice. So what are you doing? You're introducing new taxes, e.g. commercial tax. It's okay that everyone says it's a bad and harmful tax, that it's a tax that they'll pay, they've already paid, shop customers and Polish suppliers of goods. You insist that the election promise has to be fulfilled. It's nothing that you promised pear on the willow, it's nothing that there won't be any tax on hypermarkets, and you know it. After all, for a year you can pretend that the evil European Union is oppressing Polish trade, then introduce a tax for all, even small shopkeepers, and blame it on Brussels. The finance minister told us yesterday about some white flag that the government wouldn't hang because he would go to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Minister, in this war with everyone, you forget that in fact the consequences of your wars and wars are against the interests of Poles. They are Polish taxpayers, it is our countrymen who pay for all this, because not only in 2017 you will tax trade, all trade, and you will collect 1,200 million of this tax - you do not yet know exactly how you will do it, but you have put your income in the budget bill - it is from the taxpayer's pocket that you will pay for the trial before the Court of Justice, which, everyone again tells you, you will simply lose. You are a textbook example of Margaret Thatcher's thesis being true, the argument that socialist governments always make a mess in public finances because they always spend not their money. Paradoxically, Law and Justice is a socialist government, a government that takes us back to the times of the Polish People's Republic in many areas. In addition, you do it badly and this bill, the Commercial Tax Act, is one of the exemplary examples of your incompetence, I dare say even ignorance. And it doesn't change the fact that you're gonna set up more bands, and they're gonna have patriotic adjectives in their names. Patriotism is not about talking about it much and creating patriotic institutions in the name. Patriotism is that a competent government prepares laws that make life easier for people. However, today, at this meeting of the Sejm, we are taking at least three laws considered in the Committee on Public Finance, which either introduce a new tax, or introduce a huge threat to public finances and sentence Poles in this case to additional taxes and, in the case of other laws, to life for starving pensions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In one session of the Sejm, you can do a lot of damage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u81	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present our position on the government's bill on retail tax. Once again, I want to remind you what happened last year... [[Excuse me, Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u83	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u84	I'm really sorry, but that's not what we're talking about. I presented a project that was rejected at the committee meeting yesterday, from print No. 928, and it concerns the rejection of the parliamentary project, and here we are talking about a government project. These projects were considered separately.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u85	Excuse me, sir, but you have spoken, now Members refer to this point, then you will also speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u86	I'm not referring to it, I'm referring to the fact that we're not talking about this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u87	But you were supposed to comment on the bill. I told you which print, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u88	Print No. 928 is one, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u89	Members speak now, you will speak in a moment, please do not interrupt your colleagues. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u90	Our positions are for both, because they're combined, it's hard to separate. At first reading, it was also combined, so I see no reason why we should treat it separately. I'm gonna try to make it even. Last year, in the election campaign - I will remind the rulers here - you discovered, which was no surprise, that there is a very inefficient CIT tax, that Western corporations avoid paying it clearly, which is obvious to people in the industry, for example when invoicing, for the use of a trademark, and you introduced the slogan of taxation of hypermarkets in the election campaign. To be honest, I was in agreement with that slogan, and this agreement was until a certain point, when after winning the elections you started to tinker with this idea and you made the idea of a tax on hypermarkets a simple retail tax. What was expected, this tax, this project of yours has been protested in the European Union, by the Commission, and right now you want to suspend your bill for more than a year. I'm really trying to be very understanding about this type of action and I'm looking for justification for this type of action, but you have to be aware that this suspension will not cause anything else, and it will give the corporations extra time to do even better tax optimization and prepare for your project, and I'm definitely going for a big-money bet - after this optimization, none of these corporations will enter your highest tax threshold. So why don't you tell me why you're so anxious to suspend it, and you don't want to just let it go? I know, otherwise, that work is currently being done on a new project that may be more meaningful. I don't know the details that well, but in general there's a slightly better design, more fair. First of all, I don't really understand some of the things that I read in your justification, and I would ask for some explanation, because maybe I don't understand something, and that's just because I don't know something. Because in the justification of your project, you state that as a result of its suspension in 2017, the amount of 1590 million will not flow to the budget, in turn in the draft budget law you change the name and instead of the name: trade tax you enter the name: the planned tax on large-area trade - 1200 million. So I understand you're suspending this, but you're preparing a new tax on large-area stores. It just doesn't really fit into what I already know. But maybe there's something I don't know, because this new idea is supposed to be that there won't be a free amount. Is it simply true that there will be no free amount and you will call this new tax: from large-area shops, you will direct to any trade, regardless of what the area of the commercial premises will be, or 20 m2 or 2 000. m2 or 20,000. M2? That is why your idea of suspension is so incomprehensible to me that we, as the Kukiz Posel Club15, cannot support this project. But, as I said before, I want to combine my speech also [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the Modern Project, which talks about rejecting this tax in its entirety. I will simply object to the rejection, as a member of the Kukiz15 club, of the Modern Project because I am in favour of repealing this commercial tax. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u91	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today is also the day when we are summing up the rule of law and justice, and this trade tax bill is a very good summary of these 12 months. The bill evolved a lot, we saw a few issues here, we started with a tax that was supposed to be from the commercial area, then we moved on to a progressive turnover tax. It ended with the fact that we have no tax and today traders in Poland are deeply concerned about what the next ideas will be. The most for their further existence are not afraid of Polish commercial networks today... i.e. not foreign commercial networks, but just Polish commercial networks, which work on smaller margins and for which every idea of linear tax, and in advance we said that this is where it ends, is very bad, because it will be even harder for them to compete with their international competitors. The best summary of all these economic regulations, including, among others, retail tax, there are today's GDP figures. This morning, the CSO reported the latest data on GDP for the third quarter and on how the rule of law and justice influences the Polish economy, best demonstrated by the fact that GDP for the third quarter grew 2.5%. Ladies and gentlemen, this is 0.9%. less than laid down in the Budget Act. Let me remind you that by introducing a budget law, the government assumed that GDP would increase 3.6% at the end of the year. And we said it was overrated, but to be honest, in the darkest scenarios, I didn't expect us to end up in the third quarter at 2.5%. What does that mean? This means that about 20 billion PLN evaporated from the Polish economy. That's all you need, ladies and gentlemen. 500+ next year. This shows what law and justice policy looks like best in terms of the economy. You make the law wrong. You are unable to seal taxes, as this Retail Act also proves. If the government were able to properly introduce a circumvention clause, if it could seal the tax system, this law, which was supposed to force foreign trading networks to pay taxes in Poland, would not be necessary today, because it was supposed to be. But it's not really an assumption to charge large commercial networks, but it's to get money out of Polish wallets. Because already, it must be said also directly, today Polish economic ignorant people rule and you start spending money which you do not have. And you have led to the fact that after a year of government in panic, you are looking for money in the wallets of Poles. And there are more and more bizarre ideas, from which you withdraw after expert opinions, such as: double taxation of investment funds, parataxes imposed on the UOKiK on the occasion of another law that you tried to put in. I wonder how long... are you gonna be able to get these ideas out of your head? You don't have an idea for a commercial tax either. We've basically said everything about this tax. It is harmful for the Polish economy, it will be paid by Poles, not foreign commercial networks, it will be paid by customers and suppliers of commercial networks. He's already basically been transferred. And you should really hit your chest and start working to get this tax removed from Polish producers, farmers, food processing companies in Poland, those who deliver their goods to commercial networks, because in fact they have already paid this tax, even though it is withdrawn today. That's why the Modern Club doesn't see any other chance of just throwing it away. And we continue to take the view that the Act of 6 July 2016 should be repealed. We know well today, and also if you want to learn from your mistakes and mistakes. Hungarians, you would know that the proceedings before the Court of Justice make no sense, because the experience we have in this area clearly shows that no progress in Poland will be possible. What does that mean? You're freaking out, you're making chaos, you're holding back investment in new commercial areas, you're creating new jobs. Today trade only complements those places which must be completed, while practically most, even more and more Polish shopping centers built by Polish entrepreneurs [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's having trouble putting his hires on. This is what 12 months of business tax work looks like. It's time to hit your chest and admit that you can't prepare the kind of tax you talked about in the election campaign. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u93	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on retail tax, print No. 952 and 1007. The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting yesterday, 14 November, with the votes of PiS MEPs, rejected the draft print no. 928, i.e. The Parliamentary draft law repealing the Act of 6 July 2016 on retail tax and adopted the draft print No 952, with a slight editorial change. I would like to remind you that both of these projects are the result of the decision of the European Commission of 19 September this year, which initiated the investigation procedure and ordered Poland to suspend the granting of unlawful aid. In view of the above, the Government proposes, in accordance with the print project No 952, to postpone the validity of the Law as regards sales revenue achieved from 1 January 2018. The main objective, according to the government, was to introduce a retail tax for hypermarkets, large foreign trading networks, and thus to strengthen the position of small shops. Unfortunately, it must be concluded that the retail tax did not meet these expectations and did not meet the objectives pursued. There was such a classic transfer of costs, transfer of costs to: suppliers to large commercial networks, intermediary Polish entrepreneurs, farmers, supply companies, security companies or even cleaning companies. Even in the case of a positive decision of the European Commission for Poland, the proposed tax is a bad solution and is mainly detrimental to Polish entrepreneurs and customers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u95	Thank you very much, Member. You're welcome, Mr. Ireneus Gains, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Retail Tax, print No. 952, and the report of the Public Finance Commission regarding this bill, print No. 1007. The government project introduces a provision whereby the provisions of the Retail Tax Act of 6 July 2016 would apply to sales revenue achieved from 1 January 2018 and would not apply to retail sales revenue achieved between September 2016 and the end of December 2017. As we can read in the explanatory memorandum, the amendment follows from the European Commission's decision of 19 September 2016 that it initiated a detailed investigation into the retail tax, while issuing an order obliging Poland to suspend its application until its analysis by the Commission has been completed. One of the main objectives of introducing a retail tax, so-called commercial tax, it was a level playing field between small and medium Polish trading companies and large foreign trading networks, which often effectively avoided taxation in Poland. For example, the report of the Republican Foundation also showed that in the same tax system there are large commercial networks on the Polish market, which in 2011 paid PLN 241 million in one case tax, in another PLN 600 million in another case, in the case of another very large network not even EUR 1 gr of CIT was paid, while another commercial network in which millions of Poles make purchases received as much as PLN 14 million of tax refund. In such a situation, it is necessary to take steps not only to bring retail tax into line with European Union law, where the provisions of the Act are found to be incompatible with the State aid rules, but also to reflect on the current highly imperfect construction of CIT. It is worth noting that the European Commission does not question Poland's right to decide on the level of taxation or the purpose of individual taxes and charges, including those relating to the so-called. commercial tax. Therefore, the government's proposal to cease the application of the law seems more reasonable than its total repeal, all the more so as the current construction of the commercial tax is socially acceptable. It is the result of a compromise reached after long negotiations with numerous representatives of the trade industry. I took part in the meeting at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, where many Polish entrepreneurs from small and medium-sized commercial networks participated in the meeting of the Parliamentary Group for the Support of Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism. So that this form of law was preceded by long public consultations. A similar compromise should be reached where it is necessary to propose a different structure of the tax. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle will support the government bill amending the Retail Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u97	Thank you very much, sir. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the committee Stefan Strzałkowski to speak in order to clarify the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u98	Thank you, Marshal. I may not be explaining the misunderstanding anymore, but I was just saying that there were two separate projects discussed yesterday in the Committee on Public Finance. The project from the message and the second project from the government's submission. I referred only to this at first and proposed to proceed, maybe not to proceed, but to consider this point concerning the rejection of the parliamentary bill, but now I feel obliged that this House should, however, have decided on the tax of the government's submission, so let me read this report: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Retail Tax Act (Print No 952) The Sejm at its 29th meeting on 3 November 2016 - in accordance with the Rule. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm - he sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 14 November 2016, asks: The High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Warsaw, 14 November 2016 The following changes are made within this project. Art. 1. in the Act of 6 July 2016 on retail tax, U. poz. 1155, amends as follows. First, the title of Chapter 6 is replaced by the following: Secondly, Chapter 6 adds Article. 11a as follows: 11a. The provisions of the Act shall apply to revenues from retail sales achieved from 1 January 2018. The law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. And so much for formal matters. As rapporteur, I do not want to refer to the political diwags on tax policy, but I would just like to say - because you have had the opportunity to speak on this subject earlier, and thank you for doing something to me - to explain why this bill was submitted and what it is intended to do. Well, of course, every country is sovereign in deciding to set up taxes, and in principle no one interferes, but here it has been challenged that there may be too much State aid for one business sector. Therefore, the European Commission initiated a detailed investigation into this matter and basically issued the so-called "Polish Government." an order to suspend until such time as this problem is considered. In view of the fact that the Polish government will not bear unnecessary compensation costs, I will add, of course, together with any interest, that it submits such a bill in order to have time also for other procedures which may still exist in case of negative decisions. I would like to say here that the government project suspends the collection of retail tax by the end of 2017, removing all taxpayers' obligations, including the need to make declarations. This period will allow the European Commission to terminate its proceedings. We hope this ends in such a time. During this time the Polish government will be able to present its arguments regarding the solutions adopted by the High Chamber. The total tax waiver proposed by the modern club is, to put it mildly, premature at the moment. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u99	Thank you very much, sir. Students from primary school in Gnieszowice, Sandomierz district listen to our discussions. I'd like to welcome them. We cordially welcome you to the Seym. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that we are launching speeches from the list of Members who will ask questions. Anyone else want to join the list? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u100	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Is it true that the government is preparing a draft new Commercial Tax Act in which there will be no tax-free amount and for all trade to be accepted tax of 1,2% Revenue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u101	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Regardless of which bill the High Sejm will adopt, one thing is certain: in 2017, no revenue from retail tax will enter the state budget. So what does the government intend to do with the planned amount of PLN 1200 million of revenue from this? What sources of revenue will replace the planned retail tax? When will the Sejm be informed of this? Let me remind you that the work on the 2017 budget is very advanced. The budget is already very tight and any reduction in revenue is aggravating the already difficult situation in this area. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u103	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Minister, tell the High House what the costs of proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union will be. I'm talking about the total cost, probably a subpoena. Is the government going to hire a law firm? Let's skip the image cost of losing, I'm asking about the economic impact of government decisions. How much will it cost the Polish taxpayer? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u105	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Strzłkowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask the Members' Project applicants if anything has changed in the thinking of politicians lately. It seemed to me that we all as Members are unanimous on the fact that we should build as strong as possible Polish economic structures, while carefully reading into the justification of this project, which, fortunately, was rejected in my opinion, I note that there is a great care for very large corporations, which will manage perfectly in any situation. I would also like to protest: it is not true, it is not absolutely clear that the imposition of some tribute - it is known that such tribute is imposed so that it is not too burdensome - every tribute must cause an increase in the price of goods [[♪ The bell ♪]] and services. So that I wanted to ask, has anything changed in our thinking? Or are we taking other directions?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u107	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The economic analyses carried out show that the solutions proposed by the Ministry of Finance regarding the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act can lead to the destruction of small and medium-sized franchise companies, which are conducted in our country mostly as family businesses. I have a question. Will and how will the retail tax in the version proposed by the Ministry of Finance strengthen small and medium-sized networks and shops? Has a mechanism been set up to make it difficult or impossible for large networks to pass taxes on to consumers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u109	Thank you very much, Member. Minister Wiesław Janczyk will answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much for the discussion on the draft law report in print No 952, on the revision of the retail tax law. In fact, a number of arguments for and against the introduction of this public-law tribute, which I would like to remind you of, is the implementation of the postulate of Law and Justice, a group which today has a parliamentary majority, and meets the expectations of the commercial industry in terms of equalisation of business opportunities in this area, regardless of the scale of this activity, since many people operating in this sector have raised an objection of unequal competition in relation to the scale of activities carried out before retail providers. At present, following the adoption of a law imposing such a tax on operators in proportion to the amount of revenue, I would remind you, with a high amount free for monthly income of 17 million, for the amount of revenue of 17 By decision of 19 September 2016, the European Commission initiated a detailed investigation into the Polish retail tax and, at the same time, issued an order obliging Poland to suspend its application until its examination by the Commission, so-called. A suspension order. Following this, the Minister for Development and Finance issued on 18 October a regulation on the cessation of the collection of retail tax, at the same time setting a time limit for this suspension until the end of this year. However, a decision has been taken to shape this to the rank of a law suspending the obligation to declare and pay tax until the end of the future, 2017 due to the fact that the European Commission questioned the imposition of this tribute as a tribute which infringes the EU State aid principle. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, it seems reasonable that the government merely suspends the application of these provisions, given that the Commission has not issued a final decision on this matter. Today, there is an exchange of information and arguments, and these arguments are weighted. Poland also has the right to bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union. It may therefore be worthwhile to move on to questions, as they also concerned possible costs in this regard. Mrs Leszczyna was particularly interested in whether this would expose the State Treasury to excessive costs. Let me put it this way: if the case goes to the TSUE, it will be conducted, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and we do not expect the cost of a procedural replacement here, so that I am calming here. There is also no reason to withdraw from the dialogue we are having with the European Union today. Waiting for any rules to be applied in this segment is a broad expectation. It concerns not only Polish entrepreneurs, it is an expectation, which is actually in the interest of many other countries, especially the countries of Central Europe, where large-scale shops have developed, international capital operating in this area and pushing family companies, small and medium-sized enterprises out of the domestic market in these countries of Central Europe. Unlike in the declarations coming from the European Union, the question of equalising the conditions for doing business for small operators who do not benefit from economies of scale is not easy, and there is nothing - this whole situation shows - too much to count on the understanding of the European Commission, which examines in detail precisely such regulations as we have proposed, I will recall this once again, as a result of the very far-reaching arrangements that have been designed to provide such a tribute, which will to the fullest extent fulfil this expected stimulus function, enabling the development of residential shops, small shops, family shops and small and medium-sized enterprises. Mrs Kamińska asked about the franchise. I can only say this: discussing the definition of entities subject to the obligation to pay this tax for a long time was... The designation of the catalogue of these entities was limited precisely what we learned about the forms of business and cooperation between counterparties in the field of cooperation in the sales of goods and this definition of franchise. This has definitely slowed down work on this regulation in the past, but a definition has been developed that has eliminated all these controversy, fears and disputes. Precisely, we have been working on the bill for a long time, but all environmental demands have been taken into account in such a way that in this final version that we are talking about today, actually these concerns, including the franchisees, have been fully excluded. So that for today there is no project that would make the situation of entrepreneurs worse. This is also the answer to Mr Romecki's question as to whether there is another project ready today, etc. There's no such project. It is worth talking about in this regard and it is necessary, because the demand for public tribute stimulating development and the opportunity to do business occurs. Entrepreneurs still want to talk about it and ask, however, that they do not depart from the attempt to regulate this area in such a way as to allow for objective business conditions regardless of access to capital, the size of business and the scale of business, so the discussion and discussion on this subject may continue. That's what happens. The parliamentary team met on this matter. Members and industry stakeholders expressed their views. They have every right to do that. The decision on whether a new version and a fitting for a new formula for calculating such a tax would be taken has not been made. This is a decision which is the decision of the Minister of Finance, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the government. In this respect, there are no declarations which could be of interest to the public. There are no versions that would be agreed today, and certainly the Government of Law and Justice will listen and listen, as it has already proved, to the very entrepreneurs concerned who, as I said, dream of carrying out such an economic activity on terms, objective principles, giving more operators a chance to find themselves on the retail market. I will not go back to this topic, which weaknesses of Polish entities and entities operating in Poland in this market revealed this tax. We have learned a great deal about this industry, about the fact that purchasing platforms that deliver goods to shelves of small, medium-sized shops, know exactly what margins these shops work on, decide exactly, to the end, on the profitability of their business. Responsibility for such a situation cannot be passed on to the Government of Law and Justice, because decisions to cooperate with one counterparty under the strict penalty of termination of contracts were taken several or more years ago by properly empowered persons either by owners or by cooperatives. Today, this has also become an essential obstacle that has prevented rational thinking about how to create rules that could support small and medium-sized companies operating in this industry. I would therefore no longer like to go back to this discussion. We've brought it up here many times. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the revenue from the tax and the plan of these revenues contained in the draft budget, because this is also what Mrs Czernow asked, we have here an amount of 1.2 billion in the remaining income. This is less than the amount already designed in the impact assessment of the regulation, which followed the basic draft law. This revenue represents a fraction of the percentage of the budgetary revenue of the 2017 budget and we do not expect any disruption to the implementation of the budget in this respect. Besides, the budget is currently being drafted. Other revenues have been estimated in a very conservative way, i.e. with a certain reserve regarding the fact that they may be higher. We have some comfort, because this year, next year, we will be able to wait patiently for what decision will be made by the European Commission and what turn these issues will take in the final decision in the European Commission or the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to thank all the Members who are taking part in the discussion on the draft law amending the Retail Tax Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u111	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. After the break, we will move on to item 5 of the agenda. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 minutes 02 hours 12 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws (prints No 62 and 919). I ask Mr Jan Mosiński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present to the High House the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs concerning the presidential draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws contained in print No 62. The project presented by the President of the Republic of Poland entered the Sejm on 30 November 2015. Its first reading took place at the 4th meeting of the Sejm on 9 December 2015. The High House has addressed this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. At its meeting on 15 December 2015, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy adopted a resolution on a public hearing - at the written request of Members Jan Mosiński, Janusz Śniadek and Piotr Uściński - which took place on 12 January 2015. in the column room of the Sejm. At its meeting on 10 March this year. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, in accordance with Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, appointed an extraordinary subcommittee for the purpose of considering the bill. May 10th this year a subcommittee meeting took place during which all interested parties presented their views. At this meeting, the subcommittee agreed to refer the draft to a special panel set up by the subcommittee, composed of representatives of the applicant, the government party and the Legislative Office for legislative reasons. During the next meetings held on 12 September and 5 October this year, the subcommittee adopted several amendments and adopted the subcommittee report. At its meeting of 3 November this year. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy considered the report of the extraordinary subcommittee on the draft law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As at the first reading of the bill, it is important to stress at the moment what was raised by some members of the committee that the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland coincides with the declaration by Prime Minister Beata Szydło expressed in the exposé that we will return to the general retirement age in force before 1 January 2013. During the drafting of the bill, the age difference between women and men entitled to retire was positively assessed. In the light of the proposed changes, a woman will be able to retire at the age of 60 and a man at the age of 65. I would like to point out that the Constitutional Tribunal found age variation according to the sex of the insured person in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and in its statement of reasons of 15 July 2010 indicated that this was acceptable under European and international law. The principle of equality between women and men does not require that the situation of both sexes is always regulated in a uniform way. This should also be indicated so-called. average life expectancy, as well as average life expectancy in the health of Poles, taking into account people aged 60 and 60+. In the course of the work, some Members indicated that Poland is below the average throughout the European Union in this respect. The work in committee also drew attention to international regulations, namely Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation, to which we are party. The Convention on Minimum Social Security Standards indicates that the fixed retirement age must not exceed 65 years and that a higher age depends on the working capacity of older people in the country concerned. In view of the current health condition of the public, it cannot be recognised, as stressed by the members of the committee, that this condition under International Labour Organisation Convention No 102 has been fulfilled. In other words, it must be stated that the labour market and the public health care system in our country are not prepared to extend the working life of insured persons. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, there has been a claim in public space by Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, as well as other PSL politicians, that the bill under review increases the retirement age for farmers. Well, I would like to correct these false facts, not to say more clearly - lying, information. Firstly, the representative of the Polish People's Party, Mr Jarubas, who participated in the work of the committee and the subcommittee, did not speak in a discussion that would lead to the claim that the project would in fact increase the retirement age for farmers. Secondly, during the drafting of the bill, I did not receive any proposal from Mr Jarubas as chairman of the subcommittee to amend the draft law in this respect. I will say more, I have not received from Mr Jarubas any proposal for an amendment to the bill. The same applies to the work on the project in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. Thirdly, according to the current state of law, with the support of the politicians of the Polish People's Party, farmers increase their retirement age to 67 years for men and women, while at the same time agreeing by the Polish People's Party to abolish the right to early retirement. I will remind you that a woman of 55 years of age and a man of 60 years of age who has 30 years of pension insurance may retire if they fulfil these conditions by 31 December 2017. In other words, High Izbo, after that date, and thus from 1 January 2018, thanks to the policies of the Polish People's Party, farmers will be increased their retirement age to the age of 67. So who actually raised the retirement age for farmers? Who took advantage and then rejected the village? The answer can only be one: Polish People's Party. Luckily, this is a personal digression on my part that the PiS won the election. Otherwise, dear farmers, you'd be up to 67 years old. In conclusion, I would like to stress strongly that there was no increase in the retirement age for farmers in the presidential project as well as in the opinion of the government for this project and there is no mention of any increase in the retirement age for farmers. It is the other way around, and the opinions put forward to improve the reputation of PSL politicians are detrimental to the members of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In summary, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, following a public hearing and consideration at its meetings on 12 January, 10 March and 3 November 2016, of the Presidential draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act and certain other laws contained in print No 62, invites the High Sejm to approve the attached draft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u113	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Beata Mazurek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the report of the committee on the draft Social Insurance Fund Pension Act presented by the President, in print, respectively, No 62 and No 919. Politics is best judged by the way they deliver on their promises and whether they listen to the voice of their citizens. Let me remind you: during the 2011 election campaign, the Civic Platform forgot or was afraid to tell Poles that it wanted to raise the retirement age, although from what I remember, Bronisław Komorowski said that there would be no increase in the retirement age. However, together with PSL, without blinking an eye, she raised her hands behind the antisocial and most striking pension project in women raising the retirement age to 67 years of age, and over 2 million signatures on the pension referendum of that time the government coalition threw in the trash. The bill, which is being conducted in the Seym, together with the report, is the implementation of the next item of the electoral programme, not only of the candidate for President Andrzej Duda's office, but also of the electoral programme of Law and Justice. We listen to the citizens and realize their expectations, as confirmed by the bill under review, and thus reduce or restore the retirement age for women - 60 years old, for men - 65 years old. This will be a fair solution, given several important issues, first of all, that so-called. the average life expectancy does not reflect the health status of potential pensioners. The fact that Poles live statistically longer does not translate into the health of citizens in this age range. Secondly, I would like to draw attention, as the rapporteur has already said, to Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation, which Poland has ratified. According to this convention, a fixed retirement age may not exceed 65 years and a higher one depends on the working capacity of older people in the country concerned. We give Poles a choice - who wants to retire, who has strength, will and work, can continue to work. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, following the next point of the contract concluded with citizens, fulfills their will. By using surveys, it must be confirmed that most citizens want to return to the previous retirement age. Thus, it is difficult to accept the pretentious tone of opposition politicians that the return to the retirement age before 1 January 2013 is an evil and destructive decision for the state budget and the Social Insurance Fund. Some experts believe that the decision to reduce the retirement age is a bold decision with a chance of success. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland coincides with that declared in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło back to the general retirement age, which was in force before 1 January 2013. At the same time, taking advantage of the opportunity offered by the declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I would like to refer to the recent statements of PSL politicians saying that it is the Law and Justice that raises the retirement age of farmers. It's just a lie. In view of the legal situation before 1 January 2013, the Act gave farmers the possibility to move to the so-called "unlimited period of time'. early retirement after meeting certain criteria. These are ladies and gentlemen from PSL, among others. Mr Kosiniak-Kamysz, when he was Deputy Prime Minister, agreed to terminate this right on 31 December 2017, resulting in farmers having to work until 67 years of age from 1 January 2018. It was thanks to PSL, not the politicians of Law and Justice, that Poland's village was used and left to itself. We are changing this not only with the 500+ programme, but also by reducing the retirement age from 67 to 60 for rural women, and not only for rural women, and 65 for men, including farmers. In summary, the Law and Justice Club welcomes not only the bill but also the report, and requests its adoption by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u115	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! During today's debate on retirement age, the government's voice is important, not the President's voice, because the President's voice is not important at all, we have seen in the process of the law on franc credits. So what does the government say about this bill? The Minister's speech in the Social Policy Committee spoke of four important elements in terms of retirement age. Unfortunately, the Minister's statement was a bit like a bullet to the fence, because all the arguments that the Minister put in his statement at the committee meeting were arguments for extending his professional activity rather than shortening it. The first element you were talking about is a security element. The pension shall be granted to the insured person when he is unable to work. The crowning argument repeated here by the Members of the Law and Justice is that life expectancy is increasing, but unfortunately we live longer in poor health, the quality of our lives is not good enough for us to work and our neighbours from the Western European Union are healthier. Minister, have you really run out of imagination to answer the question of why? Maybe medical care is better there? Or maybe the prevention system works better? Maybe children in schools are taught to take care of their health from a child and to take care of a healthy lifestyle? Why doesn't the PiS government want Poles to be healthy any longer? Why don't you direct the billions of zlotys that we're gonna pay unhealthy young pensioners, health programs, preventative programs for people of this age to live longer in good health and work, because work is valuable, work creates wealth for the nation? Maybe it's worth offering these people health leave, sanatoria, all that was meant to be the result of the review of the pension system introduced by the government of the Civic Platform and PSL. Why does the PiS government want the quality of life of an older Pole to still be worse than the quality of life of an older German? That's how you cement things. Why are you finally pretending that you don't know that we're extending our retirement age by three months a year? So women will reach their target age in 2040. Then do you want an older Pole to be sicker than an older German? For 24 years? Well, unless you guys have been in charge for 24 years, but we're not gonna let that happen. Maybe it is worth asking Poles if they do not want to be included in programs that change their competitions to other ones, which allow older people's work to be lighter, not necessarily full-time. This is what pension reviews are supposed to do. This is how our economy is going to change, how the labour market is going to change. Meanwhile, you sentence Poles to life in poor health and starving retirement, because it is really your real electoral promise and you implement it with this law. The Minister spoke of another element: employment. He said that the employment rate of people over 50 years of age in Poland is significantly lower, even by more than 8 percentage points. You have come to the conclusion that the labour market is not prepared for longer working lives. Moreover, a completely irresponsible idea is the desire to preserve this state of affairs for the next few decades. It's like you say that because of the high cancer mortality rate, you send patients home because the hospitals aren't well equipped. How embarrassed are you to introduce a bill that is unfavorable for every individual pensioner? Plus, you're telling Poles that you're doing this for their own good. In fact, this law is proof that you do not mean Poland or the good of Poles. You're talking about the party business. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're willing to promise anything if people vote for you. Shame on you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u117	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jarosław Porwich, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u118	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present my position on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. The project concerns the restoration of the retirement age for women of at least 60 years and for men of at least 65 years old. In 2012, the plan for increasing the general retirement age began to be implemented. The Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity) submitted a request for a national referendum on the maintenance of existing pension solutions of nearly 2.5 million signatures. The PO-PSL coalition at that time simply threw them into the basket and without prior consultation and despite civil opposition, increased the retirement age to 67 years. So many short stories. The Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation adopted by Poland in 2003 recommends that the retirement age should not exceed 65 years. Although the Convention allows a higher age to be determined, it depends on the ability of older people to work in a country. In Poland, the conditions for increasing the retirement age above 65 years of age are not met, i.e. the objective ability of older people to earn work. Although we live longer on average, life expectancy in good health is reduced at the same time, as confirmed by official statistics. The increase in the retirement age had no reasonable grounds other than to save the state budget. As we know, the solution to pension problems is not to raise the retirement age, but to cure the sick pension system and the sick tax system. According to the latest available OECD data in 2013, the average Pole worked 1918 hours. The Pole works longer than the inhabitants of many other countries. Americans spend 130 hours a year less than us - 1788. More than 1,600 hours are spent in the office or factory of the Spanish Swedes, the British, while the French - 1489 hours, Germany - only 1388 hours. This means that Poles work 500 hours a year more than Germany. Therefore, in average, it can be assumed that during 40 years of work Poles will often work as much as some others in 50 years. I am talking about working time here, but a separate element is also the high productivity, i.e. the exploitation of an employee, which is clearly related to the length of his life in good health. The PiS flagship slogan before the elections was to restore the previous retirement age. Also Andrzej Duda, then a candidate for President of the Republic of Poland, made such promises. Moreover, on 5 May 2015, a programme agreement was signed between President Andrzej Duda's candidate for office and the National Commission of the NSZZ The present bill submitted by the President only partially fills in this declaration, as it does not contain provisions on the link between pension rights and traineeships. Therefore, the Kukiz Club hereby amends the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The first part concerns the conversion of the pension. The amendment aims to eliminate the legal consequences introduced by the Law of 11 May 2012 amending the Law on pensions from the FUS and certain other articles. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1b. It led to the fact that the 1953 women's yearbook did not have the opportunity to take an active action that would prevent a much lower benefit from being received. Dysfunction of the provision of the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1b also applies to men born in 1948, as well as to persons from other years of retirement on the basis of special provisions. The second part concerns the so-called. internship pensions. The possibility of a retirement age makes it necessary to treat people with a long-term contribution period separately. This means, in practice, a long period of work, undertaken at a young age and usually of hard physical work. The exploitation of these people's organisms makes it difficult for them to obtain pension benefits at the general retirement age, as they are often pushed out of the labour market as losing their ability to work hard. It can't be that someone's gonna work 20 years and have a pension, and someone who's gonna work 40 years is not gonna have a pension because they're not gonna make it to retirement age. It would just be unfair, unfair. Moreover, if the amount of benefit is taken into account in the new scheme, it should be noted that the retirement age, the metric age, is not the most important factor here, since the pension depends on both the working life and the amount of the contributions paid. Please, Marshal, I'm handing over to you the Kukiz15 amendments for the introduction of [[♪ The bell ♪]] so-called. Internship pensions - for men with 40 years of employment, for women with 35 years of employment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club, will speak next.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have long wondered what I should say from this speaker, because all the facts are well known to the government, and the Members of the PiS, and the President of the Social Security Office. All economists around the world say that extending the retirement age is a direction that is consistent with demographic indicators. We have an ageing society, and the PiS government stubbornly - despite what, I think, was the assumption and intention of the President - does not improve the living conditions of seniors, but with stubbornness, at least, causes future pensioners to be really on starving conditions, with starving pensions to function. I've been wondering for a long time what this is for. There was a reference to the situation in Germany. I don't know if you know this, but serious economists say there to extend the retirement age to 69 and 73 years. And it doesn't result from the fact that they don't have any money for it, it doesn't result from some of their, I don't know, electoral promises, because, as you probably know, our neighbors have a huge budget surplus and they can afford to raise these benefits, but they still don't, because they know that integrating seniors into social life offers more tangible benefits than pushing young, fit people into retirement. But let's move on. The vast majority - and that's what the statistics say - if she has the right to retire at the age of 60, she will simply benefit from it. I know you're gonna explain to me in a minute that it's not gonna happen. pushing out of the labour market that no one will have to leave this labour market. But the truth is that if an employer has a choice to hire a young employee or a person who has a lot of experience, he can take advantage of other privileges, taking into account working conditions, quality of work, all these labour costs, unfortunately people entering retirement age will be pushed out of this market. And that's the fact. And the other part will just want to take advantage of that privilege. This means nothing more than that about a quarter of a million citizens will retire next year. I'm sure that's gonna make the percentage points for the next PiS election, but what are you gonna do next few years? Please note that next year the deficit in the state register is to reach PLN 60 billion. As much as 44 billion is the result of funding from the Social Insurance Fund budget, from which benefits are paid. Without a budget grant to the Social Insurance Fund, this fund would have become insolvent long ago, because the contributions that are in the Social Security Office are simply insufficient. And now on. The paycheck money will be because it has to be - this is a quote from the former Head of the Supervisory Board of the ZUS. But the same ex-boss says in one of the interviews: If the PiS rules a second term, it will have to restore a higher retirement age. There will be no other way, because there will be no money to pay the benefits physically. This is what Mateusz Morawiecki talks about, the Ministry of Finance talks about it, the president of the ZUS talks about it, everyone talks about it, but we stubbornly reduce the retirement age. Honestly, I don't really get it. I'd like the PiS government to think about our children too, about today's 30-, 40-year-olds. And I would like 30- and 40-year-olds to be aware that today's contributions are not on any account, they are immediately used to pay current benefits. Next year, when this lower retirement age starts to apply, these benefits will have to be paid even more. Today, ten people work for one pensioner. In 10 years, two people will work for one pensioner. That's what the demographic indicators say, and it's irresistible. That means you're condemning, ladies and gentlemen, today's 30- and 40-year-olds to retirement at the level of [[♪ The bell ♪]] really hungry. This is humiliating. I appeal if the PiS government introduces this law, so that young people will consider whether it is worth paying ZUS contributions in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u121	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u122	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As usual, the PiS state - I look at the Member, the Member - is missing the truth, I will say it politely. Ladies and gentlemen! I have made an agreement with the public that the retirement age will be reduced, that I will make a legislative initiative on this - whose words are these? President Andrzej Duda, of course. I have the impression that not everyone in the government understood those words, not all of them reached them. How else do you understand the behaviour of the PiS government, which, instead of lowering, increases the retirement age of farmers? President Andrzej Duda in his bill advocated maintaining what had won for PSL farmers, keeping their pension rights. The PiS government deleted this entry. What does that mean? That means you don't respect your president, you ignore his initiative, or maybe you just don't believe that he made good calculations for the bill? Well, we did the math, too. In your decision, the average agricultural family of pensioners will lose about 160,000. zł. But it's more than that, it's much worse, it's about losing dignity, because by raising the retirement age for farmers by five years, you're condemning many of them to work until they die. There are many critical words in the Gospel to the Pharisees. Fr. Mieczysław Lusiak, a Jesuit, wrote in one of his comments to the Bible: God is not required to be worshiped by lips, but by deeds. It is difficult to disagree with the clergyman's words. Today, the PiS behaves like modern Pharisees: under the mantle of reducing the retirement age, it increases it to farmers. In the previous term of office in a difficult coalition with the PSL Platform, farmers were given the opportunity to retire early. Even then we knew that the extension of the retirement age would be felt differently by professors, lawyers or other so-called lawyers. mental workers - they often want to work longer because they earn more than they would have retired. This cannot be said of miners, farmers, workers of construction companies or women working in supermarkets. Therefore, the Polish People's Party fought for at least some of them to retire earlier. And I'll give you a heads-up: we're consistent, because the next step was our retirement project after 40 years of work, a project that gives you the chance to choose and the opportunity to retire the hardest working. You are not interested in this project, just as you have rejected our amendment, which has guaranteed the retirement age for farmers so far. Interestingly, here you are again ignoring your own president. After all, it was Andrew Duda who assured the trade unionists that he would introduce the so-called. the contribution criterion. It is also terrible that you have ignored not only the President, but also your allies of Solidarity. You behave criminally, cheat Poles, tell them otherwise, and do something else. You'll pay the highest penalty for this. If you think that power, sir, is given to you forever, you are wrong. We once again make amendments to maintain pension rights for farmers, to extend them to other groups by introducing a premium criterion, i.e. pensions of 40... [[Eight years...]] ...years of work. We depend on it to vote on the whole thing. And once again, we categorically call you to come to your senses and accept our amendments. These eight years have already come together, sir. You guys rock. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's still up to date.]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u123	Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I have the honour to present my position on the presidential draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. When the retirement age was increased in 2012, many Poles were very dissatisfied. Suddenly there was a change that hit many Polish citizens. The increase and equalisation of the retirement age in Poland in 2012 was not preceded by an appropriate public debate. The main purpose of the law was the economic balance, which was translated by the rulers, among others. Poland's demographic situation. In determining the retirement age, the biological circumstances of the ageing process have not been taken into account, in which the border should be determined primarily by the age at which man is no longer capable of fully efficient work. This important factor has been taken into account in the presidential bill. The contested law also retains the second important factor to be taken into account in determining the retirement age, i.e. the proportion between the insurance period and the benefit collection period. It should also be stressed that the situation on the labour market and the general socio-economic situation of Poland do not justify an increase in the basic retirement age. I agree with the designers that Poles, despite their long lives, are no longer capable of fully efficient work. Therefore, the new concept of the Act restores the retirement age of 60 years for women and 65 years for men until 2012. It should be noted that the change resulting from the reduction in retirement age does not imply retirement at the age of 60 in the case of women and 65 in the case of men. According to the Supreme Court's ruling, reaching the retirement age cannot be the sole reason to terminate the employee's employment contract. Therefore, Polish citizens can, in accordance with the amendment, decide for themselves whether or not to continue their work. In addition to the restoration of the retirement age, the contested law also eliminates a partial pension institution which, due to the reduction in the retirement age, becomes pointless. In view of the restoration of the retirement age of at least 60 years for women and 65 years for men, the Council of Ministers undertakes to review the functioning of the pension system every 3 years and to submit information on the effects of the Act to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland by 31 October of the following calendar year. This very important provision will allow to monitor the possible effects of the amendment on an ongoing basis. The argument for reducing the retirement age is also the Polish tradition related to family support. Although the law imposes a burden on the state budget, its positive social impact and the reduction of social security expenditure, social assistance and health benefits are undeniable. I am pleased that the draft law was so widely discussed and that there was no shortage of public speaking during the process. The Free and Solidarni Circle asks for further proceedings of the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u125	Thank you very much. 23 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Tomasz Nowak, first Member of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A cognitive shock when we're left alone with a pension that we'll get after this new change, a good change. What will this cognitive shock look like when we're alone in our pensions? Here is from the answer to my interpellation, which I received, I learn that in 2025 the average pension will decrease by PLN 725. And then what will be the basket of the basic needs of an older man? What does average mean? What do you mean, the lowest? How are we going to be helpless as older people with this problem, with the happiness you've given us, with the lower retirement age? You have to be in the truth so that cognitive shock isn't dramatic. We should, for example in a referendum, at the moment demand your answer so that each of us will receive an envelope from the Social Security Office with information about what will happen after the introduction of this law, how much exactly I will lose, then you will respect the sovereign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The reduction of the general retirement age to that in force prior to the entry into force of the 2012 amending act is the implementation of the demands of trade unions and our electoral obligations. There was no social consent to increase the retirement age. At the same time, a call was made for the right to early retirement of long-term workers, especially in difficult working conditions. My question is: Has the government worked on assessing the financial viability of the pension system in the long term? Does he intend to consider introducing union requests for traineeships? Will the 500+ programme facilitate the resolution of demographic problems in such a serious way as to affect the financial performance of the pension system? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Latosiński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The previous parliamentary majority, regardless of the protests, regardless of 2.5 million signatures, looked only at the statistics, raising the retirement age against society. In these statistics there were two general informations: that pensioners live longer, as well as that less and less we will work. But why didn't these statistics include the impact on pensions that 11% had on pensions? were working people at risk of extreme poverty, that we had the worst rates in Europe in terms of wages? Hunger stakes were valid: PLN 3.4 I bow to the government, to the President for this project and for the fact that labour law has just been sealed. And I have a question: How much would a man have to work for 4 zlotys an hour to get a minimum pension? This is the basic issue that was to be solved, the third aspect, the social one. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u131	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, for many Poles who have a health problem, whose health does not allow them to work until 67 years of age, this can be good news. But this law also carries many dangers and many dangers. First of all, why would the Ministry of Finance find money to reduce the retirement age? At the moment we already know that in the years 2016 and 2020 an additional minimum of PLN 40 billion will be needed. We know that this will be an even higher amount in the coming years. Is it true that in the case of women, pensions will fall by close to a quarter? Many Poles, who were to receive at the age of 67, 1500 PLN of pension, will receive only 1147 PLN. Is it also true that for many Poles who want to retire early, there will be limited opportunities to work? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u133	Thank you. The question is asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club. There's no envoy. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like you to answer the question from which year is Convention 102, which the PiS government and the Members are so eagerly calling for. I'm not asking you to remind me that the SLD government ratified it under the pressure of trade unions in 2003. I ask, what year is the convention? What was the average life expectancy in the year from which the convention is made, and what is the average life expectancy in Poland today? One more question. If you could tell the High House what you think it should be and what experts think should be in the area of pension systems if there is a difference between your opinion and those opinions... What should be the ratio of the length of insurance to the length of the allowance to make this pension system an effective system? 'Cause I think he's gonna say yes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Minister, that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u135	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u136	...there is a strong correlation between system efficiency and the sustainability of public finances. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The current system is based on the solidarity of generations. It is therefore no secret that current pensioners receive a benefit from contributions from currently active Poles. Nor is it a secret that this amount is insufficient, but is monthly supplemented with the state budget. It is also not a secret that about 38 million Poles currently work for about 16 million people, and about 9 million receive a pension. Do you know how these proportions will change after this law has been introduced? How many pensioners will arrive, and what will their retirement be, or will it allow them to live a decent life? Aren't you afraid of the existing threat that there will be so many people on the labour market in the years to come? What, beyond it, is there a demographic earthquake ahead of us? What will you tell the Poles then? That it was P.O. and P.S.L. or eight years? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u138	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Agnieszka Hanajczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, this pension reform is a beautiful Christmas present and here we should thank you, but I want to ask you a question. This reform coincides with educational reform. You often say that the quality of teaching needs to be improved, that universities are at a low level with us. I would therefore like to ask you why you need the voice of experts, economic experts, social economy experts, demography experts. I would like to ask for the names of experts who will confirm that your reform is a safe reform is a responsible reform. Secondly, I want to ask you how much the replacement threshold will be, because I don't have that kind of information. And the third thing. Can you at this point confirm that the information that comes from the Social Security Office, of course about the hypothetical amount of the pension, is true and reliable? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u140	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't think it makes sense to talk about substantive arguments anymore, because they are known to you, but they don't reach you, because what you're doing today is just about pure populism and such a retreat of the implementation of the electoral password. But maybe I'll try to talk to you in a more human way. Today, on one pensioner, Minister, as I recall, there are about three people working in the labour market. In 2060 it will be one person. If any of you have a child of your own today, a daughter, a son, or a granddaughter, a granddaughter who is 10 years old today, then they will be 54 years old. And then they're gonna have to work double: on the state and on their own pensions. It's not like they're gonna make it. So today, speaking. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on this point, mostly I mean the youngest ones that we often have at home. Why don't you at least think about them? [[Applause]] [[Don't let them go abroad.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u142	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have a question. Minister, how old do farmers retire this year? At what age will they retire next year? 'Cause there were such false words here that we were the ones who extended this age. Tell me. And is it true that since October this age will be extended by five years? It won't be 55 and 60 and 65 years. Is that true? I'm addressing the farmers right now. Does any farmer have an extended retirement period? Has anyone, if they meet, of course, the premium conditions passed through the year? Will this continue next year? So please don't tell such foolishness here that farmers today have an extended retirement age. They will, but since October, if we accept this bill. Yes, Minister? Yes. My further question: Is this the planned one? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the process of winding up the agricultural insurance system?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u144	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u145	'Cause they keep saying there's gotta be one... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Is this the beginning of the KRUS being wiped out? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, with all the principals in the back! My question is what are all those who expect early retirement - first of all, how much will their retirement be? - and they don't believe, they really don't believe it's gonna be that low. Then I would like the Minister to tell us how much their pension will be. Second question. Why do you, as one of the largest employers, push people out of the labour market? Today, the finance minister said that 5,000 would leave the tax office. persons. This is for you and those who work, are qualified, pushed out of the labour market. How will you find an additional PLN 40 billion in the budget to introduce this system and not raise [[♪ The bell ♪]] social security contributions for the young generation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u147	Thank you. The question is asked by Edward Sulphur, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The President's draft law on the reduction of the retirement age, the restoration of its amount before 2012, is the project that is most expected by society. If during the parliamentary practice I met people who were often not even interested in politics, they were not interested in what was happening on a good case every day in the Sejm, then passing and extending the retirement age was the moment when they really became interested in it. Often for many people it was a wall, they did not imagine that they had to retire at the age of 67. Therefore, the restoration of this century is the most important thing that society expects of us, from the Polish parliament. We often forget about the fact that the state has also abolished pensions. Pillar II, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And for a good cause, the third pillar was destroyed. Therefore, does the government envisage any action to restore voluntary insurance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u149	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill submitted by your President is, of course, expected by many professional circles. The previous law introduced by PO and PSL was unfair, hurting many Poles, especially women. Here, the opposition asks questions about numbers, numbers, the state of the budget, whether we can afford or not to implement this law. I will try to answer you, using the words of the Member who just spoke, and to speak to the imagination. Can you imagine a 67-year-old nurse who works in a hospital and needs to take care of little children? Many times she herself has various kinds of health problems, not to mention her psychophysical condition resulting from age. [[It's gonna be 2040.]] The present law gives them an opportunity. They can benefit from retirement early, but they can also continue to work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the kind of choice the president has in the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u151	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u152	I have a question as to whether the current law gives the possibility to combine work with retirement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u153	Now the question is asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u154	Today is one of the following days, in which the lies of the PiS are exposed, the electoral lies of the PiS, especially directed to the Polish village, which was needed only to get a good election result to exercise power. You've already forgotten that today. This is the next day you show that you don't need the village. Even this event, which took place a few days ago, was only to raise your ratings to show your alleged love for this environment. Today, you are raising the retirement age for farmers by 5 years, for women up to 60 years old, for men up to 65 years old. You condemn these people for a long time in the difficult conditions under which agricultural production is carried out, but this is just a matter of political integrity, electoral integrity. But you're doing even worse with this bill. Namely you stop the process of transformation of the Polish village, you tell farmers to work longer and then transfer the farms to successors. You're showing this bill that only 40-year-old men will be able to take over the farms. You are inhibiting the development of Polish agriculture. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a harmful activity, and in addition you are systematically cheating the Polish village. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u155	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Beata Mazurek, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I guess bigger crooks than my previous speaker and coalitionists weren't. But let's cut to the chase. Without social acceptance, without consultation Platform together with PSL raised retirement age to 67 years old, compulsory retirement age. Isn't that right, Minister? You didn't care about the health of Poles at the time. Today, it is on your heart. [[In 2040, you don't understand.]] We are happy, but the mandatory retirement age is due to Platform and PSL. The current proposal of Law and Justice reducing retirement age to 60 and 65 gives Poles a choice. If they want to retire, if they have a job, they have health, they can work. Isn't that right, Minister? Another question. Will the Social Insurance Fund budget bear this reform financially? What is the financial condition of this fund? Could you tell me what she used to look like and what she looks like today? That this fund is in deficit, we know not from now on. Another thing. Whatever you want. [[♪ The bell ♪]] promote a reduction in the retirement age, which means that this is a choice rather than an obligation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u157	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Urszula Pasławska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u158	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Friends of the PiS! First question: Where are you? [[Here! And how many of us are there?]] There is a debate on raising the retirement age. So few Members of Law and Justice are interested in this vote to raise the retirement age of farmers. After all, just a few days ago at Witos's grave you thanked the farmers quite sincerely, but today you thank them really sincerely. Honestly, because it's an act, not just a word. You're raising the retirement age for farmers. A few days ago, your president told me that you wanted to be a continuation of the value of the Polish folk movement. Today, however, you prove that you have nothing in common with the folk movement, feel nothing, do not understand the Polish village or the specifics of the farmer's work. If any of you really knew that, you would never have thought of raising the retirement age for farmers. So I suggest you go to the country, talk to the hosts, see, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That they don't have free Saturdays, free Sundays, school holidays... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u159	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u160	...you introduce CET, you lie to the farmers in the election campaign. [[Applause]] [[Ula, what are you talking about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u161	Member, please leave the stand. Madam, your time is up, don't shout, just get off the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Madam, just for the sake of your blessed condition, I will not refer to your speech, your respect for the woman and your blessed condition. But to your colleagues: you sold the Polish village for warm sons, staying in the coalition. [[Touchdown, applause]] What prevented Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, Mr Jarubas and others from entering into this law, which is still in force today, the perpetuity of privilege? What's the matter with you? [[What's bothering you?]] You're hypocrites, and you can't buy that anymore. Your rejtan moves are dog-to-house. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Does the legislative action so far, the desensitisation of civil law agreements, allow the argument that, in some time's time, the funds to the fund will increase and not lead to an increasing deficit, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which has been going on for many, many years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To Mr Mosiński: What bothers you that the draft law of Mr Duda is changing to the detriment of farmers? Why don't you keep the record that Mr. President included in this project? I'll get back to the questions. Well, today we're talking about a bill or a bill that is apparently expected, seemingly good. It's worth emphasising here, and it's a thick line: seemingly. About the aspects of the condition of the FUS, ZUS my colleagues talked about, and I want to bore you to ask once again, the question about this professional group of farmers, for whom this project does not even retain appearances. You're cheating, the P.I.S. state, directly and impudently. You're talking about a reduction, and you're raising it by five years for women and five years for men farmers. Scientists have proven that two professions require the greatest effort, physical effort. It is a miner and a farmer. In which farmers are in the eyes of PiS worse than miners, [[♪ The bell ♪]] No one's taking a pension?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u165	The question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u166	Plus, we're all paying for the hard-earned mines. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u167	...a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u168	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Many times from this speaker, many times in the speeches of representatives of the Law and Justice, prominent, bosses, there have been words about the hard work of the farmer, the hard work of the people of this professional group. Then why, if you think, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, that everything has been done so badly in the previous period, do you not want to keep the record that it was? Why should the retirement age be increased as a punishment? And the question is, is it starting to take back the powers of each other's professional groups? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will you do the same to the miners? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u169	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Continuators of the Polish folk movement, for which you have been declaring yourselves for several days, would not raise the retirement age of Polish farmers, because the Polish folk movement continues to know the specifics of the work of farmers. That's one thing. I would like to ask you, Minister, with a question, because I saw the spinning heads of Members and Members of the PiS during the speech by Mr Krystian Jarubas, who made it clear that the average agricultural family would lose about 160,000 over this extended period of work for five years. zł. I'd like to ask and ask. Do you have any estimates? Introduce from the Ministry's side how these costs are shaped. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u171	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of the workers would like to retire as soon as possible. It will be possible, and rightly so. There is some logic in this, but there is no logic and consequence in terms of the proposed age, because since the average age of life for women is 82 years, men are 74 years old, which is 8 years less, and the proposed retirement age is 65 years for men and 60 years for women, the question arises as to why you treat men twice as badly as women, because this age of average retirement for men is 9 years old and for women 22 years old. What are we worse at? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u173	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The current pension system, the current law, provides for an investigation until the age of 67 in 2040. Therefore, a comparison should be made when considering the current project, as will be the case in 2040 according to the current project and according to what is currently in force, if pensions are lower, if there is a higher public finance deficit, if there is less employment in the labour market. You did not provide all this information honestly and honestly. How will the average pensioner's pension be estimated in 2040 compared to the pension in the system currently in force? Are these pensions going to be 20% lower or 30% lower? If the public finance deficit increases and will it replace other measures: health, education, infrastructure? What's it gonna be like in the labour market? How many fewer people will work in Poland? We expect all these consequences to be presented to us in 2040. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u175	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a request for the government. Maybe someone would be so kind and PiS Members explained the difference between retirement and incapacity benefits. These are two different benefits, they are otherwise written, from other funds are these funds. Because repeating these questions, what is a nurse supposed to do, who is physically ill at work... He's got to get sick leave, work disability pension or something. But I'm asking you to explain, because you can see that here in PiS there's just no reason to know the subject. And second question. I have a favor to ask. As the analysis of the president of the Social Security Office on the level of women's pensions is well known, I would like the Minister to tell the Polish women what their average pension will be in 2030. Does this have anything to do with the fact that you plan to introduce a minimum pension of PLN 1000? Let me remind you that this is 1000 PLN gross. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And is the government planning any future changes in the pension system? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u177	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The PiS extends the retirement age of farmers without consultation, without dialogue. Do you think that extending the retirement age for farmers will not block generation change in many farms? And question two. Whether PiS likes it or not, the Polish People's Party, having only 31 Members, has won pension rights for farmers aged 55 years - for women and 60 years - for men. Consequently, we want to extend these pension rights to the hardest working groups, proposing to introduce a contribution criterion: retirement after 40 years of work. What is very important is that this would apply to all those working in different professions. This proposal is supported by trade unions, which, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Looks like the PiS cheated. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u179	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking you for all the votes that have been cast in the discussion on the presidential bill amending the Social Insurance Fund pension law. I would like to thank you for the questions raised, because they concern, you can say, the key elements of the pension system. In view of the number of questions, I would like to comment on the main points of this discussion. During the debate, there was a question of pension risk in the context, it can be said that there is a difference between the risk of reaching retirement age and the risk of incapacity for work. It can be said that the characteristics of the risk of reaching retirement age or pension risk are conventional. This conventionality means otherwise incompetence, it means that we, either by sending or not sending the insured person a pension, do not individually assess his health, we do not individually assess his ability to work, we do not assess whether he has already individually fulfilled the condition of reaching an old age or not, we merely determine, in a sense, average this condition, we determine this condition in general for the whole of society. So from this point of view, the elements that we justify as a government the support of the presidential bill reducing retirement age are important. I am referring to the element of the security that says that, by setting this conventional limit of the retirement age, we must take into account the average age after which insurance loses its ability to work, while, of course, maintaining this difference as regards the mere assessment of the fulfilment of the condition of reaching the retirement age. Other elements that have also been highlighted in the official position of the Council of Ministers: this retirement age must be set at such a level as to maintain the proportion between the period of insurance and the period of retirement. According to the Government, these proportions are maintained in a situation where the retirement age would return to the level in force by the end of 2012. [[Almost 1 to 1.]] The issue of health status arises naturally during this discussion and is also related to the content of Convention No 102 on minimum social security standards. I remember exactly the contents of the article. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 of this Convention, which provides that the retirement age limit should not exceed 65 years of age, unless - and this is the only condition permitted by the Convention - the health situation of society is that most of the population, it can be said, retains the ability to work beyond that age limit. Thus, from the official position of the Council of Ministers, this condition has not been met in our country. [[And what year is this convention?]] The convention is from 1952, and I would like to say that we have... [[It's gonna be 100 years soon.]] In general, as we read in the statement of reasons for the bill of 11 May 2012, the law that raised the retirement age, we will conclude that you have overlooked the issue of the International Labour Organisation Convention at all. After reading the explanatory memorandum, we conclude that this is a purely economic justification, that you followed only economic considerations, i.e. to reduce expenditure on benefits. [[That's not true.]] You have not pointed out that Poland is covered by Convention No 102, including Article. 26b that Poland has not ratified Convention 128 of the International Labour Organisation, which gives more scope to apply exceptions to this limit of 65 years as retirement age, among others. This is the element that you referred to in the explanatory memorandum of the bill of 11 May 2012, i.e. the financial situation of the insurance fund. So that this is not actually a link to a government that takes into account the international commitments of our country. [[This time, once.]] [[And your health hasn't changed?]] Other issues that emerged during the discussion. He returns, of course, and has returned several times in the form of a question asked by several Members of the Polish People's Party, the problem of the alleged increase in the retirement age of farmers. You have the right to ask questions, so let me ask you a question, too. [[The Minister doesn't have that right.]] The presidential bill amending the Social Insurance Fund's pension law provides for a reduction in the retirement age from a target of 67 years, this ceiling will be reached in 2040 for both sexes, up to 60 years for women and 65 years for men. This solution, the establishment of the presidential project, concerns both persons covered by the general pension scheme and farmers, persons covered by the farmers' pension scheme. The project as it left the committee also provides for the maintenance of a provision which was introduced by the coalition forces of the Civic Platform and the PSL, which provides that early retirement is possible, i.e. When a woman reaches 55 years of age and a male of 60 years of age is also satisfied with certain internship requirements, she will be maintained until the end of 2017. I ask you to answer the question: To what extent does the presidential project provide for an increase in the retirement age, since it assumes a reduction in the retirement age for all insured people... [[Voice from the Chamber: This is an amendment of the PSL.]] ...including farmers, as well as the behaviour or respect for the decision made by the State in the previous term of the Sejm, to terminate the possibility for farmers to retire at the end of 2017 after the age of 55 by women and 60 by men? In the course of the discussion there were also threads on the financial situation of the social security system or the Social Insurance Fund. This is, of course, an expression of the concern of all countries for the condition or balance of the public finance system, which is understandable. I would like to say that caring for the financial balance of the social security system should not only mean caring that the expenditure on benefits should not be too high. This concern should also mean that the income of the Social Insurance Fund should be sufficiently high. [[What do you do with income?]] Here's what I'm gonna say. If I hear doubt, even an appeal from one of the Members, the question whether it pays to pay social security contributions, I am indeed surprised. It can be said that the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the income of the Social Insurance Fund is shaped at the right level. [[I don't think you did.]] I am talking about changes in the area of labour law, taking care of, you can say, the application of appropriate employment bases. We know that in previous years we have faced such a policy of turning a blind eye to various kinds of pathological situations in the labour market, various types of abuse. [[That's not true.]] A number of actions, which the government first took, are aimed at ordering the situation on the labour market. The effects of these actions are also visible in the sphere of income of the Social Insurance Fund. [[But this bill will lower that revenue.]] The same is true when it comes to responding to the demographic challenges we can face in the pension system. [[This bill, Minister... if fewer people work, it'll be less money out of contributions.]] Of course, the 500+ programme, which the government has introduced and successfully implemented, is a response to the challenge of low fertility rates. We know that these fertility rates are highly unsatisfactory - 1.29 . This does not ensure the maintenance of the so-called. It's generational surrogacy. There is a need for intensive action to improve these fertility rates so that this generation of people who will pay social security contributions in the future is as numerous as possible. And here, to be honest, I also see some consistency and some systemic solutions. We can't just make sure that the expenses aren't too high. We must also take care of this revenue side, also to ensure that the financial potential of this generation, which will fund pension contributions in the future, is as high as possible. There is another thread that has been scrolling through in many speeches, namely a thread on the amount of future pension benefits. In part, there were statements about starving pensions, the truth, or the wording that the government is going to reduce pension benefits. I would like to say that today's pension-setting mechanism, which is currently in force - which does not apply to farmers - was introduced in 1999 as a mechanism known as the formula of the defined contribution. This is a mechanism that correlates the amount of the pension, directly, both with the amount of contributions, and this is a consequence of the revenue generated, as well as the length of the period of payment of social security contributions and the moment of the decision to terminate the working life and retire. If I had a short, synthetic answer to the question of the amount of future pensions after the entry into force, after the adoption and entry into force of the presidential bill amending the Social Insurance Fund pension law, I would say that it will be very different, because it will depend on these three factors, these three parameters that I mentioned earlier. And to conclude, there's one more thread I'd like to refer to. Namely, in several statements there was a reference to the retirement age, to the legal solutions which were introduced and which are planned in the German system. I would like to say that, by referring to German models, to this German model, you have to be very careful, because I know perfectly well the history of the decision to increase the retirement age in Germany. This decision was taken in 2007. This decision entered into force, of course the decision of the German Parliament, 5 years after the adoption of the law. This decision whether or not the decision entered into force meant that 5 years after the law was passed it began gradually, breaking it down for many years, increasing the retirement age to 67 years. I would like to say that the decision that was taken in Germany in this regard was a decision preceded by a long-term social debate, a long-term expert debate. The question arises as to whether these standards were preserved when deciding to increase the retirement age in Poland. One could say that the topic, the problem of increasing the retirement age or its announcement appeared in October 2011 after the election was won by the Civic Platform coalition and the Polish People's Party. This period during which a draft law was being developed to raise retirement age was very short. You are calling for a referendum. I remember here, in this Chamber, the decision was made whether or not to hold a referendum on the increase in the retirement age, when the trade unionists from The question is why you did not then take such a decision where the decision to increase the retirement age was not preceded by a discussion either substantive or expert or social. So that I say: as far as German patterns are concerned, I could still talk about this for a long time. Germany has a different pension system. They don't have this formula for a defined contribution. [[Well, that's all the more reason.]] They calculate retirement according to, you can say, a more favourable mechanism. So, as I said, referring to German patterns, you have to be very careful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u181	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Surówka-Pasek, Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic, will now speak. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal! I am only asking you to answer in writing because I have asked two specific non-political questions. Minister, please respond in writing.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: With pleasure.]] [[Thank you.]] You're welcome now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u182	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to address some of the issues raised during the discussion. First of all, the point raised is that people will be pushed out of the labour market. I will remind you once again, because maybe some people have not had the opportunity to get a thorough knowledge of the project, that it is supposed to be the right to retire after reaching this age, not the obligation. Moreover, the amount of the pension which some of you have so regretted here, as the Minister rightly said, will depend on several factors, not only on the duration of the contribution period, but also on the amount of insurance contributions. I will admit that I am disarmed by the complaining of Members over the amount of pensions, when the average Pole has a salary much lower than the parliamentary salary and works much harder and longer. Therefore, I would very much ask you to take into account the conditions under which normal, statistical Poles work and in which you have the opportunity to work. [[Talk to the opposition, not everyone.]] This is why it is worth considering, because Poles are a nation that is overworked, relatively poorly rewarded, and this is what makes pensions, in the opinion of the opposition, so low. So that's the real problem. Don't look for the main problem here at retirement age, because that's not the point. Here's another thing. I am also disarmed by what the PSL Members say, especially as regards how fiercely they fought for a lower retirement age for farmers. May I remind you of the results of the vote on the bill that you then carried out through Parliament with your coalitionist. 27 members of the PSL voted in favour of this law, which, on the one hand, took away the possibility of early retirement from farmers, on the other, increased the retirement age to 67 years of age. Only one person from your club voted against this change. Therefore, it is really quite hypocritical to say at this point that PSL was fighting to the end for a lower retirement age and for lower pensions. The presidential project maintains this status quo, which is currently in force, i.e. that farmers will be able to retire according to these more favourable rules until 31 December 2017. [[Which bill is better?]] There you go. You know perfectly well. In this bill, which you voted for with the Civic Platform. [[Exactly.]] Therefore, I am very surprised that you made up your mind and suddenly said that this was not a good solution. You should have done that. Then tell me. In addition, in your previous term of office as part of the electoral campaign you were running, you tried to submit a bill that provided for retirement after 40 years of premium periods. I am surprised that you, as a coalitionist, did not submit this project as a government project, but submitted it as Members. So this is the obvious outcome of the fight, but already political, pre-election struggle. I therefore request and ask the High House to adopt a proposal to reduce the retirement age as it was developed during the work of the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u183	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jan Mosiński, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I understand that this first part of the statement by the Minister concerned Members of the opposition, not Members of the Law and Justice, because it sounded as if we too were guilty of such a thing as it is now. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The legislative work lasted about 3 weeks, from the bill to its signature by the President of the Republic of Poland and the promotion. I'm talking about the bill where the Platform together with PSL increased the retirement age: 3 weeks. They were in such a hurry, given the interests of farmers, villagers, towns and cities. But there is some added value in this bad law, which is in the current legal order, namely the unity of the Land movement. It was thanks to your initiative on the streets of Warsaw during your 8 years that most manifestations came out in defence of workers' rights and trade union rights. [[Applause]] Without blinking your eyes, you cut 2 million signatures under a referendum request. As the Minister mentioned here, there were votes for a referendum. Then why did you reject President Andrzej Duda's request in the Senate to hold a national pension referendum when pensions are an important social issue? What were you afraid of? You were afraid society would repeat what we were doing today. That's what you were afraid of, nothing more. Loop, street hooligan, watchdog - it was you, politicians of PSL, together with the Platform that you called Andrzej Duda, sorry very much, Piotr Duda, leader of union protests in the streets of Warsaw. [[Applause]] Loop, street hooligan, those are your words. And today you have the audacity, Mr PSL Members, to take care of the Solidarity. Hypocrisy and the Himalayas of this hypocrisy. It's delusional. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Don't worry about that. Our relations with the trade union movement, the Solidarity Forum, the Trade Union Forum, OPZZ are good. They don't have to be the best, but they're good, because we're talking to them as opposed to your leader Kosiniak-Kamesha. As Deputy Prime Minister, the Member was the chairman of the Social Dialogue of the Tripartite Committee. So? He disassembled this social dialogue, even turned it into a mess. [[Applause]] That's another so-called. the added value of your activities. Members of the PSL have made proposals for change today. I read them. Ladies and gentlemen, what have you been doing for eight years? Mr Jarubas says: this is already a broken record. No, it's the hump on your back, the hump of responsibility for the Polish village. I'll tell you what you've been doing for eight years: eating caviar with spoons. Today, on the other hand, you are wearing costumes to protect the interests of the Polish village. I already said at the beginning of the meeting on this point: the Polish farmer can count. Polish farmer can analyze. You've already been shown a yellow card. You want a red one? Then vote against this bill. No one's forcing you to vote for him. [[Voice from the room: Retirement age.]] [[Yes, sir.]] Mrs Kamińska asked how to get finance. This was something to be thought of before raising the retirement age. What is it? Since subsidies to the Social Insurance Fund, High Izbo, in 2016 and 2019, taking into account the current growth dynamics, are likely to increase at a rate of around 10% per year regardless of whether or not there would be a reduction in the retirement age. [[That's not true.]] Whether we'd lower the retirement age or not for a few years by 10% , no more, will increase the grant to the Social Insurance Fund. [[And then what?]] I can boldly put this thesis here in the Sejm today: this time will certainly have a positive impact on it, will increase the influence from the loosening of civil law contracts and we will watch the payment under the table by many employers, because it harms the Polish world of work and also harms the villagers. To conclude, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I have a proposal for opposition, for PSL and for the Civic Platform. You voted against 500+, you voted against life. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ... [[Voice from the Chamber: Who voted? PSL voted in favour.]] ...you voted to tighten up social policy. I propose to you: vote also in favour of not lowering the retirement age, and then the Polish village will thank you completely, completely for it. Do it, have the courage. Put down the spoons full of caviar and do it. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Don't insult us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u185	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u186	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today we are debating a presidential bill restoring the previous retirement age. As proposed by the President, women are to retire at the age of 60 and men at the age of 65. Currently, the retirement age is 67 years irrespective of gender, rising gradually. It will be achieved by women in 2040 and by men in 2020. I have a question. Is it possible to write in the law about unlocking the article. 88 Teacher's Cards: Teachers with a 30-year period of employment, including 20 years of working in a special capacity, and teachers of schools, institutions, special establishments and juvenile correction facilities, including 20 years of working in a special education capacity, may, upon termination of their employment relationship, retire. Such a record would be in the current situation, as is the case in relation to demographic than, at least for a transitional period. [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] Due to the fact that during the second reading it was reported to... (Voices from the hall: Mr. Marshal...) ...the draft amendment proposed, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy... [[Thank you, Marshal.]] ...for the purpose of reporting. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on combating unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products (prints No 790 and No 983). I ask Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch to present a report to the committee. Rapporteur: Mr Goloyuch Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on the Prevention of Unfair Use of Contractual Advantage in Trade in Agricultural and Food Products, print No 790. The aim of this bill is to eliminate unfair commercial practices from the supply chain of agricultural raw materials and food. The draft law applies only to suppliers of agricultural and food products due to the specific nature of the agri-food industry consisting in the production of goods which are characterised by a specific shelf-life date, which does not exist in other industries. The joint committees gathered on the day... This project was addressed by the Marshal of the Sejm on 14 September 2016 to the joint committees, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. The joint committees referred the draft to the subcommittee chosen by these committees. The extraordinary subcommittee, after consideration at its meetings on 22 September, 21 October and 3 November 2016 of the Government's draft law against unfair exploitation of the contract advantage in trade in agricultural and food products, presented the attached draft to the Sejm. I would add that, in the work of both the committee and the subcommittee, the Members and the Social Party did not question the need for the law to prevent unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. Of course, it was not without discussion, without comments. The discussion took place, as I said before, in the subcommittee and in the committee. Seven amendments were adopted during the process, including: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Amendment 1 concerned clarification of the definition. Draft Print Act No 790 proposes the following changes to the definition: supplier, i.e. supplier, is understood to be an entrepreneur who manufactures or processes agricultural or food products or sells them for consideration to the buyer and the buyer - that is to say, an entrepreneur who directly or indirectly acquires agricultural or food products from the supplier for the purpose of sale, resale or processing. Amendment 2 concerned the correction of the reference. As regards the third amendment, it concerned the clarification of the characteristics of the verification activities. The point was that the director of the field branch of the agency competent according to the place of residence of the buyer carries out activities to verify compliance with the obligation to conclude contracts. Another amendment, the fourth amendment, which clarifies the authorising provision in relation to... This was a minimum period from contract to delivery with a view to ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. As regards the 5th amendment, the definition of the fine was amended here and conditions were added to determine the circumstances relating to the amount of the penalty. The 6th amendment clarifies the characteristics of the local Agricultural Market Agency. The point here is that the director of the field branch of the agency responsible for the place of residence or residence of the buyer - that was the point - makes fines by means of an administrative decision. This is about the director of the Agricultural Market Agency. We're moving on to the last seven. This 7th amendment sets the date of entry into force. The law shall enter into force six months after the date of publication, except for Article. 41, which shall enter into force 30 days from the date of the announcement. As I said earlier, on 3 November 2016, the joint committees, i.e. the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, adopted the report of the committee, which was also provided to the State. So that the committees at the meeting on 3 November considered and adopted all the comments which were addressed by the subcommittee. Thank you very much. Deputy Marshal Richard Terlecki Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want to present the opinion of the Law and Justice Club on this very important and long-awaited law, regulation. It responds mainly to the expectations of suppliers of agricultural raw materials, agricultural products and foodstuffs, because it also fell from this speaker many, many times - the position in the food chain, which we define: from field to table, the position of agricultural producers and producers of food products is the weakest. This chain would not have functioned if they had not produced products, whereas in the process of processing and trade their position is very often the weakest and they obtain a minimum, often non-covering cost of producing income. There are also - unfortunately, this is a phenomenon that has not been managed over the years of transformation - to remove entrepreneurs who are directly out of crime carrying out their interests. After all, we know companies - there are many in Poland - which bought products from suppliers, paying the first tranche, and then companies fell and it was not possible to enforce it under existing law. When farmers reported it to the authorities, reported it to the justice system, they often saw their hands folded: it's hard, they can't fix anything anymore, they're not able to enforce anything, companies with limited liability have such small capital, and there's no way to recover from the company's shareholders' assets. Therefore, this law, which provides a very real tool in the form of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which can initiate proceedings both ex officio and as a result of a written request by traders, is a good solution. This applies primarily to large turnovers where the annual turnover in the year of the notification or in two consecutive years, in each of these years separately, exceeds 50,000. zł. This is not about - I apologize for colloquialism - those who trade small-scale parsley. These are important agricultural producers who could be in such situations. This applies to large companies, both commercial and customers, whose turnover exceeds PLN 100 million per year. The Act does not, of course, apply to members of cooperatives who are trading with their own cooperatives or to members of producer groups. It's natural, that's where it's regulated by other mechanisms. The Act also clarifies the use of the contractual advantage, in particular the unjustified termination of the contract or threat of termination of the contract, the assignment of only one party to the right to terminate the contract or to make the conclusion or continuation of the contract subject to other benefits. This is particularly noticeable in supermarket networks, where you try to force other benefits on suppliers, not related to this product. This law treats it as an unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage. The President of the UOKiK, as I have already mentioned, initiates proceedings of his own motion, which may also be preceded by an investigation. They have also been defined - this is a good indication of the legislator - the time limits when these proceedings must end. They can't last forever, they're precisely defined, and it has to end either by acknowledging that there was no unfair advantage, or by imposing penalties. Punishment is annoying, but it's supposed to be preventive. The imposition of a penalty on a company that is proven to be unfairly competitive, as well as on persons running the company, is a matter of the utmost importance. The aim is to eliminate the pathology in economic trade, eliminate the unfair exploitation of advantages, in which, as I mentioned at the beginning, above all food producers, with a weaker position, lose and all this affects their condition. That's why this bill is so expected. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, I would also like to thank the subcommittee and its President, Mr Gołojuch, for the great work that has been done. This law deserves all its backing, and our club will support it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u188	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dunin, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are considering printing 790 at the second reading, and in fact the report of the Committee on Printing No 983 on the prevention of unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. As I said in the subcommittee, because I was a member of the subcommittee, the bill is actually needed. It's needed, I don't change my mind, the bill is needed. We know what it looked like, what it might look like in the future, so I was very happy when the project came in. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, good intentions are hell paved, and the best example is this law. The Supreme Court has already pointed out in its opinion that there are many generalities and imperfections in the bill you are proposing. I will not refer to all these comments, because there are so many of them that I would be running out of time. I'll tell you one thing. It's like my hair's already falling out because you were trying to make an amendment to the article in the back door. 32a, where you wanted to impose additional fees on economic operators to actually pay to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. This is unacceptable and only thanks to, among others. to my firm voice, but also to the invited guests, fortunately, you have withdrawn from this amendment. In view of the fact that this law is needed, as I said at the outset, industry representatives who were guests at the meeting and subcommittees and committees also agreed to such a law. I have 12 amendments to this bill, and I think that although it will be partially possible to improve this bill, because, as I said at the outset, you are pouring out the baby with a bath. With regard to the fees that may be imposed by the President, the indeterminate legal wording contained in this Act may cause that, with a penalty of 3% of turnover imposed on the company, some companies will simply be closed down and people working there will lose their jobs. This is unacceptable. Another element of the bill, where there is an unacceptable thing for me - but I think that for you too, if you would like to think and listen to the voices of the opposition, in this case my club - is art. 32. It is so imprecise and gives such possibilities of interpretation that a man's hair on his head is really spinning. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to prolong, Mr. Marshal, I will present to you the amendments prepared by the Civic Platform Club. The Civic Platform's support or not depends on the adoption of these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Mordak, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law against unfair exploitation of the advantage of contracts in the marketing of agricultural and food products, print No 790. The main objective of this bill is to eliminate unfair commercial practices between buyers and suppliers of agri-food products and between suppliers and buyers at each stage of the supply chain. It should be pointed out that the law is intended to work both ways. Today, the stronger side - large commercial networks, supermarkets - often use their advantage against the weaker ones, which are suppliers. The principle that it is the buyer who decides on prices, often below the cost of manufacturing of goods, has become common practice. Farmers often raise the problem of unfair contract terms, of forcing unfair cooperation rules by commercial networks, and the rules in force, whether it be the Civil Code, which lists in detail the prohibited contractual clauses, or the provisions of the Act on Combating Unfair Competition, or the Code of Good Practice, do not sufficiently secure the position of the supplier's farmer. The imbalance between the parties to the agreement is affected by the strength and size which large commercial networks are commonly used by the farmer. In this respect, the effects of such measures, namely the reduction in the quality of food products, the deterioration of the financial situation of suppliers and their investment potential, are not taken into account. Ultimately, the negative consequences of this type of practice are borne by unaware consumers, that is, all of us. It therefore appears that one of the main objectives of this project, namely to increase the powers of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which will be able, inter alia, to increase the powers of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. impose a penalty on the supplier or the buyer, in particular a preventive function, i.e. By scaring away, they tend to obey the law. Such powers, in particular the right to impose severe penalties, are reasonable if they are subject to scrutiny. Supervision is important for several reasons, but the most important is ensuring regularity and eliminating discretion in imposing penalties. The second important element is the severity of sanctions. Only the penalty that the punished will suffer will have the desired effect, i.e. prevent similar infringements in the future. Therefore, in my opinion, it is only up to 3% of the amount of the fine. the turnover achieved in the financial year preceding the year of application of the penalty should be clarified by introducing a range from - to so that the penalty is sure and unavoidable. I think that the greatest benefit of adopting this Act will be to eliminate the feeling of harm in farmers, because their position in the supply chain of agricultural and food products is very weak. Unfortunately, they are often abused and deceived because of this. In general, contractors do not treat farmers as equal partners, purchases lower agricultural prices, dairy and slaughterhouses do not care about ensuring a good price for their suppliers, because they import products from abroad at lower prices, and plant protection products and fertilisers vendors raise prices without any reasonable justification. Recently, farmers are also complaining that the tax authorities are asking them to return VAT when the company that sold the fuel to the farmer has fallen or simply ceased its activities in unexplained circumstances. Thus, even the authorities of a country unscrupulously exploit the weakness of the position of farmers. Therefore, I believe that this law should be an incentive to align the status of farmers with the status of other operators in the supply chain and to encourage further action in this direction. In view of the above, I would like to present to the Marshal an amendment to this law. Kukiz,15 will vote in favour of this law depending on the examination of these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u192	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is true that the law regulating a bit, you can say, the Wild West at some moments in Polish trade... It would be worth regulating and many social parties - I am not talking about political parties and politicians anymore, but about those who participate in this trade every day - had very high hopes with this law. Unfortunately, in the work of the subcommittee, as well as the committee, the voice of the social side, and I am not talking here about representatives of the market chain, but also about representatives of suppliers, producers... [[It's an industrial one.]] ...who trade with commercial networks on a daily basis has not been taken into account at all. Of course, Law and Justice were also closed to amend this law by opposition clubs, both in the work of the subcommittee and later of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development working together with the economic commission. What did this lead to? This has led to the fact that the bill, just as evil has come into the Sejm, has changed so little today. These regulations, which you are proposing today, can do nothing but weaken the position of Polish suppliers, already today, and so often weaker in relation to the hypermarket network. Why? Because these regulations will only encourage the chains of markets, hypermarkets to shop with intermediaries registered outside the country, or perhaps even with foreign producers and processors. Instead of shortening the supply chain, which I was talking about here at first reading, we're just going to extend it. We will extend it because anyone who is to be subject to the rigour of this law will want to eliminate their risks and will therefore reduce the number of suppliers with which it cooperates on a daily basis in order to minimise the risk. Of course, the disgraceful situation is that, while working on this bill, you proposed to push the parataxes through. Unfortunately, after a year of exercising power, the Law and Justice seek every possible way, in panic, how to draw money from taxpayers, including others. from Polish entrepreneurs. You say that you want to support entrepreneurs, and you really want to finance with their money those electoral promises you can't deliver on. And this was also seen in this case, when you tried to introduce parataxes from which to finance the activities of the UOKiK. Fortunately, for this moment, this idea has been wiped out of the hands of the Law and Justice. For how long, I do not know, because as it turns out that the debit in the cash register is increasing, I unfortunately expect from you various such proposals. In the bill there are still many, a number of things unacceptable, such as. the lack of proportionality, also provided for by Polish entrepreneurs in the Constitution, which states that the penalty should be directly proportional to the offence. We have tried to amend this so that the penalties imposed on entrepreneurs are adequate to what contracts they work on and what offences they carry out. But even more shameful is that you want to impose a fine on workers of fifty times the national average. And to say that you want to punish such a small amount of CEOs of big markets is bullshit, because the bill clearly states that this penalty will also be covered by managers in these networks. And we know well that the manager on the X, Y, Z network, e.g. the department of one or the other, earns little, probably often even below the national average, and so the imposition of such a penalty will mean for him a ruin of his private life for years. The most bizarre situation is that, somehow, officials do not want to punish themselves with such high penalties and do not want to take responsibility for their mistakes and omissions. It's easy for you guys. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Putting punishment on hard-working people.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u194	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u195	The Modern Club also makes a number of amendments, hoping to improve this law in the subsequent work of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u196	Mr Mirosław Maliszewski from the club of the Polish People's Party will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u197	We make these amendments subject to our support for this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u198	Thank you, Member, thank you. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law, judging by the title, seems to solve a very important problem that affects the area of trade, particularly trade in food, and in its justification it even states that it concerns farmers. For this reason, for example, he deserves to lean on it and express his position. I do this on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. Once we start reading this law, it already does not meet the expectations of the first or second article to the last article, which are in the explanatory memorandum, and it certainly does not meet those expectations which are in the title. In general, it can be said today that this law does not apply to farmers. I will only say a few, three, four comments, which we as Parliamentary Club PSL have for this law, which we believe will have a marginal significance. It will have such meaning as the Supermarket Tax Act, i.e. it may have a negative impact if it is proposed in this form and sees the light of day in this form, it will become the law in force. Why doesn't it apply to farmers? Well, in one of the first articles of this law, it is clearly stated which contracts and relations it will deal with. Well, first of all, there's an indicator of 50,000. zł, which means that it will only apply to farmers who have problems with one partner, they trade with one partner. If the turnover with this partner does not exceed the amount of 50,000. zł, this law does not apply. How many farmers exceed a turnover of over 50 000 with one partner. Evil? So it will only concern a narrow, very narrow group of farmers, because most of the farmers' operations are carried out with many partners, run through a network of small buying points or small establishments. So at least because of that, she's absolutely not going to be useful. Secondly, this second partner, the potentially stronger partner, the one, as we say today, who uses the advantage of a contract or uses unfair practices on the market, will have to have a turnover of more than PLN 100 million. So how many such partners do farmers today have, with which they trade directly and whose turnover exceeds 100 million PLN? It's not a buying-in point, it's not a small processing plant, it's huge entities, that's, let's say, super- and hypermarket networks to which this law essentially narrows down. And this is the first point that this law will absolutely not apply to Polish farmers, it will concern only a few entities that operate in the field of food trade. Thirdly, the effectiveness of this law. Even if we have to deal with the fact that entities meet the requirements of this law, meet the conditions of this law, there may be unfair transactions, i.e. using the contractual advantage of this stronger the weaker one. Well, I don't want to say that for the President of the OKiK, but let's say that for any interpretation, everyone will be against a decision imposing a financial penalty on him - the one who uses unfair practice - appealing to the court. The President of the UOKiK, who, in my view, is deprived of a clear catalogue of unfair circumstances, will lose such legal proceedings because he will not be able to prove that this behaviour is unfair. And that's the third element of this bill, very important, saying that she's going to be dead. And the fourth element, no one's talking about it, is that contract contracts are being discussed in this bill. No one's talked about it or talked about it much so far. This law amends the Act on the Agricultural Market Agency, which, in accordance with Regulation No 1308 of the European Union, is to supervise whether or not to implement the obligation to conclude contracts between the farmer and the recipient of his product. And it is clear - it is said clearly - in this law, in this project, that if someone buys agricultural products from a farmer without signing a contract with him, I am already abstracting the conditions under which, only without signing a contract with him, outside the contract agreement system, which, as the European Commission has determined, should be implemented in each Member State, will be subject to a financial penalty of 10%. the value of the raw materials purchased outside the contracts and this will be paid to the State budget. In this respect, the interest of the state budget is secured, because penalties from such entities can be quite large on a macro scale and they will fund the state budget. But what's the farmer gonna get out of all this? Let us consider this, for example, on the example of the market for black currants, which have been purchased in recent years, also in the past year or this year, which passes, after 35 gr per kg, approx. 35.40 gr per kg. So the penalty is 3.5.4 gr from 1 kg. We know clearly that there is unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in this market. What will it be for such an international consortium, what will it be for such an international corporation to pay a 10% penalty, those 3/4 gr from 1 kg bought outside contracts of blackcurrants at low prices? For the state budget, and you took care of it, there will be a profit. It will be a loss to the farmer, and it will only be [[♪ The bell ♪]] legitimisation of those processors who are illegally operating on the market using unfair practices.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u200	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u201	Therefore, for just these reasons, I make amendments, Mr. Marshal. Of course, our final behavior depends on the analysis and implementation of these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u202	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products, printing No. 790, and the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, print No. 983. The purpose of the proposed law is to eliminate in practice the supply of agricultural raw materials and food from unfair commercial practices, and this is the objective of the most appropriate. The pressure to obtain the lowest price from the buyer can actually affect the quality of the food products offered to the customer. Agricultural producers and processors of agricultural products, as a result of the pressure exerted by operators with a dominant position on the market, are often forced to replace in the production process good quality raw materials with worse ones. This is as harmful as possible to consumers. There are very many examples of such practices: imposing designs of contracts without the possibility of negotiating them, one-sided termination of contracts, forcing the level of purchase prices, unjustified extension of payment deadlines for the goods delivered and other completely not having anything to do with the essential subject-matter of the trade. From a formal point of view, suppliers have the right to pursue their claims under applicable law. This may take place before courts in private legal proceedings. Unfortunately, this entails considerable costs, and the proceedings themselves are long-term. Entities who attempt such action shall be punished by the recipients by the termination of the contract, which only aggravates their position. Wholesalers of agricultural products often operate from force, using shelves, pallets, for space in the refrigerator, for exposure, for additional costs of newspapers, etc. This is not fiction, this phenomenon must be countered. On the other hand, the administrative procedure for resolving disputes through administrative proceedings conducted by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection should significantly relieve suppliers in a weaker position in the investigation of their claims and be an incentive to stop unfair practices by stronger consumers. The introduction of financial administrative penalties for unfair use of the contractual advantage should result in the cessation of such practices. The problem of unfair practices in trade with network users does not exist only in Poland. The different countries of the European Union have taken various measures to eliminate these pathologies. There are no EU rules imposing the use of selected solutions, and we can therefore try to solve this problem ourselves. I hope that the regulations proposed in the Act will meet the expectations of it. The use by large counterparties of terms and conditions that result in the transfer of economic risk to agricultural producers in order to maximise profits often takes place at the border of law. This practice poses a major threat to the whole food industry. It is fundamental that the supply of agri-food products should be based on clear and clear principles that shape good relations between its links and apply equally to all market participants regardless of economic potential. There is no doubt that the draft law submitted is necessary, but there is some doubt in its form that the Public Prosecutor General of the State Treasury pointed out in its opinion of 29 August 2016. Above all, we are talking about the wording of the provisions of the Article. Paragraph 7 2 and 3, which require clarification not to duplicate the provisions of the Act on Combating Unfair Competition and the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and do not create a legal mess. It should also be settled whether the content of the article. 30 projects after the entry into force of the Act will allow businesses to formulate claims for damages where, after disclosure of their data on the website of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection as those who apply unfair practices, a final decision will then be repealed against them declaring the act they have committed to be an unfair use of the advantage of the contract. Unfortunately, during the drafting of the bill in committees, these doubts were not eliminated. A law against unfair practices in the marketing of agricultural and food products should be adopted, but we believe that its current form needs to be improved. I hope that at the third reading or in the work of the Senate the bill will be refined. About Free and Solidarni will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u204	Thank you very much. Seven ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of enlisted Members. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, a club of the Polish People's Party. [[Law and Justice.]] [[Voice from the room: Szulowski is Law and Justice.]] I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law presented to the High House against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products deserves the support of all my assessment. It is a need for a moment, because it is a kind of sign of time to apply unfair practices to suppliers of agricultural and food products by large operators, especially large-area shops. The explanatory memorandum to the bill lists a number of such reprehensible practices - I would like to remind you that it was very widely presented in the debate during the first reading of the practice known by Mieczysław Miazga from the autopsy. For me, this project is very important because it is part of a package of laws improving the conditions of the suppliers of these products. Question: "Is there any concern that this law and the possible action of supervisory authorities towards those violating the good rules will result in the transfer of the costs of restrictions and penalties, e.g. for customers by raising prices? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u206	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law is applicable where practices involving unfair exploitation of a contractual advantage have or may have effects on the territory of our country. However, there are entities that are parties to a commercial relationship - a buyer or supplier - and which are only established in Poland. I would like to ask who will the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection exercise control powers if the trade agreement was concluded by foreign entities and at the same time had effects on Poland's territory. Or only to the entities that are these parties active in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u208	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The question is precisely addressed to Minister Babalski, because this year, in the summer, during the time of buying soft fruit, there were criminal phenomena. The processing industry has dictated prices below the cost of production, sometimes at 30% of the cost of production, for soft fruit, including blackcurrant. The Minister of Agriculture then asked the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection to examine whether there are unfair developments, the exploitation of market advantage, monopolistic position, the conclusion of price agreements. I would like to ask myself, what is the effect of this procedure, what is the effect of this conclusion, whether someone has been punished for it, whether any pathological phenomenon has been identified in what phase this case is in. I would add that similar applications were made by industry organisations, which see perfectly the situation on the market and also such letters, among others. the association of black currant growers, addressed to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Again: What is the effect of these proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u210	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill is needed. The idea to strengthen the position of Polish food suppliers in relations with networks is justified, but unfortunately this law is not fully refined. The number of amendments that were tabled at second reading also shows that there are many gaps that need to be actually filled in and corrected. I fear that if we go too far with these penalties, with these sharpenings, there may be a situation when the networks will actually be more directed towards buying these goods from foreign companies, which will also hit Polish suppliers, because they will then be deprived of the possibility of trade. Unfortunately, there is a rule that if the company is to take the risk of being punished for breaking contracts, it will however decide to shop abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u212	Thank you. The question is asked by Artur Dunin, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Just a minute, so quick question. Minister, tell me what's going on, that even good ideas, as I said in my club speech, you can always spoil them. You guys can always break it. There has not yet been a law that would actually be from the beginning, from A to Z, a good that we could support with a clear conscience. With this law it is exactly the same: the idea is good, yet fatal, indeterminate, indeterminate. But the question will be different. Minister, is it true that art. The 32, which you wanted to post during the work of the subcommittee, which... Start only read: The supplier or buyer pays an annual fee related to the performance of tasks by the President of the Office, etc. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it true that you want to put this amendment in the Senate? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u214	The question is asked by Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm worried about the arguments here, that if we put up a tightening for the commercial networks, they're going to start buying from foreign suppliers. That's what Polish parliamentarians say. I know these arguments from POHiD. After all, it is one of the main terrors that they will start buying food in the world, but we are countering this by introducing the Polish product, based on economic patriotism. It seems that if they want to operate on the Polish market and sell food, Polish consumers quite effectively send signals which food they expect. However, the fear that supermarket chains will somehow try to compel Polish suppliers to make concessions, scaring foreign purchases, is. I don't overestimate her, but she is. That is why I have a question for the government: what ministry plans to take action so as not to lead to such a situation that functioning in Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] This medicine has been prescribed for you. will the companies using the market try to eliminate Polish suppliers? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u216	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I also believe, as some colleagues who have spoken before me, that the bill is needed because there should be equal opportunities for both producers and suppliers. I would remind you that the bill works both ways, both on suppliers and on producers. I am wondering here, at all, why we are so strongly based on officials, why we do not want it to be, in accordance with our amendment several times, the lower limit of punishment. The point is, the little guy and the big guy are being punished the same way. Why so trusting an official that he will know how to punish, what lower punishment to apply? After all, the punishment of 5,000, which can be applied by an official, is quite different for a large corporation and something different for some medium-sized farmer. We can see that this bill doesn't work on the big ones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Everyone should pay a minimum of 0.5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u218	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Zbigniew Babalski, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another law, which also raises a lot of controversy, especially in opposition benches. [[Minister, we believe in you.]] Thank you for your faith. We will try to ensure that this law, so criticised by the opposition, fulfils its task before this law. You'd still have to ask a question... There's a lot of reservations, a lot of charges. Before this law worked, you have subjected it to the state, I speak to the opposition, total criticism, without giving it, practically speaking, any chance that it could function in the form it was proposed. I do not doubt that some of the solutions you are proposing are going in such a way as to improve the functioning of this law, but we - the government, because on its behalf I am acting - for today we have no doubt that it is symmetrical, that it works both ways: from the producer who is first in this chain, is the first link, to the consumer. And if an agricultural producer is the first link, it turns out that it is today the weakest link, because it is treated as such. We're not inventing anything new. These provisions in this Act, which are proposed, are recorded as a result of consultations with representatives of the agricultural sector, with representatives of the agricultural chamber. The charge - I think it's a representative of PSL - that practically, we will make the farmer's situation worse, and we will not correct it, is nothing justified, nothing, nothing at all. I don't want to say it again, but you've had a lot of time to have all the good ideas you're talking about today... And yet you make the condition that you support this bill when all your good ideas are included in this bill, your amendments will be implemented. Yeah, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Let me just... Of course, we will be familiar with these amendments, because there are a number of them, I hear, 12 Platforms, six other groups. We will be familiar with these amendments. As far as I know, there's a committee meeting tomorrow at 8:30. At 8:30 tomorrow... [[Tonight at 9:00.]] We do not have much time, so you will probably be disappointed - to say gently - that your amendments, your good ideas will not find a place in this bill. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Let's do a good committee before the next meeting...]] Because it is necessary to stop unequal treatment of the agricultural producer, because that is the case today, especially in relation to the agricultural producer - large networks. Many of you have raised - a bit as a threat to this - a case concerning possible purchases from abroad: these networks will download their goods. I don't think that's gonna happen. Distance, transportation, costs - it will translate into the price of the product that will be on the shelf. I would like to say that you should approach this law more preventively than restrictively. All I hear here today is restrictions. This bill should work preventively. If you think that it should not be so restrictive, then there should be no fear at all, because if there are no bad practices, then there will be no penalties, there should be no penalties. Perhaps - and we have deep faith in it - so it will be. You say they're too high or you have to set boundaries. Punishment, to be effective, must keep away from bad practices, must keep away. It's everywhere, it's widely used. There's one more thing I'd like to say. Many European Union countries have such laws. Better, worse, but it does. If there is a network, I assume theoretically, Polish, with Polish capital, it will also use a scarecrow: we will download goods from Poland because you have introduced a bill? A law that should be symmetrical, and according to you it's not, but it's asymmetric. Oh, no, it works both ways. Therefore, I think that you have too many countries - which does not mean that all of them are not entirely justified, but too many of them have concerns - that it can only make the situation of this weakest link, which is the farmer in relation to large operators, large players on the market worse when it comes to trade in agricultural products. I will not refer directly to your individual statements, because you will straighten it out and I am simply avoiding it. But often in the State's statements such phrases were used: bad law, bad solutions, not in this direction. Give this bill a chance, let it function. This is a law that is a bit on the basis of laws from some countries, powers in the European Union, because they invented it first. And now I'm gonna say one more thing. The country we often refer to has gone so far - I think of Hungary - that at the moment from this law, from those restrictive provisions which he introduced in his law, about this unfair competition, is beginning to withdraw in part. They said they went too far. We do not go that far, also taught by their example and example from Spain, from Germany - there are such laws. Probably at the very beginning they were also criticized that entities are being treated unevenly. I'm done. There were also such very specific questions concerning e.g. how the security office will operate in relation to entities that are foreign and operate on the Polish market. In Poland there is Polish law, the Republic, EU law, so such entities that will break the provisions of this law, I am talking about foreign entities, will be treated as Polish entities. There shouldn't be any homage here. Often repeated punishments, that's what I've been talking about. Foreign shopping, one of the Members of Modernity spoke about it. So I think that maybe pretty general, but I referred to your speeches. I will also be curious to review these amendments that have been tabled. Oh, there was another question... [[What about Amendment 32a, Minister?]] I have no such knowledge, sir, that we should go to the Senate with such a thing. [[I'll hold you to that.]] At this stage, I answer to you... [[Oh, at this stage.]] ...that standing here today, I say I don't have that kind of knowledge. [[Then why are you in this government?]] So that good solutions can be put in place, sir, but we will not be discussing from the jury...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u220	Don't interfere, sir. Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: I invite you to the committee meeting, we can hold this debate there and have this discussion. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much, Minister. The committee rapporteur, Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This bill isn't just about punishing. [[So they're gonna bring it to the Senate.]] This law is designed to prevent unfair practices in the marketing of agri-food products. If proper commercial relations, proper practices are maintained, these penalties are unnecessary and are only to deter, as the Minister said here. Let's give this bill a chance to work. Amendments were tabled, 27 were tabled. They have already reached me as chairman of the subcommittee, which dealt with this law on countering unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products. We will discuss these amendments in committee so that it is a step in the right direction. From this speaker, everyone has made it clear that this bill is needed. There are few countries of the European Union in which this law is not. Most countries have and we want to join those countries that have such a law. I would like to thank you very much for your previous work in committee and subcommittee. There were a few of these meetings. Let me add that we have also listened to the voice of the social side and some comments in this regard have also been accepted. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] For example, here, sir, this famous article. 32a, which you summon. They just haven't been... [[Because it was shouted out by me that it was a scandal.]] ...this amendment was not accepted here. So let us not say that we do not listen to what the social side also says. So once again, very cordially... [[I was screaming loudly.]] ...thank you. Further work will be carried out on this law in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u222	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act (Prints No. 969 and 1005). I ask Mr Tadeusz Cymanski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have been honored and have been tasked with passing to the High House the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the parliamentary draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, the draft in print No. 969. The report bears the signature and number 1005. This bill concerned two issues. As in the title, one concerned personal income tax, and more specifically, the issue that is on the market in the media under the heading "tax-free amount'. And the second point, more complex, more substantive, deprived of this load of political emotion, is the question of the proposal and idea with which a group of Members, whose representative in the legislative process was present here in the Chamber of Silwester Tułayev, who prepared a draft law, whose guiding idea was the elimination of gaps, the reduction of inappropriate, harmful tax avoidance practices, what is called so elegantly optimizing tax practices practiced by open investment funds and closed investment funds, in particular closed ones. It was an original project. The Finance Commission at its meetings on 4 November and 14 November examined this law in detail, there was a very valuable discussion, which I should like to summarize synthetically, and after this discussion, after listening to arguments, numerous, it must be said, also quite critical, especially as regards taxation, the new rules on taxation of investment funds, especially closed ones, took a slightly different form. This is particularly true of the fact that, following the adoption of these amendments, which I referred to by Mr Tułaev, the scope of taxation of investment funds has been limited to this section only, to the extent that tax avoidance can take place. That's one way to put it. During the discussion, although it was a parliamentary project, and thus the possibilities of these consultations, these procedures are very limited, but, and this must be emphasised in the report, they had the opportunity to speak in the course of their work and spoke very much and strongly, and clearly the institutions and organisations concerned. First of all, the opinion provided by the National Bank of Poland, by representatives of fund and asset management institutions working in the committee, the Confederation of Leviatan, the Financial Supervision Commission presented a very comprehensive detailed position. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It can be said that, above all, the whole blade of this critical assessment of the subject matter concerning the taxation of investment funds was a matter of concern that the introduction of these sharp, restrictive provisions would result in a drain, a capital elopement. It has also been pointed out that the phenomenon of tax avoidance concerns only parts and that, in total, a noble and positive thought, the intention here could consequently turn... This could be against the intentions of the applicants. These concerns, as you can see, came to the conviction of a group of Members, in the committee, this was also heard in the discussion, and after consultation, also after hearing the government's opinion, it was decided, as I said at the outset, on the amendment of this draft law in the section on taxation of closed investment funds. It was also pointed out the risk that this could consequently be a very negative phenomenon in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. As you know, companies require a long investment period, whereas the feature of open funds is that they must be very flexible, they must be able to pay out the capital involved at any time. It has also been pointed out, for the full picture, that we would be dealing with the possibility, the risk, or actually the practice of double taxation. All this opposition, which eagerly entered into the flow of these substantive institutions, raised. But, if I may say so as rapporteur, the Finance Committee has set an example and demonstrated that it is possible to act flexibly, that the opposition's voices are not ignored, and Members have accepted most of these comments in the part I am talking about, namely, investment funds. Nor was it trivial that the practice was referred to. Europe is not an oracle, but it is the fact that this kind of solution practically - this was presented to us by the Conference of Financial Enterprises in Poland, analyzed the European market - but this is a unique phenomenon. The National Bank of Poland also pointed out that instead of solutions which are very simple, easier, it would be necessary to make an effort, which probably stands before all of us, and thus to use the tax avoidance clause, it is possible. She's difficult, but she's probably more accurate, more effective. So, Mr. Marshal, the High Sejm, as far as investment funds are concerned, we have this before us, and the finance committee is asking the High Sejm to approve this project in this regard. But there is another topic, to not get divorced too much, this is the subject that aroused and aroused emotions, here were clear political statements, namely the tax-free amount. As you know, the Constitutional Tribunal considered the question of the tax-free amount and very clearly weighed the following. He considered that as regards the Polish tax rules, the tax-free amount, in the amount, I will remind you, PLN 3091, is non-constitutional in this respect and in the sense that the tax provision does not contain an adjustment mechanism - such a mechanism which guarantees the non-taxation of persons whose income is below the poverty line. It is worth remembering this, and this is the essence of the tax-free amount. Some call it the limit of shame. Each country shall determine the amount and ceiling of the income below which it does not fall shall not be subject to a citizen's tax. And it is a shame, and even a disgrace, that in Poland it amounts to PLN 3091... [[So what?]] Imagine that. Yeah, I can hear it from the Seym Courts... But I cannot succumb to the temptation to get emotional because I am a cold, dry, calm rapporteur. He will be able to use Mr Tulaev, because he will speak politically and I will present the report. I'd be offended by my friends from the opposition if I started pouring oil into the fire here. I'm just gonna say this, actually, I'm gonna say this because I said it myself, and by the way: At the meeting of the finance committee, among other things. Mr Cymanski, who proposed to the committee, however... critically assessed the attitude of the government - a government with which, moreover, it has a close political connection - that the government does not propose an increase in this amount. Since the Platform - I said so, Mr Cymanski said - for 8 years she raised by 2 PLN, I proposed 100% more, 4 zlotys raise. It is ironic, but I wanted to say something else. Not to mock and mock, because this is a serious subject, but it must be made clear that in my statement - I am reporting at the moment - in the reaction of Mr Tulayev and the present government representatives it is clearly stated that the thought and the operative part of the ruling of the tribunal will be reflected in the solutions in force since 2018, which the government has been working on. I agree because it has also been said that even after this solution, which the High House's finance committee is proposing, even despite this provision, there are legal doubts. I hope that the Members also expressed their hope that the Senate would still work on this, because the lack of legislation in this regard opens up risks and concerns that there would be no tax-free amount at all. In turn, another record would be a record of height. All these solutions are linked to money. We must give it back, and I will say it clearly as rapporteur, that in very critical and emotional statements - I will not call names by elegance - they said: Where are these 100 days? It was supposed to be 100 days. Where's the election promise? That's the kind of voice I give faithfully, but without that emotional charge. On the other hand, explaining itself, she emphasized that not immediately Kraków was built, many actions have already been taken, but the tax-free amount is really what it is today. Therefore, High Izbo, the draft contained in this report proposes the introduction of a laconic provision, which has so far been, except that it would be operational until the end of next year. Of course, comments can be different. For the full picture, I will say that in information, in the position or in the project, among others. The Confederation of Leviathan has proposed a provision to introduce a correction mechanism that the absence of this entry is not fulfilling the substance of the position. But it's a legal issue, and it's not my job to get into commentary. I just want to present to the High House what was the course of the legislative process. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To conclude, I hope that the High Chamber, after consideration, will accept the attached draft law in print no.1005, in the version proposed by the finance committee on behalf of which I had the pleasure to present this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u224	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sylvester Tułaev will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is my great honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and amending the Act on corporate income tax. The proposal, as the rapporteur has already said fairly, concerns two fundamental changes. The first is to take account of the tax-free amount in 2016 and 2017 and the second concerns changes in the tax rules of investment funds. Two ranges: free amount and investment funds. After first reading and after very long discussions in the finance committee - let me remind you that the finance committee has discussed these problems twice a long time - there are no changes to the first article, i.e. the tax-free amount. I would point out that the operative part of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 October 2015 may raise doubts on the effects it will have on the expiry of the deadline. It is therefore reasonable to adopt this law in order to rule out any misunderstanding in order to ensure that taxpayers retain the constitutional principle of legal certainty that there will be a tax-free amount at all. Ladies and gentlemen! Politically - Mr Cymanski said that I would speak this way - indeed, as the Law and Justice we promised that we would make social changes, and we are making these changes. We have introduced the 500+ program, there is also a minimum salary of 2000 PLN... [[But that's not about it.]] ...is a minimum pension of 1000 PLN, there are free medicines for seniors, a number of other programs. Today, the Law and Justice Government summarizes a good year... [[Black year.]] ...because it was actually a good year for Poland. That's what we do. However, we know that not everything can be introduced immediately. All these issues, especially those related to the tax-free amount, were very late, but as we have heard in this discussion, once again, the loudest shouts are those who have done nothing. During 8 years of PO-PSL governments, the tax-free amount increased by only 2 PLN. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The Platform's faults, as usual.]] Our promise, the promise of law and justice is still valid. She's gonna be realized. We've got three more years. [[We don't know.]] This promise will be realized, work is underway to reform the tax system in the field of uniform tax, in which it is planned to implement precisely this announcement, which I am talking about, announced by the Prime Minister. This Act is due to enter into force on 1 January 2018. Briefly on the change in the tax rules for investment funds. The amendment, which was tabled by me in the Committee on Public Finance, responds to all those voices that appeared in the Committee on Public Finance, but also to those voices that appeared from the social side. A very broad discussion, long hours of discussion, and indeed there was a great need for this amendment, which I proposed, which is already reflected in print No 1005. First of all, a fundamental change. This amendment aims to restore the individual exemption for investment funds, but also, what is important, allows the possibility for Polish investment funds to benefit from tax exemptions closed and specialized investment funds applying the investment rules and limitations set for FIZs. The third fundamental amendment to the amendments adopted by the Commission is that the exemption in question will not apply to the extent that the activities of the FIZ and specialised open-ended investment funds can be attributed to the risk of using these entities in so-called schemes. aggressive tax optimization. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request the High Sejm to adopt the Act on Printing No. 1005. The PiS Club fully supports this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u226	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Mrs Izabel Leszczyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This bill is three completely different problems in one project. You could say three articles and three problems. The first problem with this bill is lying. It is symbolic that on the anniversary of his reign, PiS tells Poles: We didn't make it, we lied to you, we deceived you. The president lied, the Prime Minister lied, there will be no tax-free amount, there will be no amount of $8,000, we just tricked you. The crisis is over, sir, the economy is well, tax revenue is growing. Why don't you raise the tax-free amount? Mr Tulaev, I am not addressing you because you have already read this party manifesto three times in response to my question. Next time, a little self-invention. I would like you to imitate your colleague, Mr Cymanski. Question - answer. We don't read party manifestos four times from the speaker, because it's boring. [[Applause]] The second problem of this law is the unprecedented inability of Law and Justice. Believe me, sometimes I even feel sorry for you because... [[Don't read it.]] Mr President, it is not about patting a poem from memory. The point is for a man to say something from his heart, from himself, to come up with what he wants to say to the Poles. [[Then don't use the card.]] High Seym... Mr. Marshal, please calm Mr. Tulayev down. The PiS failure in this bill is the inability... [[Then don't read it.]] ...in sealing the tax system. The state with the stubbornness of a better case is constantly confusing the sealing of the tax system with the imposition of new taxes. It's really not the same thing, it's something completely different. I will not mind the first version of the draft by Members of Law and Justice, they have done so for the opposition of institutions managed by individuals appointed by the PiS government or by the parliamentary majority of the PiS. The National Bank of Poland, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Stock Exchange did not leave on your project the proper dry thread. As a result, you threw this bill into the trash. It's too bad it's not all there, because it's supposed to be all there. [[What else does it say?]] Unfortunately, what remains of the CIT Act also leaves much to be desired. We still have uncertainty about the treatment of investment funds with separate sub-funds. What if there is a sub-fund in one fund that invests like the so-called fund. FIZAN, and another subfund? You have not introduced any transitional provisions. It is not properly known how to qualify for revenue components acquired or transferred before the proposed provisions enter into force. You're not just hitting investors, you're hitting small people. We are approaching the third problem of this law, which has been shyly silenced and by the rapporteur, and by the representative of the PiS. Well, in the PIT, CIT and Investment Funds Act, because that's what this project is called, you're making a change in the Tax Order. This isn't a joke, you're really doing this - you're making a change in the Tax Office. You are designing a provision that concerns individual interpretations and automatically repealing the protective power of all interpretations that have been issued since 2004. When the Minister of Finance considers arbitrary that tax avoidance has occurred in a given case, even though the taxpayer had an individual interpretation in this particular case, he will have no protection. This is, of course, a provision not worthy of the rule of law, that is a provision incompatible with the Article. Two constitutions, but you don't have a constitution. At least think about how confident investors can be about investing in a country ruled by the PiS. This provision not only concerns multinational corporations, it concerns several hundred thousand Polish entrepreneurs and Polish taxpayers. That's the PiS proposal for the anniversary of government. There is no free amount, you impose a new tax on closed investment funds and repeal individual interpretations protecting the Polish taxpayer. Congratulations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Civic Platform consists, Mr. Marshal, of two amendments that eliminate the unconstitutionality of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesz from the Kukiz club15 will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Messengers! Dear Members, I say, dear, not only because of the great respect I have for you, but also because of the cost you are, I, too, from the point of view of the Polish tax system. And don't be outraged. I have no claim here that low taxes are for Members, because Members only pay 36% of their income in income tax, but I resent that ordinary Jan Kowalski, a citizen, has to pay 40% off his income. total taxation, due to the scandalously low tax-free amount, for which the state here practically everyone is responsible: and 8 years of the rule of the Civic Platform, and this year of the rule of law and justice. The rapporteur complained to the Civic Platform that it raised the tax-free amount by only PLN 2 in 8 years. I would like to remind you that this is still about 25 gr per year more than the Law and Justice do, so unfortunately, in this comparison you are losing grimly. But there was a great promise: 8,000. within the first 100 days of government. It is your duty to keep that promise. I have these questions. How do you feel, e.g. to the President of the Republic of Poland, whose victory in the presidential election helped you break the bad streak of consecutively lost elections, helped to get into parliament and create a government majority? Where's the president's proposal to raise the tax-free amount? He's already been frozen on the committee. Where is the amendment by Mr Blaze Parda that would fix the unconstitutionality of this project and raise the tax-free amount to this existential minimum? She was rejected by you. Where's the Modern Project? He's also frozen on the committee. [[Applause]] What kind of justice is that? Can you look Mr. President in the face? It's the President, among other things. It was thanks to this promise that he gained millions of votes from the young people who believed that perhaps this crew would not make them in Bamboo and raise this tax-free amount, which has already become a symbol of unfulfilled promises in this Seym. I can talk about it in contrast to the Civic Platform because I represent this young generation who went abroad because he's tired of cheating year after year. We demand more tax-free money. For decency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u230	Thank you. Mr Blazej Pard, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's true. Amendment increasing the amount free to 6.5 thousand. zł, minimum existential, is lost in the finance committee, but we will still vote on it in this Chamber and hope that then there will be some reflection and maybe it will be accepted, although I very much doubt it. In the explanatory memorandum to this law, you wrote that: Therefore, in order to ensure the constitutional principle of legal certainty for taxpayers, and in particular to guarantee the right to take account of the tax-free amount, there is an urgent need for a legislative initiative setting out the rules for calculating income tax. It's so urgent that you forgot to change that tax-free amount. I understand that this urgency simply caused you to mistakenly enter the same one that's been there for eight years. Next: In addition, due to the exposé announced by the Prime Minister, an increase in the amount free to 8 000. It is appropriate to maintain the existing tax rules also in this and next year. So we have a little logical error. As the Prime Minister wants to increase, we must now retain this amount at this level, because then it could not increase. And when will he do that? Unless it's all about her being able to, she has this opportunity to raise, and it's really never going to be presented. Here, too, with the amount of free money, there is often a question of how we are taxed, or diet. There are arguments that councillors should also be taxed, councillors, councillors of the Sejm or district, but this is a completely different category. Those councillors do not have free car rides, plane flights, free hotel, free apartment in Warsaw. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So our real diet is unnecessary, and it's just our extra profit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u233	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on printing 1005, which was to be, as the Prime Minister said, about the increase in the amount of free. And so we read in the justification of the PiS club, that only because work on a uniform tax is ongoing, the amount free will be at this embarrassingly low level of PLN 3100. That's how you motivated your work by bringing in this irresponsible project. Unfortunately, however, it turns out that this justification was annulled by the Prime Minister because we learned from the interview yesterday that the work on a uniform tax, which was to be introduced in the future so that this amount of free money would increase for the poorest taxpayers, would not be judged. It is not concluded that this uniform tax will enter into force. On the anniversary of the PiS government one thing is decided, namely that your promises are eternally alive, because it is probably the right way to conclude that there was no time, that maybe not today, maybe next year, maybe later. So, questions. Why don't you pay attention to 16%? taxpayers whose income is below 8 000. zł, who actually voted for you and waited for the introduction of this amount free at a higher level? Why does this mechanism proposed in an irresponsible way in this parliamentary project not once again take into account the mechanisms for the valorisation of this amount? Worst of all, it is impossible to make any adjustments, as the Kukiz Club colleagues tried to do, to correct this law, because the increase in the amount of free in the records alone will not compensate for the loss of PIT revenue for local governments. It must be such a two-track mechanism: on the one hand, a higher amount free for the taxpayer and, on the other hand, compensation for local governments, an increase in their share of the PIT tax. Therefore, while not divorcing for too long, the Modern Posel Club from this place again asks you to finally light the green light and start proceding the Modern Law, which fulfils the judgment of the Constitutional Court and ensures an increase in the amount of free responsibility to citizens and at that time also to the law way. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u234	Thank you. Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u235	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I want to talk about what Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister of Economy, Development and Finance, actually said. He said that the foundation of the constitution for entrepreneurs is the legal certainty clause. Please tell me how it is with this legal certainty clause, as it is certainly the right for entrepreneurs in the case of this law. It was a parliamentary project. Mr Tułayev - he is no longer in the Chamber, but certainly a specialist in capital markets, although I have never noticed that he had anything to do with it - reported the bill as a strange coincidence on 31 October. The project was proceded on 4 November, on 14 November the committee process was completed, and on 30 November the project was to enter into force. I would therefore like to refer to these multi-hour consultations. I would like to say that in normal European countries such projects, such changes have been discussed over the years. There is an appropriate vacathio legis when making such changes. It's not here. There's a rush, an acceleration, no consultation. The amendment proposed by Mr Tułaev on individual interpretations is incomprehensible, vague and will be controversial rather than facilitating the application of the rules to businesses. These are the consequences of creating a right for a miscarriage, without consultation and in-depth legal analysis, because this amendment has been It's badly constructed. Not much of it, it concerns the Tax Order, and this draft law was not about the Tax Order, so at all this procedure, this deposit in the form of this amendment is irrational, unprecedented in parliament. I also want to talk about the FIZs, because this draft law applies not only to the amount of free money, but also to closed investment funds. Double taxation. Do you realize that more than 600 FIZs in Poland will be taxed twice, and the accumulated capital, i.e. 149 billion PLN, will probably escape from Poland? It's not just Polish capital. There is, of course, foreign capital, but these funds are reinvested in Poland. This is a mistake. I would call this: a financial coup against these savings, for the investments you are talking about in Morawiecki's plan, a plan for responsible development. How is this bill for Morawiecki's plan? Do you realize he's conflicting? How can you invest in the future? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, there are many questions. I think I'll have another chance to ask them. We're making an amendment. We're against this bill. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u236	Thank you very much. Ms Genowef Tokarska will now speak from the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on corporate income tax, print No. 969 and 1005. The protested parliamentary bill essentially brings together two independent issues. First, it sanctiones the tax scale of personal income tax at the current level for the following years, i.e. for 2016 and 2017, and secondly, amends the taxation of investment funds. The project, which entered the Sejm for first reading, did not contain any analyses or opinions, was not subject to agreements or consultations, so as expected, many comments and proposals of solutions were received in the Committee on Public Finance within a very short period of time. These comments were received from the Conference of Financial Companies in Poland, from the Confederation of Leviatan, from the Board of Directors of the Funds and Assets, as well as from the National Bank of Poland and the Financial Supervision Commission. Interested parties participated in multi-hour discussions during meetings of the Committee on Public Finances. The solutions proposed in the project aroused a lot of controversy, raised opposition, and the analysis of solutions indicated that the taxation of investment funds would have a very negative impact on finance in general, even the Polish capital market. As a result of obvious substantive arguments, the applicants submitted a self-correction which withdraws many of these adverse solutions. The amendment was accepted by the members of the committee and will, of course, result in significantly lower tax revenues for investment funds. And the remaining provisions left behind in the project are such that investors of the funds will withdraw from the Polish capital market. The project also includes a number of legislative and editorial changes, and the following article. 3 relating to the Tax Order contains even a procedural error, because it contains proposals for solutions which were not the subject of the first reading of the project, and thus were not included as issues in the original project at all. The first part of the project remains unchanged. By the votes of the PiS Members, the project leaves the tax-free amount unchanged. It was PiS MEPs who decided that no other project submitted to the Sejm proposed to increase the tax-free amount in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 28 October 2015 had been considered. Thus, despite these previous promises by the President, the Prime Minister's promises to increase the tax-free amount of Poles living from income below the minimum of existence still pay taxes, and PiS Members ignore the execution of the judgments of the Constitutional Court, but also the economic situation of the poorest Poles working. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u238	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, Mr Ireneusz Oda will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. The promise to raise the tax-free amount made by the Government of Law and Justice and the President of the Republic of Poland is an extremely important promise for Poles, especially for those earning low income. Improving the income of the least-earned citizens, as so often said by government representatives, should be done in this way: by removing excessive tax burdens from the work they do. Aware of the budgetary implications of raising the tax-free amount to 8 000. zł, estimated at PLN 15 billion, we call for 2017 to be devoted to a fair, substantive debate on public expenditure, especially in order to reduce these expenditures completely unnecessary, and to the planned reform of the tax system. I would add, by the way, that I believe that the rulers are putting society on a serious test of patience, significantly pushing back the tax-free amount in time. The 500+ programme is a prodemographic programme, so justified, it cannot be regarded as a programme that will replace the amendment, the change of the entire tax system, also in the context of an increase in the tax-free amount, i.e. compensation for raising the tax-free amount. In today's speech more widely than in the previous session of the Sejm, I would also like to refer to the part of the draft law on the revision of the rules on taxation of investment funds, i.e. to amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act. In the view of the applicants, the current use of closed investment funds often boils down to tax optimisation by large taxpayers, which results in a preference for small and medium-sized enterprises. As we can see in the explanatory memorandum, this situation has a negative impact on the competitiveness of smaller players, weakening their market position. The question is whether the proposed changes will not result in a bathing child being fired, undermining citizens' confidence in investment, investment, which the promotion of which among Poles is consistent with the plan for responsible development. It is worth mentioning a few details, which were indicated in a letter sent to clubs and parliamentary circles by the Board of Directors of Funds and Assets, a voluntary organization of associations of investment funds operating on the Polish market. In the opinion of the authorities of the Chambers, the law will achieve objectives contrary to those assumed. As I have said, the aim of the project developers is to eliminate the use of the investment fund as tax optimisation, while the project provides for taxation of all closed investment funds, as well as specialised open investment funds applying the investment policy of the closed fund. The House stresses that funds closed to a large extent are funds offered to a wide range of investors, often small ones, whose purpose of investment is absolutely not optimization. It therefore considers that if the purpose of the regulation is, as explained by the justification, to deprive tax efficiency of structures involving closed investment funds and tax transparent entities, it would suffice to make an exception to investments in transparent entities in an entity exempting income tax funds. As a result, these structures would be taxed as would other taxpayers, while the remaining investment activities would continue to be promoted. In addition, the representatives of the Chamber indicate that the proposed changes will result in the fact that, unlike shareholders of capital companies, participants in closed investment funds will not be able to benefit from the income tax exemption in respect of the dividends received, which makes these funds completely ineffective as investment instruments. It is also important to raise the issue of a drastically short period of vacathio legis, which, with the long-term functioning of the funds, can adversely affect investment activities, and it is worth remembering that investment fund participants are a large group - about 2 million people. I ask the applicants to comment on the comments submitted by the Board of Directors of the Funds and Assets, with particular regard to those which I have quoted. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Members are of the opinion that the law should be amended in the part concerning the tax-free amount, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that it takes into account the valorisation of the value of this amount in accordance with the law guaranteed by the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u240	Thank you very much. Seven ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Please, Mr Truskolaski, the modern club, is the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister and its ministers spoke at today's summary of the year of the PiS government about a series of successes. We have also heard that the PiS is implementing its electoral programme. Ladies and gentlemen, this is, of course, a lie. The Prime Minister in her exposé talked about signing a contract with voters, a contract with Poles. A contract according to which after 100 days of his reign he will fulfill several promises. One of them was to increase the tax-free amount from PLN 3091 to about PLN 8,000. Unfortunately, it was another lie. The Prime Minister lied to the Poles. The tax-free amount in 2017 will be at the same level, at ca. $3,000. zł. Prime Minister, the contract with the voters should be terminated. [[Applause]] [[Question, question.]] [[He's done his best. You can't have everything in your life.]] [[Question, man. There was no question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u242	Thank you very much. Ms Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak. There is no Member. Mrs. Margaret Navel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is an example of pre-election manipulation of Law and Justice. [[Why did you lie to the Poles?]] In November 2015, Prime Minister Szydło promised Poles in her exposé to raise the tax-free amount to 8 000. zł, so almost three times. The more free the amount is, the more money stays in the pockets of Poles. A similar declaration was made during the election campaign by President Andrzej Duda, who promised to raise the amount immediately after the election. How are these declarations for today's bill? What is more, as today's draft law has to do with the ruling of the Constitutional Court that the tax-free amount is too low and should be increased in 2017? Does the government care about its sovereign in any way? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You justify keeping this amount at the current level of ongoing work on tax reform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u244	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u245	These are plans to introduce a uniform tax next year.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u246	Now the question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u247	Since these works are already underway, I ask for more details, e.g. What are the rules... [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u248	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. I'm restricting you because you don't fit in in time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u249	Mr. Marshal, you're restricting our rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u250	Everyone has the same time to ask a question. I have to be fair.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u251	You should predict that a minute isn't enough on such an important point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u252	You don't fit in. It's not enough for you, it's enough for others. [[Mr. Marshal, a minute isn't enough, really not enough.]] You have to be brief. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wonder if there is a point in asking questions, since the applicant's representative is absolutely not present in the sitting room. [[Applause]] He won't listen, and he won't answer, because why? [[Voice from the room: But he listens to himself.]] It doesn't matter. This is a very important matter. [[But it's actually a good idea. Don't ask those questions.]] The legislative process has proved that the parliamentary bill in the part concerning tax, in general in its entirety, is not only unthinkable but also detrimental to the capital market. It introduces total chaos and undermines its stability. More, it poses a threat to foreign investors' outflow. We pointed to these threats. Fortunately, as a result of strong criticism of the National Bank of Poland, the Commission for Financial Supervision and other institutions, the authors kindly withdrew from this highly harmful project. But unfortunately, the information went to the market and it's very disturbing. [[There's a little left.]] I want to ask: Why hasn't the government put forward its position on this matter so far? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is this position, after all? I'd like you to reveal this position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u254	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Artur Gierada, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur: Will you support the Civic Platform's amendment increasing the tax-free amount to 8 000. Evil? This is, above all, the fulfilment of your election promise, the fulfilment of your President's promise, the execution of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment. It appears that judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal should be enforced in the State of law. The fact that you don't want to do this today makes me more surprised because Law and Justice haven't even surprised trade unions so long ago, raising the lowest national salary to 2,000. zł. Of course, he turned out to be a good uncle, except he was giving money out of his pocket. By supporting this amendment, by raising the tax-free amount, you leave de facto more, not 46 zlotys, as it is now, and 120 zlotys more, in each Pole's pocket. Question to you: Why do you not respect neither the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal nor Poles, why do you not respect their own words? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u256	Thank you. Now you are asking Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Platform Club. There's no envoy. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u257	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'd like to continue with my speech from the club speech. Well, all I want to add is that the capital that has been invested in Poland, which is reinvested in Poland, will go away. My question is to Prime Minister Morawiecki because he was going to London to encourage investors to invest in Poland. How now, in connection with this project, which was prepared so quickly, by mistake introduced into the Sejm, does he want to interest entrepreneurs from abroad, how he wants to interest Polish investors, Poles and Poles in investing in Polish investment funds? This is a question actually rhetorical, but nevertheless I want to ask it in this House: How, how do you want to encourage investors from abroad and from Poland to invest in Poland, since in this way you change the law on closed investment funds within a few days? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u258	Thank you. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u259	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Question one: Why do you not comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal when introducing a draft in this formula, and the government does not say that it is incompatible with the state in force that this is breaking... Tax-free amount. Or 5 gr. It's a shame, it's a normal shame, because there were promises, it was the president's project, it was the Civic Platform project that you rejected. Second thing, Minister. I wanted to ask you if the government has calculated how much it costs to tax investment funds, if that's what it says, outrageously. How much damage has been suffered in this market? And one last thing. Isn't the Minister - because he agreed - afraid of the consequences of the fact that it was not in accordance with the regulations in force in the second reading, bypassing the first reading, the elimination of tax interpretations? You deleted it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 100,000. tax rulings.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u260	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs... Member Krystyna Skowrońska: It's outrageous. [[Applause]] ... Isabella Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! Uh, using your statement that you're gonna answer questions, I'd like to... [[I'm trying.]] ...to answer such questions. Firstly, was it that in 2009 we had the biggest financial crisis since the 1930s? Was it so that in 2011 this financial crisis hit so-called. The second wave and the financial crisis were followed by the economic crisis, failing companies, countries such as Greece or Spain were cutting pensions, and the Polish budget and the Polish government therefore had lower tax revenues? These are publicly available data from Eurostat and GUS, so I think you will be able to answer this question. [[Fair enough.]] Is it true what I said? And the second question in this context. Do you think that the responsible government is in a situation where they are shrinking? [[♪ The bell ♪]] tax revenue, it should reduce this revenue...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u262	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u263	...by introducing a higher tax-free amount? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u264	I'm closing... No, I'm not closing the discussion yet. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Leszek Skiba will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Before I answer any questions, thank you for the discussion. Indeed, this law brings many benefits, first of all the most important benefit is that taxpayers know what amount is free in 2017. Legal certainty, legal certainty... [[Taxpayers know that PiS tricked them.]] [[But it's a duty.]] ...is important in this sense. I am returning to the point that Mrs Skowrońska was talking about, because it is indeed a thing, I have the impression that it is the most burning because of the fact that there is a lot of doubt about the amendment that has emerged in connection with the article. 3. Because what does an amendment make that changes the law on amending the Tax Order? This amendment only says so much: indeed, the law which was published in the Official Journal of the Laws, the Act of 13 May 2016, introduced a circumvention clause. The element of this law was this, it was such a provision in the article. 5, that tax interpretations and this protection value of interpretation, i.e. the statement that anyone who in Polish law receives an individual interpretation, has the possibility to protect himself against, can be said, if this is of course... [[From justice.]] ...to tax officials in the sense that they have a document that confirms that the interpretation protects the behaviour of the taxpayer, provided, of course, that everything is correct in the actual sense. [[Yeah, okay.]] [[Protective shield.]] That's right, the shield, there's a deal. That's the article. 5 there was a provision that they lose this protection value of those tax interpretations which are linked to such a mechanism - in the context of the circumvention procedure, it cannot be that someone says: I am breaking my tax scheme, which has passed the entire procedure under the clause, since in proceedings under the circumvention clause it is concluded that this tax optimisation scheme is illegal, the tax must be paid. So it can't be that tax interpretation, you can say, protects someone from this final decision based on the circumvention clause. And this record that came out yesterday is some sort of clarification of that record that says that they are losing the protection value of these individual interpretations, if we are dealing with a decision, you can say, a clause based on the circumvention clause. The clarification is due to the fact that there were many doubts of taxpayers as to whether the record which appeared originally in the Act which said that this protection value concerns the date of 15 July 2016, means that all interpretations... And so it should be in the sense that we have to recognise that this clause is really a general institution, and not rarely applied to large taxpayers with a turnover of 100,000. Evil or bigger, for very complicated things. [[It's not that much.]] And in this respect, we can say that this is a certain clarification. Both those interpretations which are issued after 15 July 2016 and those issued earlier, if, you can say, are in some conflict with the circumvention clause, lose the protection value. And in that sense, there's no 200,000. interpretation. The interpretation system, which, indeed, can be said to be one of the best in Europe in terms of this protection value for taxpayers in a situation of legal uncertainty, sometimes conflicts with tax offices, has not been challenged. It is only and only clarification that individual interpretations, including those before 15 July, as it was written, but not enough, can be said, precisely, in a situation where we have a conflict between individual interpretation and already issued by a clause decision, lose the protection value. So we're dealing with a very limited, small amount of interpretations that will lose the protection value. [[But it should be forward, not backward.]] In this respect, we are dealing with this mechanism. And as far as I'm concerned... [[No, the taxpayer is acting in confidence with the state.]] There were questions about the government's position here. The government's position is being prepared, a document has already been created. Of course he won't show up, he won't be approved. However, the procedure for adopting the position of government is ongoing, unable, cannot be adopted within one day or even a week because it must be approved by the entire Council of Ministers. [[Well, for some reason, it's just so there's no rush.]] And in this respect, I don't think... Second question, violation of the Constitutional Tribunal judgment. Please note that in this respect, the purpose of the government's action is to actually execute not only the judgment of the tribunal, because it is indeed the judgment of the tribunal that is subject to... There are many reflections, questions, whether this sentence three days after the election is really justified, as is the case with the political situation, or whether it was not a political sentence. [[Don't go there, Minister.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't exaggerate.]] But in this regard, regardless of this, it is worth really doing above all the purpose, the plan of law and justice, the political declaration from the election campaign, that the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło will raise the amount free to 8,000. zł. [[100 days.]] And that is the goal, and this date 1 January 2018 is maintained and is the objective of the government to increase the amount free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u266	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, will now speak. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, as a corrigendum.]] The Member was not mentioned. [[But why? I was mentioned.]] Not by name. [[I was mentioned by the Minister.]] No, but not by name. You're welcome, sir. [[By name, Mr. Marshal.]] I didn't hear it. [[Check it out.]] We'll check it out, okay? Thank you. [[But I'm asking for your vote and for you to check before you speak. The whole room heard it.]] One minute at a time, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u267	Thank you very much, Marshal. Three things, then, Minister. The Minister didn't understand the questions he asked or evasively answered them. Firstly, the judgment of the Constitutional Court - here we do not judge the judgment of the Constitutional Court - is and the State has declared that you will implement it. The President's draft law on the amount of free money has not been implemented, the Civic Platform has not delivered its hand, and now you are saying that the time has passed. Second thing. I said, "Maybe the rapporteur will tell me how much the market cost." It's a mess with the funds. That's one thing. And tax rulings. I think the Minister will agree and understand my question, although he evasively replied that, outside the rule of law, the first reading was omitted, and he does not convince - and I would ask the Minister to reply in writing - because the law should not work backwards, the principle of lex retro non agit should apply. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u268	Thank you, Member. You had a minute. We'll see if your name was mentioned, and we'll find out. Thank you very much. [[But of course, I can make a bet, I'm buying all my own money.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! How much did it cost the market? These are interesting and important questions, but during discussions and conversations this kind of thought has often sounded, and it is very valuable that Poland is to be powerful and rich, but also to be clean. The problem of integrity in business. After all, there has been a very clear signal that a group of Members is determined, and who knows, maybe even a little desperate, so that somebody finally gets smarter, for combinations. And there's nothing to be ashamed of. Failed attempts to heal the market are noble, even failed. [[Promises.]] And, Commissioner, if someone is criticizing, they should ask whether they have ever tried. [[Yeah, a lot of times, and that's good.]] So I don't want to get on that track here. [[Have you tried?]] And as for the tribunal judgment, I'm not a lawyer, but I'm a chess player and I like accuracy. [[It's not the same.]] Well, Judge Grenade, I think the Grenade, the judge of the tribunal has said very clearly that this is primarily the case - and that is the operative part, please, here - Article. Article 2 and Article 2 84 constitutions. Is the amount of free money really needed to raise it? No, she is needed and necessary for those people who have income below. Like I said, you nodded. Now, about the promises, of course, what you said is written down. You can use it, but the most important judge in the discussion is society, and the urn will tell you the truth. They did what they did this year, and they didn't do what they didn't do, but if... In those years that have passed, look behind you, maybe not you, but they... [[Ha ha ha.]] ...you'll see what has been done for eight years, and what has been done... I've been out of this tribune a lot of times, I've been disappointed, but there's really a huge change in social policy. [[And look at that, after 2007.]] I was talking about this irony not because I mocked the 2 zlotys, the hidden irony was that after 8 years of maintaining 3,000. with such a voice of condemnation to us that we haven't done it in a year. This is, ladies and gentlemen, not fair. It's even worse, really. And what's said is said. [[But we didn't promise, we never promised, sir, you were supposed to be honest.]] I know, I can tell you from my mind how many men, who, like the President of the United States, Donald, here said what he would do in areas, in health, in the economy, in everything, really. [[And Beata?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u270	Madame, take it easy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u271	But let's not bid, I'm a stable man now, so I'm not gonna let you get me into this mess and debate. I'll answer calmly if anyone agrees or doesn't. So when it comes to legislative art, indeed, I would like here what the Minister said... I listened because I'm the rapporteur. You can either agree with this or not, but the interpretation is that this annihilation, in your opinion, of all tax opinions, does not apply in the gym, completely, totally all interpretations. Absolutely not, on the contrary, all tax opinions, which were of a protective nature, are weapons in the hands of taxpayers. [[Interpretations. Not opinions, not interpretations.]] That line...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u272	Madam, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u273	I have emotions, too, and sometimes I can't keep them in check - I always pray for it, but sometimes I can't do it - but I will really be calm. [[But you promised honesty.]] Member of the Commission, emotions. Who has ears, let him listen. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So if someone had - and it's been different and we know what's going on - and he wants to plead that he has an opinion, then today this government says no, and he expects to be applauded, not criticized. [[Voice from the room: This is a parliamentary project.]] Yeah, and that's the change. Yeah, in a lot of things, we scratch like a cat on a glass top and go downstairs. It doesn't work, it doesn't work, but the fight is done and there are first results. And God lead. [[Applause]] [[Amen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u274	Thank you very much, sir. [[Voice from the room: Can I ask you something?]] The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Game in the O.R.]] Madam, perhaps you will continue the discussion in the roundabouts. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mrs... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Ah, excuse me, Marshal.]] You're welcome. I didn't hear the objection. The relevant committees have submitted reports on draft laws: amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers, amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. Those reports shall be printed in 1010 and 1019 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 on the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft Parliamentary Law amending the Animal Protection Act (prints No 897 and 986). I ask Mr Piotr Olszówka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u275	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the committee, to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on a project to complement the local authorities' own tasks in order to prevent the homelessness of animals, print No 897. The project proposes that the calculation of the elements of the homeless care programme and the prevention of homelessness be open, and that the programme may include a plan for sterilization or castration of animals in the municipality. On 2 September 2016, the project entered the Sejm, on 4 October 2016 it was addressed to first reading in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. The first reading of the Joint Committee was held on 4 November 2016. After the first reading, a report was drawn up in committees, print No 986. As a rule, print project 897 is not controversial. Representatives of associations or self-governments present in the Chamber did not raise any objections, the project liked it. A minor editorial adjustment has been introduced in the article. 1 in Amendment 2. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy adopted the report together with the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u276	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Wozniak will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the draft Law No 897 on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act. This has become necessary in the project - the rules have been detailed and extended in order to regulate more comprehensively the policy of the protection and prevention of the homelessness of animals and to carry out the tasks of self-governments in this area. Overpopulation of pets and scale of homelessness according to the NIK report, which appeared this year, have several reasons, of which the most important are the low awareness and lack of education in this matter among Poles, with particular attention to the issue of sterilization and castration as the main method of preventing uncontrolled reproduction, as well as the lack of legal opportunities according to local authorities, which cannot spend money on these activities, especially as regards animals that have their owners. According to the report, no one in the municipality is still able to effectively prevent the homelessness of animals. Most of them did not implement a labelling plan for all animals or put in place real incentives in terms of castration or sterilization of dogs and cats with owners. Some municipalities have not even ensured mandatory sterilization by hostels. As a result, the number of animals caught is increasing, as well as the expenditure incurred in caring for them. Although more and more homeless animals find their new home, there are still far fewer of them than those that go to shelters. The results of the checks indicate that the way to really solve the problem of animal homeless, including the reduction of the costs necessary to care for animals, is not to put animals in better and more expensive shelters, but, above all, to programme and finance preventive measures that, in the long term, eliminate or marginalise the phenomenon of animal homelessness. One of the follow-up requests is to allow the Animal Protection Act to provide financing for animals from municipalities for the sterilization of animals outside shelters, while respecting the rights of their owners. The municipalities did not direct any incentive to animal owners to castrate and sterilize them. They explained that, in the current legal state, funding for these procedures is not acceptable. Many municipalities wanted to introduce these measures in their programme concerning the care of homeless animals in the framework of resolutions, but unfortunately the voivodships claimed that there was no statutory authorisation or legal basis for these actions to be considered lawful. Also in the proceedings, some courts agreed to this position, i.e. the position of the voivods. Therefore, among others. in this parliamentary project, to the catalogue contained in Article. 11 The Animal Protection Act, which is a closed catalogue, introduces one provision on the possibility for local governments to sterilize their own animals. In the perspective of a few years, all municipalities will benefit from this, because it is the animals that own the largest number of reproductions. This is a positive and necessary change to ensure better protection of animals. The sterilization could be managed on a voluntary basis within the programme, and if the municipalities have their resources, there is no reason not to introduce this provision and not to allow them to do so. We therefore recommend that the High House adopt this draft law also in line with the position of the Committee on Agriculture and Local Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the Act amending the Animal Protection Act. It is good that we regulate animal rights, because the world is changing, and human mentality. [[Animals change.]] Local governments are also looking forward to dealing with these issues because they could then spend money on their own task of caring for homeless animals. The proposed amendments therefore ensure consistency of the rules. However, we have lost the historic opportunity to draw up a comprehensive law that regulates all issues and clarifies all the catalogues of concepts that exist here. There weren't enough, among other things. the introduction of an obligation to chip animals and the issue of the central register kept by the Veterinary Medical Chamber. The catalogue of activities considered to be animal abuse has not been extended. There is no environment expected for proanimals to ban dogs on the chain, and transitional provisions remain in force. The formula for running animal shelters in the form of economic activities has not been changed, they should be run by local government units and their agendas or by statutory organisations for this purpose, animal protection organisations, public benefit organisations, since 1% can then be used. transfer to such activities. There was no strengthening of the absolute supervision of the Veterinary Inspection. Today, we should change the Animal Protection Act in such a way as to protect the public money of wojets, mayors, presidents. According to the NIK inspection report, there are a lot of irregularities in controlled animal shelters. It is estimated that over PLN 100 million per year is coming from the budgets of local government units for the protection of animals, and this does not guarantee the expected effect due to the lack of proper regulation. This money often feeds the accounts of the workers and the wicked. However, the Civic Platform will support the bill because it is expected by local government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u280	Thank you. Mr Robert Mordak will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Animal Protection Act, print No 897. The main objective of the draft amendment to this law is the need to regulate the rights of homeless animals which, unfortunately, in the past have been treated as municipal waste in an unworthy manner. The current shape of the law did not give municipalities the possibility to comprehensively prevent the homelessness of animals. Following the adoption of the proposed amendment, preventing the homelessness of animals and providing care for homeless animals will be the responsibility of the municipalities themselves. This will oblige them to adopt and finance their own resources programmes including, inter alia,: providing homeless animals with shelters, caring for free living cats, including feeding them, catching homeless animals, searching for owners for homeless animals. In addition, the Act will facilitate sterilization, with full respect for the rights of owners or other persons under whom animals remain protected, which can clearly lead to the elimination of the problem of homelessness in the long term. In view of the above, Kukiz15 will vote in favour of the bill amending the Animal Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u282	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Lieder will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u283	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the proposal for a parliamentary bill amending the Animal Protection Act. [[The lynx bill.]] In the framework of the amendment of the Animal Protection Act in Art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Another, i.e. prevention of the homelessness of animals, was added to the tasks of the municipalities themselves, which are to provide care and capture for homeless animals. The provision on the care programme for homeless animals and the prevention of homelessness of animals has been added that it may include a plan for their sterilization, castration, while respecting the rights of animal owners. According to the Supreme Audit Chamber, the previous experience of municipalities that have decided to implement such programmes is to confirm that sterilization and castration are investments that not only improve animal welfare but also save public money. Pre-emptive actions programmed and funded by local authorities have the best effect. The current law limits the catalogue of activities of local governments. Ununiform practice of municipalities causes that only some of them encourage owners of dogs and other animals to sterilize and castrate through the funding of such treatments. The introduction of the law does not oblige changes to current programmes. In practice, this provision may not change much. It may be that the municipalities which have so far engaged in financing such operations will continue to do so, and those who have done nothing in this direction will not change this. Legislative changes lack provisions on the central register of pet owners and the obligation to label them. Such a procedure would allow quick identification of the owners of the animals found. Thus, there would not be so many cases of abandoning animals without any consequences. The lack of an effective identification system causes many dogs and cats to disappear after being caught by their animals. They are often killed or sent to shelters, which generates costs, and it is difficult to hold the owners of these animals responsible. By the way, I would like to point out that Poland has not yet signed the European Convention for the Protection of Accompanying Animals adopted by the Council of Europe on 13 November 1987. The Convention requires that the reproduction of pet animals for trade is permitted only under the supervision of the relevant State authority. It's written in the article. 8. State action towards total inhibition of shady farming is very important not only in terms of the increasing costs of municipalities, but also of the associated pathologies causing suffering and homelessness of dogs and cats. Although this project does not solve many problems, it is certainly a step forward and needed. Sterilization is one of the cheapest ways to fight animal homeless. The officials of many municipalities do not take these measures because they believe that, in their current legal state, the financing of sterilization and castration procedures is not acceptable. The revision of the rules will change this state of affairs. I am a member of a team of animal friends and I wonder, I have a question for Members writing this bill: Why is this such a narrow scope? Because we worked in a team on a very wide range of amendments to the Animal Protection Act. I hope that this is the first good step and that we will go further with the work, because here is a very, very much to do and many animals are suffering unnecessarily. That's for example. concerns dogs kept on the chain, animals reared for fur and, for example, animals in circuses. I hope this is the first step and we'll move on. The Modern Posel Club, of course, supports the proposed amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u284	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project is one of many projects - yet one of many - that go to the High House and do not cause controversy. It does not produce financial consequences, it does not impose large, impossible obligations. This project goes in the right direction, that is, on the one hand, it provides animals - this trend is already clearly seen - more and better protection - the mentality in this area is changing - and on the other hand it also consumes the expectations of local governments that want to have clear, well defined rules on their local policy opportunities, on animals that are able to, let's call it, free, but often they are wandering dogs and cats. In this case, we're dealing with this. There is therefore no need for amendments. The Polish People's Party Club supports this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u286	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the proposal for a parliamentary bill amending the Animal Protection Act. As part of the project under investigation, applicants propose to extend their own tasks to prevent the homelessness of animals and that the calculation of elements of the homeless care and homelessness prevention programme be open and that the programme may include a plan for sterilization or castration of animals in the municipality. As the designers rightly point out, the current regulation in this area is not sufficient and does not respond sufficiently to the challenges of the policy of preventing the homelessness of animals. Problems with the interpretation of existing law, the repeal by voivodships of parts of resolutions on the sterilization of owner animals do not promote the proper development of this policy. In addition, adopted legal solutions focusing only on providing care to homeless animals and catching them at the same time increase their cost of living. The introduction of these regulations will ensure consistency between the scope of the commune's tasks and the legal act taken to carry out these tasks, will contribute to making the municipalities more flexible in how they carry out their own tasks in this area and will enable the municipalities to continue and even expand their tasks in this financial year. In view of the welfare of both homeless and owner animals, considering the proposed solutions to be right, the Free and Solidarni Circle supports this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u288	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after I ask you the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u289	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask if there is anyone present on behalf of the applicants, because I would like to address the question to someone representing this group of Members. Of course, this change is due to a number of legal activities carried out during checks, such as by the Supreme Chamber of Control, and it is very desirable, and I am concerned that the work has been carried out in preparation for the parliamentary project, which is very microscopic, because in the vast need to improve animal welfare there are many different changes that the High Chamber, I hope, will soon adopt. With the undoubted privilege of running the Parliamentary Animal Friends Team, I would like to assure the High House that this team will soon - and I am thinking about this year - be ready to finish work on a comprehensive amendment that will be able to significantly improve animal welfare, especially domestic animals. Therefore, I would like to appeal to the High House as the overarching body in the regulation of animal welfare, so that animal harm does not continue to wear political colors, and that in the near future the changes that have been very, very expected for at least three years can also be adopted in such a concerted spirit. I would like to ask you a question, perhaps the honourable Member [[♪ The bell ♪]] The rapporteur will be able to answer them. Why didn't applicants try to expand the scope of the project, which could also consume many other problems...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u290	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u291	What kind of trouble are we dealing with right now? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u292	Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The overpopulation of pet animals, and hence the increasing scale of homelessness of these animals, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, has several reasons. Firstly, it is a lack of education, and secondly, a lack of knowledge of society. The results of the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit this year show that the way to really solve the problem of homelessness of animals, including the reduction of the necessary expenditure on care, is not to place animals in better and more expensive shelters, but, above all, to programme and finance preventive measures that, in the long term, eliminate or marginalise the phenomenon of homelessness of animals. Owners, for various reasons, in many cases, dispose of their animals, abandoning them, and the municipalities later bear very high costs of catching them, building shelters and maintaining them. I would therefore like to ask: Is the Ministry considering introducing a statutory obligation to label, chip and register animals in a uniform, nationwide electronic system? Currently Art. Article 11a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The 3th Animal Protection Act only provides for the possibility to take such an action, and only at the level of the municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u294	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! In my club speech, I forgot to ask about a case that arouses quite a lot of interest and concerns among farmers, especially from areas that are relatively close to large urban agglomerations. The case does not directly concern this project and does not concern animals such as dogs and cats. It probably concerns the Law of Hunting Law and more the Minister of the Environment, which is why if the Minister of Agriculture is unable to answer this question, I would ask the Marshal to refer this question to the Minister of the Environment. The point is that in many cities we are dealing with such a phenomenon that people's peace is disturbed by wild boars - wild boars who walk the streets, wild boars who are in parks, wild boars who are absolutely not afraid of people, and people should be afraid of these animals. It is common practice that wild boars are used in such cases. Now the question is, what's next with these wild boars? In the opinion of many farmers from areas such as the one where I live, i.e. located at a distance of 30 and 40 km from large agglomerations, these wild boars are released in those areas, which excessively increases their population and causes damage. The population of these animals is disturbed and the hunting economy is disturbed in this regard, because inventory is carried out at another time, the plan of firing - at another time, the hunting circles carry out certain tasks, and these boars are too much and they do damage. What the law says about it [[♪ The bell ♪]] And are we dealing with compliance with the law of hunting wild boars and releasing them in another area, or is that breaking the law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u296	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u297	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of animal homeless is increasingly burning and severe. This problem also applies to an increasing group of animals. So far, this problem has actually been associated with animals usually associated with humans, i.e. dogs and cats. Today, this problem is also extended to other species of animals, including livestock, which are wild and become homeless animals, often having difficulty in gaining food, and are also dangerous. Another group of animals that become homeless are not only animals thrown out of their homes like dogs and cats, but also exotic animals. I wanted to ask the Minister what are the actions with regard to these other animal groups - not necessarily those accompanying animals, but those which appear, both farm and farm, sometimes exotic. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u298	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All of my previous speakers admitted, including the applicant's Member, the rapporteur, that this is a little controversial project that meets the expectations of local authorities. Many local authorities would like to extend this catalogue in the article. 11a Act on the protection of animals for the possibility of implementing local sterilization programs or castration of pet animals. In this way, they would prevent homelessness, taking into account the rights of owners, from increasing the number of homeless animals. Contrary to appearances, local government officials also raise this issue. This may also result in positive financial results by reducing the recovery of these animals. This is the objective that can be achieved through this type of action. So the parliamentary project is in line with the views of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and meets our expectations. During the discussion there appeared among others. further questions. First of all, the issue of the expected central system for the identification and registration of pets has been raised for many years. At the moment, the Ministry of Agriculture has prepared three expert reports on this central register. The cost of basic service, i.e. the purchase of a server, the creation of a list, the purchase of suitable devices - even for reading, if there was a choice of way of chipping such animals - is about PLN 5 million. The cost of service is not included. I would like to return to Mr Maliszewski's question, which concerned boars, catching them, releasing them outside urban agglomerations. The Member here rightly pointed out that this harvest is carried out in accordance with the Hunting Law. Such a system is currently legally foreseen. However, there is no possibility of firing within the city limits, i.e. this kind of task cannot be carried out by the Polish Hunting Union. The population outside urban agglomerations can only be fished and thickened, as the Member has noted. According to a communication issued by the Minister of Environment, among others. through a programme for the eradication or mitigation of the effects of African swine fever, the population of feral pigs in our country has fallen from 230 000. To a little over 140,000. Pieces. The concentration in our country does not exceed - at the end of October and at the beginning of November - 0.5 units per square kilometer were inventoried. So I think that this kind of method, which is fishing and releasing these boars outside the agglomerations, will no longer have as negative effects as it has so far. We do not hide that it is precisely in connection with the eradication or mitigation of the effects of African swine fever that sanitary discharge continues to take place. The Minister of the Environment also ordered shootings, execution of hunting plans, which are carried out by managers or administrators of hunting circuits in cooperation with the Polish Łowiecki Union. Another issue raised by Mr Wojciechowski concerned the so-called. exotic animals or other accompanying animals. As the Member rightly pointed out, this problem is beginning to arise, but these animals, which thus accompany man, are treated equally, whether it be a dog, a cat, or an exotic animal. The Animal Protection Act therefore covers the full scope of accompanying animals. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The position of the Ministry of Agriculture coincides with the proposal presented to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u300	Thank you very much to the Minister and I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Piotr Olszówka, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u301	Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much for this vote today, for this debate. I think there should be more like that. We agree that this bill is very much needed. Self-governments were waiting for this, all the more so, all the associations that care about the protection of animals whose fate of animals is not alien. So that I would like to thank you all very warmly today for this good voice. I hope there'll be more like that in the Seym. I think the government will be pleased, and thus our society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u302	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs and the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on the Charter of Poles and the Act on Foreigners (prints No. 904 and 977). I ask Mr Michał Dworczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Communication with Poles abroad on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on the Charter of Poles and the Act on Foreigners, print No. 904. High Izbo, I inform you that the Sejm at its 28th meeting on 20 October 2016 in accordance with Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he submitted a bill amending the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on Foreigners, print No 904, to the Commission for Administration and Internal Affairs and the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad for consideration. Joined committees: the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs and the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 3 November 2016, they ask the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u304	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Dworczyk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have nothing left but to add that the Law and Justice Club will support the proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u306	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will take longer because this law, although very necessary and important, contains a number of issues that need to be arranged differently, and we regret that such records go to second reading. Especially two, or even three, can cause great humiliation and discomfort for beneficiaries. The first is the one concerning the submission of the application, namely the proposal is submitted to the voivodeship. The original record was about submitting to the old age, and it was a good record, because submitting an application to the voivodship causes the procedure to be extended and the beneficiaries will be exposed to much longer waiting after submitting the application. The record is also quite vague because it is said that an application for an allowance should be submitted 3 months from the date of the application for this authorisation. But should it be submitted within 3 months, whether it should be submitted when the decision is made, it is not clearly clarified, and since there is still no document other than the law - these matters are to be settled in regulations, but there are no regulations - I think we still do not know exactly how this thing will be handled. Finally, another provision concerning the same, i.e. the submission of applications, is Article. 8b, which says that the payment of the cash benefit - I still call it an allowance, and it is nicer to say, of course: the benefit - is made by an old-timer during the month. But in a month's time from what? Again: Or since the decision? No clarification. That's to the first problem, talking about the voivodship's old-timer relationship. The second problem is much more serious, namely the governor indicated by the voivode will be responsible for the execution, for the transfer of this benefit. We spoke at the committee meeting - this is a great regret and discomfort that this request has not been taken into account - that it should pay this benefit to the elder at the place of residence of the person concerned. For 9 months, a person applying for a benefit may move and not necessarily have a bank account. So if the governor indicated by the voivode is an old-timer, e.g. from Rzeszow, and the person will move to Szczecin, or will she come every month for that money? Again, the mode is under-defined and this can become a cause of great discomfort for beneficiaries. Finally, the third case, also very sad, maybe the most sad one, namely the provisioning funds are secured in reserve, but in the amount of 30 million. However, if we only take these measures to interest in the permanent residence card of last year, the sum should be three times higher. So what happens if the money doesn't, if it gets exhausted 75% the sum for the year? Then the list will be closed and the proposals will continue for the following year. Imagine how quickly this list will fill up. And I think we want it to be filled up quickly, because we want Poles with a Pole's Card to perform for a permanent residence card, but what harm will it be for those who will not be able to receive the benefits, although they will count on them. I think that all these difficulties taken together unfortunately do not work well in the implementation of this law, and the first-born sin is the matter of the voivode's examination of the applications, not the old woman's. It would be much closer to the person concerned, it would be much more comfortable for her, it would be much easier to contact, in fact it would be a much simpler and better solution. This centralization is bad, we're misjudged. Nevertheless, in order to give applicants a chance, the Civic Platform will support this proposal with these reservations and a negative assessment of the amendments I have just mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u308	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As before, at the first reading, in the committee's work, we have pointed out that Kukiz15 will, of course, support this project to the extent it concerns. However, we will continue to call for the mechanism to control the spending of this money on people who want to settle permanently in Poland to be launched. Within such a short period of time as this amendment was being examined, we unfortunately did not have time to prepare it. We look forward to the responses from the ministries regarding access to registers and the whole procedure in which such a check could be carried out. So that I think that together with my colleagues on the committee... Mr President also said that we were getting the green light to start and continue this kind of work. Maybe it'll be a parliamentary project, maybe it'll be a commission project, see how it works in the future. In fact, after talking to the members of the committee, we believe that the control mechanism for the spending of this money should not have the same shape as at the moment, that there is a risk that, after carrying out the audit, the control of the spending of this money after a year will turn out to be 90% people covered by the resettlement aid scheme simply did not settle in Poland, but benefited from the financial benefits of the scheme and went back abroad. To the extent that we are talking about amendments to this project, Kukiz15 supports it. We encourage you to work on sealing the system of public spending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u310	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of Modern about the draft amendment of the Polish Charter Act. I must say that from the beginning we support this project, and from the beginning I personally support this project as an extremely important one, I consider it to be a matter of fundamental matters, a matter of the state of the Republic of Poland. It is extremely important to insist on our fellow countrymen who have remained abroad. We are working on this project outside the political divisions, and I am very happy about it from the beginning. It was with this greater sadness that I adopted the decision of the committee to reject the initiative that I had tabled, to set up a subcommittee. I believe that working on the detailed provisions of this law would be possible and effective in such a smaller group, with access to the information that my previous speakers mentioned. Indeed, the law still contains a number of provisions that need to be clarified and Poland cannot afford to fail in this case. We can't afford to have this very needy, very good program run with mistakes. These errors actually exist, and my predecessors pointed out these errors. It is a matter of some comfort of Poles, their ancestors, so that when they come to our country with the intention of settling, they can count on professional, fast, efficient service so that they do not really have to travel in our country to complete all formalities resulting from the bill. Finally, what is important is that we must be sure that this instrument will work properly that it will not cause any abuses that are possible here, which Mr Bakun has said about them. I declare my willingness to continue to work on this system to seal, to repair this law, so that we can proudly say that we have prepared a project that meets the expectations that have been formulated for decades, and that the Republic has finally responded to these expectations in an appropriate manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour, pleasure on behalf of the Polish People's Party to present a position regarding the Commission's draft law on amending the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on Foreigners, print No. 904. The amendments presented above all relate to the fact that, instead of an old-timer, the voivode is identified as the competent authority for granting a monetary benefit to the holder of the Polish Charter, and the establishment of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs as a higher authority in these matters. This concerns the provision of mechanisms to ensure that funds are spent. I do not hide that this whole cycle, which allows us to monitor how many people are applying for the Polish Charter, will certainly have a lot more... Life will show us... We know it's a very good target. Let us remind you that in 2007 the first steps concerning the Polish Charter were taken. For so many years, however, also in this term of office, the Sejm amends it, catches the mistakes of life, the administrative ones that need to be corrected in order to seal it more. It must also be remembered that Poles from abroad expect to receive the Polish Charter as soon as possible. Certainly the Polish People's Party sees that there is a need to adopt a law on amending the Polish Charter Act. I wish that as many of them as possible would benefit from this and that as much financial resources as possible be included in the budget for this purpose. We are not commenting on the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u314	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor. There's no envoy. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. For the time being, there is one person, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, but there is no Member. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Sebastian Chwałk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, a body which will be responsible for the special-purpose reserve intended to cover monetary benefits for the holders of the Polish Charter settling in Poland, I would like to inform you that we welcome the proposals presented by the President of the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad to amend the Polish Charter Act. I am personally convinced that they will improve the process of granting cash benefits to holders of this card settling in Poland and, at the same time, ensure that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration can manage and control the spending of funds from the special reserve of the state budget for this purpose. I would like to remind you that PLN 30 million was foreseen for this purpose in 2017. I would immediately like to address the question about this amount. We are aware that this amount does not have to meet real needs. It is highly likely that the demand to be expressed in the form of applications submitted will exceed this amount. However, I must stress, although it is a very important task for you, that this is the possibility of the 2017 budget. It is better, however, to use even this very small amount, albeit limited, than not to allocate any amount at all. We will see how the implementation of this programme will develop and, depending on the budgetary possibilities, there may be changes in this area. An indication of the voivodeship instead of the old-fashioned one as the competent authority for conducting monetary benefit cases for holders of the Polish Charter who intend to settle in Poland and issue decisions in this respect, i.e. these are the proposed articles. 8a and 8b of the amended law, in our opinion, will certainly improve the procedure. The Voivodeship is the competent authority for examining applications for permanent residence permits, with which the entitlement to a monetary benefit is linked. The conduct of both proceedings before this single body will certainly shorten the waiting time for the parties to decide and eliminate the need to submit the same documents to several authorities. Therefore, it does not seem appropriate to see here the extension of the whole procedure. Similarly, I would like to comment on the comments on the over-complicated procedure that will act against the interests of the potential beneficiaries concerned. During the work on this project, it has been stressed on several occasions that all pathologies and attempts to extort, not so few, must be prevented. They are highly likely, therefore state control in the form of voivodship control seems at this point to be the most sensible solution. The aim is to find the right balance between the comfort of the beneficiaries and the interests of the State, which must counteract all negative phenomena. In conclusion, once again, I stress the support of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration for the proposed changes, as we consider them to be most appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u316	Thank you very much, Minister. Sorry about the mistake. You said Minister Skib, of course. Mr Michael Dworczyk, rapporteur of the committee, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, it will be a part of repeating the Minister's words, but I would like to refer to Mrs Fabisiak's speech. We have been aware of the budgetary possibilities for the next year from the outset, and we have had these declarations. We knew from the beginning that this amount was insufficient. We would like to see more of these measures, but the budgetary possibilities are what they are. We really had a choice: either not to introduce this solution at all, or to introduce it with awareness of all the consequences. I think it's going to be a lot of help for our compatriots, and that's the positive signals that are already there. Let us really look forward to the future, let us not only see the problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u318	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask if the phenomenon of several benefits being received by the same persons was frequent. I understand that the sealing of the system introduced by the law will mean extending the availability of the provision for more people, more Poles from the borders and places of delivery and their descendants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u320	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the governmental draft law amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration (prints No. 930 and 1009). I ask Mr Piotr Kaleta to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u321	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present a report on the committee's work. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration, which concerned the expression of an opinion on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, the Parliamentary Printing No. 930. I ask you, in connection with the regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers just after the elections last year, there was an idea to transform the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Administration and Digitisation into the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and create this resort in a separate way. By recasting the former Ministry of Home Affairs, it was necessary to amend the names of the entities so far subject to the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, such as the State Sanitary Inspection of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Board of Housing Resources of the Ministry of Home Affairs. The project includes changes in the following laws: in the Law on the State Sanitary Inspection, in the Act on the Housing of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, in the Act on Nuclear Law, in the Act on Micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms, in the Law on Pharmaceutical Law, in the Act on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland, in the Act on Anti-drugs, in the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, in the Act on the participation of the public in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments, in the Act on the prevention and control of infections and infectious diseases in people, in the Act on Chemicals and their mixtures, in the Act on the Military Property Agency, in the Act on Public Health, in the Act on biocidal products. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal also provides for amendments to the Law of 4 March 2010 on the Infrastructure for Spatial Information by providing the Minister responsible for computerising tasks related to the creation and maintenance of the geoportal of spatial information infrastructure. Another amendment concerns the Act of 30 May 1996 on the remuneration of the former President of the Republic of Poland, which refers to the Minister of Home Affairs. This was replaced by the term "minister responsible for home affairs'. The draft law shall not be notified in accordance with the procedure laid down in the rules on the functioning of the national system of notification of standards and acts as it does not contain technical provisions. The scope of this regulation is also not covered by Union law. Ladies and gentlemen! 17 amendments to the Act were tabled at the committee meeting. These were the amendments of the Legislative Bureau and had in their assumption so on the good issue of editorial corrections and included proposals for amendments on the way in which this law was implemented. In addition, a representative of the Ministry of Digitality proposed amendments to the relevant articles and they concerned the repeal of the Article. 100 telecommunications rights. This is linked to the budgetary constraints at the disposal of the Minister. It concerns the provision of network connection services to ensure the use of broadband services. First of all, it was about individuals such as schools, school or other libraries, as well as universities. First of all, it was about educational units. The aim of this amendment is to make use of EU funds instead of the budget resources of the Ministry. The next amendment concerns Article. 183 Telecommunication Law and aims to amend part of the provisions on telecommunications charges. Currently, all fee issues are regulated in a single regulation, which must simply be revised annually. The last amendment concerns provisions on support for the development of telecommunications services and networks. Indicates the rules to be applied to access to infrastructure or telecommunications network accordingly. The amendment also states that the relevant provisions of Section I of Chapter 3 of the Telecommunication Law of 16 July 2004 apply to the decision on access to technical infrastructure. The last amendment was the introduction of an additional article. 23a, which is the consequence of this article, which I was talking about at the beginning about the amendments related to the Ministry of Digitalization. The aim of this amendment is to maintain the Minister of Infrastructure's current regulation on the amount, timing and method of payment of the annual telecommunications fee. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission at its meeting yesterday was not unanimous, it was not unanimous. During the discussion, doubts were raised as to the validity, above all, of the three amendments proposed by the Minister for Digitalisation. They aroused controversy on the way of legislation. The point was whether this bill that we are talking about today, which we want to update, is actually right for us to lean over the matter of these charges. As I said, the committee was not unanimous, but by a majority of 11 to 7, with one abstention, the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration supported the government proposal to amend this law. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u322	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u323	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to refer to the draft law, print No 930, on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Interior and Administration. The rapporteur discussed the changes that were adopted at the meeting in detail. Yesterday, the committee - I would just add that all these changes were 19; among these changes were substantive amendments and legislative amendments - it accepted these amendments by a majority, and today I wanted to make another, other amendment on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. She's talking about the article. 27 projects. Namely, the point is to amend the provision that the Act enters into force 30 days after its adoption - that is the wording of the provision in this report of the Finance Committee - on the statement that it enters into force on 1 January 2017, with the exception of the provisions of the Article. Paragraph 24 2 and 3 which will enter into force on the day of the announcement. I would like to present this amendment to the marshal. Of course, on behalf of the parliamentary club, I support all changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u324	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! During the committee meeting, three amendments were introduced, which differ far from the matter of the law, and this led to the biggest dispute at the committee meeting. You shouldn't do that. The Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly drawn attention to this and we have already repeatedly argued that this is a bad legal practice. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I am making amendments to your Marshal who corrects this error - I would like to present them to the Marshal - in order to delete these amendments. Today we do not have an impact assessment of these amendments. The Ministry wasn't here. is able to tell us how this will affect the competitiveness of the economy and entrepreneurship, how this will affect the regulatory burden. We do not know how this will affect the labour market. In the draft law, which is a very simple law and aims to adapt the name, we read that it is adapted and ordered. This is all the more reason why amendments should not be made, which are already very substantive. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, unfortunately, I cannot maintain our positive assessment of the bill. Now, if this is adopted by the High House unchanged, we will unfortunately have to vote against this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u326	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to print 930, i.e. the law amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, it seemed that it was a very simple law and changes only the nomenclature in how many laws there, where the change in the name of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration caused some records to be outdated, but here, as my previous speaker has already said, many entries have been introduced that go beyond this ordinary change. I'm not going to hide that there's been a lot of doubt about two things. It is about separating the geoportal, which has so far been subordinate to the Ministry of Interior and Administration. At the moment, he will be assigned to the Minister of Digitisation. It turns out that this is another bill prepared without any consultation. I have here the opinion of the Management Board of the General Association of Polish Geodetics and representatives of six organizations who very critically evaluate the ideas contained in this law, because they think that it should not to become a situation where related cases are separated and this geoportal is artificially secreted. On the other hand, some of this geodetic information will be subordinated to the Ministry of Digitalization and some will be addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. And it's a huge mess. To all of this, our critical remarks are related to another example of such a staff law, because in the meantime, the Council, which advised the Minister, is changing - I would like to point out that this is a council whose members are paid - and from day to day all members of the board are fired to form a new council. The statement by the Prime Minister's representatives was that the Council did not essentially change the scope of its action, and we were very surprised that this change was taking place when the other workers were transferred directly from one ministry to another. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u328	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u329	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Continuing with my colleague's thought, I would also like to say a few words about this law. We followed it at first reading - where the Modern Club pointed out a few different elements, which in our assessment should be resolved differently. One such element is the question of protection that is available to the former President. We have encouraged you, however, that this practice, which has so far been sanctioned, instead you have applied such a legislative procedure so that it cannot be seen that you mean it. That's too bad. It seems that parliamentary clubs would agree to adopt this solution in such an improved formula, because it is natural and we should take care of those of our highest representatives who also represent our country at a time when they no longer act as heads of state, the President of the Republic, and yet are exposed to various types of perturbation, so to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the article. 23, in which, de facto, by law, the government is trying to fire all those members of the council that my colleague had just spoken about. It seems that this is not a good idea, therefore we are submitting an amendment to Mr Marshal, who simply deletes this article. 23. Ladies and gentlemen, there are certain rules that you should follow. It is certainly not the principle of discounting, so we urge the Ministry in normal, ordinary mode, if it sees a need for partial or even a complete replacement of the entire composition of this body, did so in accordance with the regulations, did not create a special law to fire these people. About the art. 24, we believe, however, that it is necessary for workers who have so far carried out their duties to be clear about the situation and should not be affected by the fact that we are transferring departments or individuals from one state office to another, so we are making such an amendment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to protect their interests from the so-called. A good change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u330	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u331	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Polish People's Party will always choose smart, reasonable and rational solutions in the submitted projects regardless of the political agreement. For many months from this stand, I have assured and assure you that wise opposition is a constructive opposition, not a destabilizing or even paralyzing work of Parliament. The Polish People's Party on this issue has not changed its opinion and position. A strong proof to support our position was and is the full acceptance of the solutions contained in the government draft law from print no. 930. Personally, I have expressed this position, understanding fully the need for an amendment in such a way as to be absolutely connected with the management of the areas of affairs actually arising from the jurisdiction of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration as a constitutionally responsible body for carrying out the tasks entrusted. By notifying a priori acceptance of print solutions 930, I was absolutely convinced that the committee would lean on the government's submission in the area presented by the government. Unfortunately, an old, good and, as it turns out, tried customary party ruling the back door tries to introduce into the bill records far beyond the print no. 930. If it's worked so far, it's gonna work this time. High Izbo! Even a brief overview of the amendments made proves that they have nothing to do with the matter - not only do they go beyond it, but it would not be possible to place the provisions proposed by the committee on the tasks of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. In view of this situation, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will abstain from voting, which will be a disapproval of this type of practice of placing entries on order and, consequently, accepting responsibility for this state of affairs. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u332	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I took part in the honour of presenting a position on behalf of the Kukiz club15 to the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Interior and Administration, print No. 930. One would like to say: and it was meant to be so simple, easy, nice, pleasant and fast. And actually to the first leaning over this law it seemed so: the formal order, the issue of a certain retouch, the name changed, the structure changed. Unfortunately, the last meeting of the Home Affairs Committee has shown that the matter is neither simple nor nice, nor quick, nor pleasant. The atmosphere itself, and at the same time the way of leaning on these issues, has shown that this will not be the case. At this point, I'm not hiding that the government's side has demolished Today, this trust of the Kukiz club15, and our position is being reoriented. I think it is worth it for the government to say in an open text what the author really means and what he expects, because today we have a lot of doubts. While we as opposition forces have always been constructive here and we would still like to be seen as constructive and not destructive opposition - unfortunately, for today we will at least abstain if we do not vote against, unless, in the answers, the government party somehow convinces us to be right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u334	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u335	Thank you very much. However, Minister, these amendments are from the Ministry. Although you have taken over the host Member, it is clear that they have come from the Ministry. In this respect, I would ask for these amendments to be presented on how the competitiveness of the economy and entrepreneurship will be affected. How will they affect the regulatory burden? How will they affect the labour market? How will investment processes in the telecommunications network development sector affect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u336	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Sebastian Gwałk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, it is in our view that the corrective amendments are mostly in our view. To one extent they concern changes in the decision-making of measures, they are removed from the law on the one hand, but there are nevertheless EU measures falling within this scope, so here it is as if there are no too many changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u338	Thank you, Minister. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Kaleta, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u339	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Maybe a little bit, 'cause I don't think he's a creature to sweep anything under the rug here, to get in the back door, 'cause that's what you're suggesting here. It seems to me that it is also a matter of course that it is possible to amend this law, to introduce it at such a rate, if there is no unnecessary legislative procedure, where it is not necessarily necessary. After all, you know very well that these amendments from the Minister of Digitization do not make anything big. I'm surprised you're raising the idea that there's some kind of swing here, that it's doing something out of place, that there's some harsh, unnecessary words coming up again. This is unnecessary, because these are purely ordering issues, as it were, in order to avoid a wider legislative process that is not needed at this time. He's clearly expendable. This is the right action by the Minister not to cause unnecessary bureaucracy. And here I am surprised, first of all, to my colleagues at the Kukiz club15, that they raise it, because it really should not cause you any concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u340	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 minutes 04 hours 17 min 11]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws (print No 991). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill submitted for amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws responds to requests made for a long time by capital market participants in Poland, as well as the national supervisory authority of this market. The project introduces three fundamental changes to the functioning of the capital market in Poland. Firstly, it is the abolition of the division of the regulated market into the stock market and the OTC market and the inclusion of these two types of market in the same concept of the regulated market. In recent years, the changes in the rules have actually brought about an end to the differences in the functioning of the stock market and the over-the-counter market. Currently, the OTC market as regards the rights and obligations of issuers, including in particular information obligations, reporting or categories of entities that may be members of those markets, as well as transactions that may be concluded in those markets, is no different from the stock market that is not officially quoted. Thus, by abolishing the division of the regulated market into the stock market and the OTC market, the formalistic non-justifiable legal division of the market will be eliminated both at the level of European law and in other Member States. Secondly, this is the introduction of a derivatives account institution. The Act of 5 December 2014 amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws abolished the requirement to register securities admitted to organised trading in the securities deposit system. However, this has led to a regulatory gap in the recording of derivatives, which makes it difficult for the Financial Supervision Commission to have access to information on all admitted to trading of organised derivatives and the activities of individual investors in the trading of those financial instruments. The proposed new derivative account institution closes this legal gap. Thirdly, it is a change of the authority issuing the authorisation to conduct a regulated market from the Minister of Development and Finance to the Financial Supervision Commission. Pursuant to the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments currently in force, the operation of the stock exchange shall be authorised by the Minister responsible for Financial Institutions at the request of the person concerned, as assessed by the Commission for Financial Supervision. This solution makes it possible, as a general rule, to carry out double operations and, consequently, to unduly extend the process of recognising an application for authorisation to hold a stock exchange. The solution proposed by this draft law means shortening the licensing process in Poland of stock exchanges and focusing matters related to the supervision of the capital market in one institution. The bill submitted to the High House was the subject of extensive consultation with the capital market environment. It was positively assessed by the supervisory authority, the Commission for Financial Supervision. High Izbo, I request the support of the bill submitted. On behalf of the government, I would like to express my conviction that its adoption will contribute to improving the functioning of the capital market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u342	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice intends to support the bill that the Minister has just discussed. The law is primarily of a sequencing nature. In its sense, in its function, it is intended to sort out a state that exists in reality and which is not reflected in a number of legal acts, not only in order as such, but also in order to enable a better functioning of the capital market in Poland, it is also intended to ensure better registration and thus also inspection, supervision and control. These words are not most, they are best associated, but the fact is that just now, in his speech, the Minister was very clear about this element. The rapid development of the capital market, the stock market and new financial products has led to the fact that the legal situation, as I mentioned in the Act itself, requires a very diligent leaning on this project by the Public Finance Commission. We also hope - and maybe it is also positive - that this bill of reconciliation will bring together all the members of the clubs, because there are no elements here, at least in such a conviction I say these words which could cause great emotions and what has already become daily bread. That's by the way. After our first reading, after reviewing this law, which, together with its annexes, covers more than 200 pages, I think that in the course of the work, the Public Finance Commission will deal with this task, and these factors, those elements which differentiated the OTC market and the stock market, will be brought to - I do not know whether the word "unity" can be used - first of all this compatibility, compatibility: all elements will be complementary, complementary and will not exist in the same world in different editions. That's what order requires. We don't charge politically here either. I think that rapid changes, the need for the law to keep up with reality, what is happening in the field of finance or the economy, this is understandable, and this is also one of Parliament's functions. And it was very good that such a draft law during this period of intense work on the budget and other matters were found. To sum up, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be involved in the work on this project. We support him practically in all its lengths. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u344	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern. [[Where is he? Is life ahead of you too?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u345	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a position regarding a government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, print No. 991. The amendment provides for three fundamental changes. The first concerns the abolition of the division of the regulated market into the stock market and over-the-counter market. The current distribution of the regulated market was based on the assumption that the OTC market, due to greater formal freedom and lower requirements for companies wishing to issue their securities, would be intended for small and medium-sized enterprises. However, the unification of the rules in subsequent years has caused clear differences between the two types of regulated market to be blurred. So closing deadlines: the stock market and the OTC market are an idea that we can support. The proposed changes are also a step towards adapting the Polish law to EU rules, which do not provide in the commonly functioning nomenclature for the concept of the OTC market. Another proposed amendment is the introduction of rules on the institution's derivatives account. The Financial Supervision Commission will be granted new powers and will be able to request information on investments in Poland by non-business entities in Poland which are party to stock exchange transactions and are not required to record transactions on derivatives on any accounts. We will still be asking questions during the meeting of the finance committee about this issue. The third change envisaged by the project's authors is the change of the authority issuing the authorisation to operate the regulated market. So far it has been the Minister of Finance, the novel deprives him of this right, while imposing an obligation on the Commission for Financial Supervision. If this makes it possible to shorten the licensing process for stock exchanges in Poland, and thus improve the functioning of the financial instruments exchange sector, the Modern Club recommends the project for further work and requests that it be transferred to the Public Finance Commission, of course with this one condition in the matter we will be asking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u346	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u347	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I will present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, print No. 991. The draft law, which was very extensive in its content, also spoke by Mr Cymanski, including the draft implementing regulations, was placed on the agenda of the current session of the Sejm yesterday. The entire project material has over 200 pages. Putting the draft on the agenda to hold a debate without allowing for an in-depth reading of the document proposed by the new law on the subject of a very important, important issue is ignoring and ignoring the High House. The government doesn't care about creating a good law. I note this with great regret, because, as it appears from the documents submitted, the project has been prepared for several years, has been subject to consultation and agreement, which rarely happens in this House with new projects, so it has been developed in a way that is noticeable and emphasized. Sometimes I have the impression that you're capable of ruining everything you touch. After all, it was only possible to plan this draft a little earlier on the agenda. Today, looking at the hall, I think, because not all clubs have prepared their positions, that this also indicates an unjustified haste, because they have not even given time to prepare for the debate. From a very cursory and general, because it was the only time I had to learn the content of the project, it follows that the aim of the Act is to abolish the division of the regulated market into the stock market and the OTC market, and to include the two types of the market in question with the same concept, i.e. the concept of the regulated market. The division into the stock market and over-the-counter has made it appear that the over-the-counter market was a less formal market. and with lower requirements for issuers. In fact, however, following numerous changes to the rules so far, this has been significantly blurred and the differences in the functioning of the two types of regulated market are small. The current differences are limited in principle to three cases: firstly, another entity issuing the market authorisation - the Minister of Finance allows the stock market and the Financial Supervision Commission allows the OTC market - secondly, other equity values: in stock exchange companies it is the amount of PLN 10 million and in over-the-counter companies 5 million PLN, and thirdly, another legal basis for the transmission of current and periodic information by issuers of securities. The proposed solution is the concept of a single regulated market, the introduction of rules on derivatives account institutions and the establishment that only the Financial Supervision Commission will be the authority issuing the authorisation to operate the regulated market. According to the designers, the law will help to reduce the number of procedures and the number of documents, to operate a regulated market, to operate a single common procedure, and to reduce the authorisation process. The project, as I say, after a cursory, very general assessment, seems right, but this short period to present your position today is really a little unseriously established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u348	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, the Free and Solidarni Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. Financial instruments are an area where many ambiguity has grown in recent years. As a result of the imperfections of many solutions, financial instruments have often failed to fulfil their role. They did not contribute sufficiently to the development of Poland and to the well-being of its citizens. They have often been a source of abuse. The Free and Solidarnia Circle carefully analyses all activities affecting our country's finances. For today we often face a legitimate question: Did the Third Republic in 1989 begin by rebuilding what remained after the time of the Polish People's Republic, or did the Third Republic begin first of all by looting what remained after the Polish People's Republic? During the period of systemic transformation we had also legal solutions which did not serve Poland, but served only a very narrow group of Polish citizens. And it is such a group for which Poland has never been any common good, but only the object of cynical exploitation by one, that I will use a word that has rightly made a career, closed and in any unreasonable sense better caste. The Free and Solidarnia Circle supports any action which, although to a minimum, brings our homeland closer to the goal of Poland's Solidarny Republic. We want solidarity Poland, not caste Poland, shamelessly built by caste of better criminals or caste of better ones, which some ladies and some gentlemen consider to be. We Poles have been practically deprived of financial security. Capitalism in our country has been set up to be predatory, not counting with people, without rules. To keep wages low and prices as high as in the West. So there's no social housing and no social assistance. In order for the benefits, pensions and pensions to be low. This bill restores normality. In the opinion of the Free and Solidarnia wheels, this law serves Poland and its citizens well. This law separates Poland from the previous standard of caste Poland and brings us closer to solidarity Poland. Leading Poland towards the construction of solidarity Poland will always have the support of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u350	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, we read that according to the article. 15 of the Act of 29 July 2005 on Trading in Financial Instruments The regulated market in the territory of the Republic of Poland includes the stock market and the OTC market. Over-the-counter market of a less formal nature imposed minor requirements on issuers seeking admission to trading of their securities. The programme was intended to be a market for small and medium-sized companies with growth potential which did not meet the requirements of the stock market. In fact, today the OTC market is no different from the stock market, which is not an official listing market. There are no differences between the stock market and the OTC market in the rights and obligations of issuers, including in particular information obligations, pre- and post-trade reporting or categories of entities that may be members of those markets, as well as in transactions that may be included in those markets. Thus, in the current legal situation, the most important differences between the sub-types of the regulated market are: - another entity issuing a market authorisation (Minister of Finance for the listed market, Financial Supervision Commission for the OTC market), - other capital requirements of the stock exchange companies and the OTC market (PLN 10 million and PLN 5 million respectively), - another legal basis defining the type, scope and form of current and periodic information published by issuers of securities. In summary, the differences between the stock market and the OTC market are not significant enough to justify the distinction between two sub-types of the regulated market. It is therefore reasonable to abolish the division of the regulated market into the stock market and over-the-counter market. The changes made over the last several years to the rules on the functioning of the national capital market, notably the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, have led to a levelling of differences in the functioning of the stock market and over-the-counter market. The provisions of Union law also do not provide for such a distinction between operators of regulated markets, in particular Directive 2004/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on markets in financial instruments amending Council Directives 85/611/EEC and 93/6/EEC and Directive 2000/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directive 93/22/EEC. Urz. EU L 145, 30.04.2004, p. 1, go on: MiFID). Furthermore, the definition of a regulated market as an OTC market may mislead about his character. The term "over-the-counter market' is not reflected in the commonly functioning nomenclature resulting from European rules transposed by Member States into national legal systems. The aim of the project, as the applicants present, is to abolish the division of the regulated market into the stock market and over-the-counter market. As a result, these two types of market would be covered by the concept of a regulated market. Therefore, the project assumes that the company currently operating the stock exchange market, i.e. the Warsaw Stock Exchange SA, and the company operating the over-the-counter market, i.e. BondSpot SA, will become companies operating two separate regulated markets. The draft provides for appropriate transitional periods for the adjustment of both companies' activities. As a result of the proposed amendments, the provisions of other laws will be adapted to the amended provisions of the Act, the Accounting Act, the Act on toll motorways and the National Road Fund, the Act on Energy Law, the Act on Commercial Companies Code, the Act on Trade Exchanges, the Act on Insolvency, the Act on Investment Funds and the Management of Alternative Investment Funds, the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading, and on Public Companies, as well as the Act on Supervision of the Financial Market. In view of the need to replace the terms "markets" and "markets" by means of "markets" it will also be necessary to amend a number of implementing acts. In addition, the project envisages the introduction of rules on the institution's derivatives account. As provided for by the Act of 5 December 2014 amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws, the abolition of the requirement to register securities of derivatives admitted to organised trading results in the need to regulate the rules for recording derivatives in order to ensure the safety of trading and effective supervision of the forward market. Regulation introduced e.g. define the entities authorised to keep records of derivatives, specify the scope of the authorisations to keep such records while identifying the recording facilities on which derivatives are to be recorded, and specify the rules for determining the holders of the derivative, the rules for transferring rights and obligations from certain derivatives. The consequences of the proposed changes are also the need to equip the supervisory authority with effective supervisory tools to ensure effective supervision of the safety and regularity of secondary trading of financial instruments, in particular to determine the scope of investments made by entities not operating in the territory of the Republic of Poland, which are parties to stock exchange transactions and which are not obliged under the regulations in force in Poland to record transactions concluded on derivatives on any accounts. To this end, the draft law provides for the power of the Financial Supervision Commission to apply directly to these entities for relevant information. At the same time, it is necessary to stress that the changes envisaged in this respect do not affect the scope of supervision of investment firms at European level in the field of capital market law. Therefore, supervision of the entities referred to in Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2 of the Act, i.e. investment firms that are not members of the stock exchange which are not engaged in brokerage activities in the territory of the Republic of Poland, will continue to be held by the competent supervisory authorities of the State of its head office. The consequences of the proposed changes will also be to adapt the provisions of other laws, i.e. the Settlement Finality Act in payment and securities settlement systems and the rules for the supervision of these systems and bankruptcy laws. In addition, it will be necessary, in particular, to amend the Finance Minister's Regulation of 24 September 2012 on the modalities and conditions of conduct of investment firms, banks referred to in Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, and Trust Banks, as well as the issuing by the Minister responsible for Financial Institutions of a new Regulation pursuant to Article. Article 94 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 5 of the Act. The draft law also provides for a change of the authority issuing the permit to hold the stock exchange. According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 and 2 of the current Act on Trading in Financial Instruments requires authorisation by the Minister responsible for Financial Institutions at the request of the person concerned, as assessed by the Financial Supervision Commission. The application shall be submitted through the Financial Supervision Commission, which shall assess the application formally (where formal deficiencies are found, the committee shall decide to leave the application without recognition) and shall then give its opinion. Only after these operations have been carried out, shall the request, together with the opinion, be forwarded by the committee of the Minister responsible for financial institutions. Such a solution makes it possible to double the same activities and, as a consequence, extend the time limit for the recognition of an application for authorisation to hold a stock exchange. Therefore, the essential purpose of changing the authority issuing the authorisation to conduct a regulated market from the Minister responsible for Financial Institutions to the Financial Supervision Commission is to shorten the licensing process in Poland of the exchanges of financial instruments and to focus matters related to the supervision of the capital market in full in the statutoryly appointed body, the Financial Supervision Commission. The Commission for Financial Supervision would at the same time be the competent authority for the withdrawal of such authorisation and for the prohibition of a regulated market. The project assumes that the existing provisions will apply to proceedings initiated and not completed. In that case, the authorisation decision will be adopted on the basis of the amended wording as a new Article. 25 of the Act, however, by the same body before which proceedings were initiated, which should ensure the smooth conduct of the proceedings initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the proposed law. The draft law is not contrary to European Union law. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requests that the project be submitted for further work within the Committee on Public Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u352	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws contained in print No 991, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I propose on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the committee to submit a report on the draft by 29 November 2016. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's Draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, as well as the Statute of that Bank, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990 (prints Nos 875 and 947). I ask Mr Jerzy Gosievski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u353	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have the honour to present a report in print No 947 on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Protocol amending the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, as well as the Statute of that Bank, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990, print No 875. On 18 December 1990, the Council of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation decided to replace ECU's transfer rubles in the accounts of the Bank, i.e. by the European Currency Unit. It also decided to change the name of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles, to set up the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, to change the objectives of the bank's activities, to decide by the bank's board and to withdraw from that bank the Germans who were members of the former GDR. During the meeting of the Public Finance Commission on 20 October 2016, we examined the draft law. During the discussion, ladies and gentlemen raised doubts about this law, mainly as regards the appropriateness of continuing to participate in this bank. The main questions of your Members are: Why don't we come from this bank like Hungary and Germany? Who represents us in this bank? Do we have a representative on the board of directors? Who's that? The answer was given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Piotr Nowak, who said that there was no exit procedure. Hungary and Germany agreed to go to the so-called. Zero, which means they've generally given up the capital they've put into the bank. The exit procedure is currently being prepared. If it is established that the country that leaves this bank will be able to recover its capital, then it will be justified. At any moment, we can say thank you, we're leaving. But we get zero of it because there's no procedure, just like in the case of the Germans and Hungarians. Over the past 2 years, we have received dividends of 1 million euro and 2,1 millions of euros, so this is generally what we're getting back to. Secondly, the situation is that there are still Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Russia, Mongolia and Vietnam in this bank. So it is a potential platform for building relations between these countries, a business platform for developing additional channels of development of Polish companies. Mr Piotr Nowak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, informed in response to questions that we have one person on the management board of this bank, that is a person nominated by the NBP. There are three people on the bank's board from the Ministry of Finance and the NBP. The person on the board is Krzysztof Majczuk, he is a member of the board and he operates there permanently. As for the council, the Ministry of Finance is the Undersecretary of State Piotr Nowak, from the National Bank of Poland, President Paweł Sanecki, and Mr Andrzej Ciopiński, Deputy Director of the Department in the Ministry of Finance. Finally, the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs jointly supported the proposed proposal. Therefore, on behalf of these committees, I request that the High Sejm, in accordance with the report of those committees in print No 947, adopt a draft law on ratification of the Protocol amending the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the establishment of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and the Statute of that Bank, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990. The original project is in the Seym printing no. 875. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u354	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club as regards the Government's draft law on ratification of the Protocol amending the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977, and the Statute of that Bank, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990, print No 875. Ladies and gentlemen! Poland is one of the founding countries of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. The amendments introduced by the Protocols are based on decisions taken at the 74th extraordinary Council meeting and concern inter alia. the replacement by ECU of transferor rubles in the accounts of the bank as of 1 January 1991 The bank's share capital of ECU 400 million was also established, and it was determined the new shares of individual countries following Germany's withdrawal from the bank, the name of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles has been changed and the new objectives of the bank's activities have been defined, and new rules have been introduced for the adoption of resolutions by the Bank's Board. This Protocol has been applied on a provisional basis since 1 January 1991. Ladies and gentlemen! The binding of the Republic of Poland with these protocols requires ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland with the prior consent expressed in the Act. Of course, a different issue is Poland's belonging to the bank itself, and at the time of determining the rules of exit from this bank, the government and parliament will certainly take the appropriate decisions. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government bill from print 875. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u356	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Szydłowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of my Civic Platform Club on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Protocol amending the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, as well as the Statute of that Bank, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990. The purpose of the proposed amendment is to organise the legal status of these documents in the Polish legal system, and thus the 1963 Agreement entitled the Establishment and Activity of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. I would like to remind you that Poland is one of the eight founding countries of this bank. As a result of the provisions adopted in the protocols, the functioning of the bank has been adapted to political and economic changes and the provisions in its statutory documents are adapted to the current state of affairs. As a result of the amendments to the Protocol of 25 November 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of 25 November 2014 laying down detailed rules for the application of Poland will increase its capital from 15,5 million to 22,45 million euros. The adoption of these protocols does not have direct social, economic and financial implications for the state budget from the point of view of Poland. Therefore, my club agrees with the proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u358	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's bill of ratification of the Protocol amending the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, and the Statute of that Bank, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! This report of the Marshals of the Sejm was sent to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Following a debate, following discussions at first reading and considering all the comments, these committees request that this report be adopted. I already mention that we as the Kukiz Posel Club15 will also vote in favour of this report. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, these changes, these ratifications do not bring new financial commitments, their carrying out will not affect banking life, nor will there be any other restrictions that could increase bureaucracy, increase our country's commitments. So that, as I have already said, we, as a parliamentary club, are in favour of this report and will vote in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u360	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's bill on ratification of the Protocol on the amendment of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, print Nos 875 and 947. Today's government bill proposals - I will talk about two projects, because the next one - were the subject of work by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 20 October. Both print projects 875 and 876, after consideration at the committee meeting, were submitted to the High House for adoption without amendments. As regards the draft Print Act No 875, it concerns the consent of the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify the Protocol on the amendment of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, as amended by the successive protocols. The Bank in question was set up in 1964 at the same time as the introduction by the Member States of the RWPG of the transfer pricing system in transfer rubles. Poland is one of the eight founding countries of the International Bank for Economic Co-operation, and the basic statutory tasks of the bank created in 1964 included carrying out transfer rubles between Member States and granting short and medium-term loans to support the balance of payments of Member States. The share capital of the bank after the transfer of EUR 400 million from the transfer ruble in 1991, including the capital paid for 2015, represented almost EUR 7 million, of which Poland accounted for EUR 22 450 000. Euros. The Bank's balance sheet at the end of 2015 amounted to 349 million and the Bank's profit in 2015 amounted to 3 million euro. Currently, the bank is developing its lending on a wider scale. It records a moderate profit, pays dividends, of which Poland received in 2013 an amount of 1200 thousand. the euro, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and in 2014 - 2,400 thousand Euros. The Polish People's Party welcomes the project, supports the ratification of the protocol and the operation of the bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u362	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Gaina, near Free and Solidarnia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol, drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990, on the revision of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, print No 875. The draft presented to the Sejm concerns a change in the name of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and the setting up of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation and changes in certain objectives of the bank's activities and decision-making issues by the bank's board, including the withdrawal from that bank. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Poland is one of the eight founding countries of the bank, which are currently members of Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Russia, Romania, Slovakia and Vietnam. This creates a potential platform for cooperation between these countries, but at the same time raises the question whether Poland is coming up with concrete initiatives of projects that would allow to develop favourable economic cooperation between such politically different countries. The next question that arises is whether the government has an idea of cooperation in the eastern direction at all, or whether it is a supporter of maintaining sanctions which are counterproductive for the development of economic cooperation and which have little change in the political situation in the East. This question becomes relevant in the context of the very well received last visit of Deputy Prime Minister Moravian in Belarus. The Free and Solidarnia Circle believes that a pragmatic policy should be pursued primarily in the eastern direction, which means that the priority should be measures that bring tangible benefits to Polish entrepreneurs and Polish citizens both in terms of current social and economic activity as well as in the long-term horizon. As we learn, the current benefits are the payment of dividends to Poland, which was 1.2 and 2.4 million euros in 2013 and 2014 respectively. On the other hand, it is known that there are serious controversy over the future of the bank. Poland's plan to liquidate the bank has not been accepted by most Member States, and the bank has adopted a strategy to resume and develop its business for the years 2016-2020. The bank also defrosted the loan. We are counting on the fact that a more offensive bank strategy will be developed and, if this proves impossible, that the bank will be wound up as a relic of the past era. With regard to the draft law on ratification of the Protocol drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2017/1499. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the proposed project, recognising that it is aimed at formal regulation of cases lasting for more than 20 years of omissions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u364	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are considering the Government's bill of ratification of the Protocol amending the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and the creation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, as well as the Statute of that Bank, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990. In fact, the International Bank of Economic Cooperation is an organization which is a relic of the Council of Mutual Economic Assistance. This bank, based in Moscow, was established in 1964 at the same time as the introduction by the Member States of the RPG of the transfer rubles settlement system, under the Intergovernmental Agreement of 22 October 1963 and Poland is one of the six founding countries. The adoption of the protocols is purely technical and does not have negative financial implications for the budget and does not have economic and social consequences. First of all, it concerns the agreement to ratify the Protocol, which is the result of a decision taken by the Council of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation concerning inter alia. the replacement of euro transferor rubles in the bank's accounts, changes in selected business objectives, decision-making rules by the bank's board, including the execution of foreign currency credit operations. Here, it is worth taking into account the fact that the German bank will have a membership after the former GDR and that the adoption of this proposed law will not have direct economic, financial and social consequences. It's modern in favour of the ratification of the protocol. I would also like to add that at this point we can ask ourselves whether there is any point in us functioning in this arrangement. However, in fact, apart from the fact that Hungary and Germany agreed to leave without loss, but losing their share, I think that the purpose of ordering this protocol is primarily to introduce an exit procedure. I think that when this procedure starts to work, it will be a signal for us to ask ourselves about the purpose of functioning. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u366	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Ms Agata Borowiec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u367	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur: Can we at the moment determine the expected date for Poland's departure from the International Bank of Economic Cooperation and would this move be profitable for us, for our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u368	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a lot of talk at the committee meeting about whether Poland should stay in or leave the bank. Of course, today there are no procedures for leaving this bank, but since we are going to ratify this protocol, I would like to ask: Which Member States of the bank have already ratified the provisions of the protocol? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u370	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Gosievski, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u371	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The questions asked by Mrs Elżbieta Stępień and Mrs Agata Borowiec were to a large extent the subject of answers and discussions during the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. I would like to say here that there are doubts about participation in this relic of the past epoch, but it is in the interest of Poland at the moment that we should remain, ratify and possibly think about leaving this International Bank for Economic Cooperation. At the moment, I would like to supplement - I think it was in one of the speeches - that Poland received a dividend of 1.2 million in 2013 and 2.4 million in 2014, and therefore there are no losses here. Mr Zbigniew Biernat asked which Member States carried out the ratification procedure. In general, none of the parties has completed the internal procedures necessary for its entry into force. The 1990 Protocol is applied by all members of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation on a provisional basis and thus has equivalent effects under international law. I think I answered all the questions. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u372	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's Draft Act on ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Establishment and Activity of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, and the Statute of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, drawn up at Warsaw on 25 November 2014 (prints Nos 876 and 948). I ask Mr Jerzy Gosievski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u373	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Establishment and Activity of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, and the Statute of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, drawn up in Warsaw on 25 November 2014. The original government draft of this law is included in print No 876. During the meeting of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation in Warsaw on 25 November 2014, a protocol was drawn up to clarify technical issues related to the further functioning, the shares of the Member States and the currency of the bank's balance sheet and to introduce the euro bank into the statutes instead of the ECU. The protocol was signed on 30 March 2015 by Katarzyna Pełczyńska-Nałęcz, Polish Ambassador to Moscow. The completion of internal procedures by the Republic of Poland will allow to introduce changes expressed in the above protocols into the Polish legal order. The adoption of the protocols signed by Poland is a formal condition for their entry into force. As a result of the provisions adopted in the protocols, the functioning of the bank has been adapted to political and economic changes, and the provisions in its statutory documents are adapted to the current state of affairs in the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. As a result of the amendments contained in the Protocol of 25 November 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Poland will increase its capital from 15,5 million to 22,45 million euros. The proportional increase was linked to the leaving of the bank by the Hungarian Republic and the Republic of Cuba and intended for a proportionate increase in the paid-up share of the capital of the Member States of the unseparated profit from past years. For several years, attempts have been made to connect the International Bank for Economic Cooperation with a twin investment bank, also based in Moscow. The liquidation of the bank was also considered, as proposed by the Russian party, which stated in June 2015 that the bank should continue its activities. Most of the votes, against Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, were not eliminated. A strategy for business renewal and development has been adopted and the credit action has been thawed. During the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 20 October 2016, we discussed the draft law. During the discussion, ladies and gentlemen raised doubts about this law, mainly as regards the appropriateness of continuing to participate in this bank. During the work of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Public Finances, the discussion at the same time concerned both the protocols contained in the draft print laws 875 and 876. I set out the course of the discussion in the report for prints 947 and 875. In addition to explanations by Mr Piotr Nowak, Under-Secretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Ms Renata Szczech, Under-Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the scope of this draft Print Act No. 876 supplemented the information that the adoption of protocols does not cause negative financial consequences for the budget. The minutes only confirm in addition the amount of the capital shares of the Republic of Poland in the bank resulting from separate decisions of the Bank Board. As a result of the amendments to the 2014 Protocol, the Council decided to amend the 2014 Protocol. Poland will increase its paid-up capital, as I mentioned earlier, to EUR 22.45 million. This is the figure for 2014, which is the consequence of Hungary's and Cuba's leaving the bank and the allocation of unseparated profits over the years to a proportionate increase in the paid-up part of the capital. As a result of the discussion, the two committees supported the draft law presented. I therefore request that the High Sejm, in accordance with the committee's report in print No 948, adopt the draft Act on ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the establishment and operation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, and the Statute of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, drawn up in Warsaw on 25 November 2014 in accordance with the original print No 876. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u374	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Establishment and Activity of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, and the Statute of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, drawn up at Warsaw on 25 November 2014, print No 876. Ladies and gentlemen! The Protocol sets out the following: new shares of the bank's Member States. As a result of the amendments contained in the Protocol of 25 November 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Poland increased its paid-up capital to EUR 22.45 million. The proportional increase was linked to the leaving of the bank by the Hungarian Republic and the Republic of Cuba. It was introduced into the Bank's Statute as an existing euro currency and set the bank's share capital at EUR 400 million. The bank's credit card has been re-launched. The completion of internal procedures by the Republic of Poland will allow for changes expressed in protocols to the Polish legal order. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the Government's draft Print Act No. 876. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u376	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Szydłowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the Government's bill of ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Establishment and Activity of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, and the Statute of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, drawn up at Warsaw on 25 November 2014. This draft law was subject to work in the Committee on Public Finances. No amendments were tabled to the proposed government submission. The purpose of the document is to organize the legal status of the Constitution and adapt to the Polish legal system of the 1963 agreement entitled the Agreement on the establishment and operation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation with subsequent amending protocols. The records will allow the bank to operate in line with the political and economic changes that have taken place and the current legal situation. The adoption of protocols does not have social, economic and financial implications for Poland for the state budget. My club shares the government's position on ratification and the changes tabled. Thank you very much, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u378	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Establishment and Activity of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, and the Statute of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, drawn up at Warsaw on 25 November 2014. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! This bill was addressed to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs - that is where the first reading took place. At first reading, no amendments were made to this law in the debate and discussion. The committees are asking for the bill to be adopted in the form submitted to us by the government. We see that there are so many amendments, so many additional protocols that have come in all these years, through all these changes, we see that there is a need and purpose to regulate all these issues in order to bind the Republic of Poland to the changes expressed in all these protocols. Therefore, in the law in Article. 1 agrees to be ratified by the President of the Republic of Poland. We, too, as the Kukiz Posel Club15 will be behind this bill. This law does not give further restrictions, regulates the legal status of all protocols. The adoption of this law will have a positive legal effect, so that we see here the pros and we will vote - as a Kukiz club15 - in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u380	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Club regarding the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Establishment and Activity of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, and the Statute of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, drawn up at Warsaw on 25 November 2014, print Nos 876 and 948. Prints 876 and 948 concern the agreement to ratify the Protocol, which introduces technical amendments related to the operation of the bank, concerning: ordering technical issues with regard to the occurrence of the Republic of Cuba from MBWG and earlier leaving the Bank by Hungary, introducing the euro bank into its statutes instead of ECU, reflecting changes in certain Member States or their names - replacing the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics by the Russian, Czech and Slovak Federation by the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, and changing the name of the Mongolian People's Republic to Mongolia - and the shares of the Member States and the currency of the bank's balance sheet. No amendments or comments on the nature of the amendments were made during the work of the Sejm committees. The protocol further confirms the amount of the capital shares of the Republic of Poland in the bank resulting from a separate decision of the bank's board... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, would you mind? Because it distracts me. As a result of the amendments to the 2014 Protocol, the Council decided to amend the 2014 Protocol. Poland increased its paid-up capital from EUR 15.5 million to EUR 22 450 thousand. Euros. The change is caused by Hungary's leaving the bank as well as Cuba. These measures, which were their share, were allocated to the chapter, and the profit from past years was allocated, in proportion to the part of the paid-up capital. Over the past few years, attempts have been made to connect MBWG with the twin International Investment Bank based in Moscow, which have finally been abandoned because a compromise has not been found. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The adoption of these protocols does not have direct social, economic and financial implications for the state budget from the point of view of Poland, and therefore modern is in favour of the government draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u382	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present my position on the Government's bill of ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Establishment and Activity of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, with all amendments, prints Nos 876 and 948. Continuing with the theme of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, it must be said that this is another project which concerns the consent of the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify the Protocol amending the Agreement on the establishment and operation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. On 18 December 1990, the Bank Council decided to replace ECU's transfer rubles in the bank's accounts, change the name of the multilateral settlement agreement, change some of the bank's business objectives and decision-making issues with Germany's withdrawal from the bank. On 25 November 2014, a protocol was drawn up on the arrangement of technical issues related to the withdrawal from Cuba and Hungary, the introduction into the Statute of the euro Bank in place of ECU, changes to certain Member States or their names, and the participation of Member States. As a result of these changes, Poland increased its capital paid out from EUR 15.5 million to EUR 22.45 million, which resulted from a proportional split between the countries that occurred from the bank. The Polish People's Party welcomes the functioning of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation and fully supports the ratification of the protocols. According to a study of the public opinion, as much as 60% Poles surveyed believe that we should conduct business and trade with the Russian Federation. Given also the changing socio-economic situation in the world, the Polish People's Party considers that there is a need to resume economic cooperation with the Russian Federation to a large extent, and a functioning international bank based in Moscow will certainly be an institution to help develop economic relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u384	Thank you very much. Mr. Ireneus has the voice of profit, free and solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft Act on ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Establishment and Activity of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, drawn up in Warsaw on 25 November 2014, print No 876. The draft presented to the Sejm concerns changes in the protocols of 18 December 1990 and 25 November 2014, which relate mainly to the ordering of a number of technical issues and the attempt to set new objectives of the bank's activities. As far as technical issues are concerned, they must be arranged in such a way that the bank can operate efficiently. On the other hand, with regard to the bank's strategy, we maintain our sceptical position on the draft ratification of the protocol drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990, printing 875. In the context of creating a new economic policy on the Eastern direction, as expressed by the recent visit of Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in Belarus, it should be considered whether there will be new tasks under this policy in which the International Bank of Economic Cooperation could participate. This kind of action in the eastern direction is part of political pragmatism and brings tangible benefits to Polish entrepreneurs and Polish citizens both now and in the long term. We are therefore looking for flexibility and dexterity in the formulation of the new strategy of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation. At the same time, attention should be paid to the significant reorientation of the policy towards our western neighbours, who are increasingly publicising the view that they do not intend to bear further costs of the conflict in Ukraine. This creates such a geopolitical situation that Poland has a very small margin for finding favorable solutions for itself. Perhaps the bank in question creates opportunities for cooperation in the eastern directions. This should be checked through pilot projects. With regard to the draft Act on ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Establishment and Activity of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, drawn up in Warsaw on 25 November 2014, the Free and Solidarni Circle supports the submitted project, recognising that it is intended to formally regulate the current business of the bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u386	Thank you very much. It's time for questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Ms Agata Borowiec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u387	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. How was the signing of the Protocol of 25 November 2014, which is being ratified? Is Poland obliged to ratify this protocol? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u388	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Gosievski, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u389	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The honourable Mrs Agata Borowiec has put forward a very interesting question: How did the protocol of 25 November 2014 come to be signed and is Poland obliged to ratify this protocol? I kindly explain that the case started much earlier, because this concerns the creation of an international bank, while the history of the signing of the protocol starts in principle on 5 December 2014, because the protocol was drawn up much earlier, maybe not so much, on 25 November 2014 in Moscow, but on 5 December 2014, the Council of Ministers approved the signing of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the establishment and operation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation. Therefore, on 30 March 2015, a protocol drawn up several months earlier, i.e. on 25 November 2014 in Moscow, was signed. On 18 August 2016, the Minister of Finance submitted a request for ratification of those protocols. And the second question was whether Poland is obliged to ratify these protocols. There is no such compulsion, but it is beneficial for us, we must go inside, create a possible procedure to get out of this so that we do not suffer losses. Today it would be advisable, it is in the interest of Poland to ratify this protocol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u390	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 30 hours 18 min 35]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the governmental draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers (prints Nos 935 and 1010). I ask Mr Robert Telus to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u391	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the governmental draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers, print No. 935. The project concerns, among others: the definition of the concept of agricultural retail trade, the designation of the authorities competent to supervise the safety of food produced in the framework of agricultural retail trade, the delegation of powers to the bodies of the Trade Quality Inspections of Agricultural and Food Articles to supervise the commercial quality of food in the agricultural retail trade, the granting of the Minister responsible for Agriculture in agreement with the Minister competent for Health of competence to determine, by means of a regulation, limits on the size of the activities carried out by one operator and hygiene requirements for operators in the agricultural retail trade. This law is long awaited by farmers, for many years, above all by farmers producing healthy, organic food, farmers who sell at their farm. I think this law goes against, that's a mileage step, that's reform, a strong reform when it comes to selling processed products. This law shortens what Law and Justice were talking about in the election campaign, in their programs that they have prepared. The point was to cut the road from the field to the table. This is such a first step to make it possible for farmers to sell these processed products on stalls, at home on the farm and also in agrotourism. This is also a problem which was very often noticed in agrotourism. Farmers reported this problem to us because according to Polish law they could not legally sell their processed products, such as cheese or juices, even on their farms where they ran agrotourism. So it's a long-awaited bill. Maybe it's not perfect today, maybe it'll have to be worked out yet, but I think all her shortcomings, if they are, will come out during its lifetime. The project entered the Sejm on 6 October and was intended for first reading at the Sejm meeting. The first reading of the project took place at the 29th meeting of the Sejm on 3 November 2016 and was addressed to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. At the joint meeting of the two committees on 4 November this year, an extraordinary subcommittee was set up to consider this project, which I had the honour of being president. extraordinary subcommittee at its meeting on 10 November this year. She considered the draft and produced a report which I am presenting to the Sejm. I'm asking you to pass the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u392	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are slowly finalizing the bill for which Polish farmers have been waiting for years. The discussion that has been going on for several years has not actually made some significant progress in terms of the possibility for farmers to sell processed food. Many Polish farmers are jealous of the opportunities offered by their colleagues from Western European countries, because the sale of unprocessed and processed food is one of the important sources of income, especially in smaller farms. The European Union allows this possibility. Regulation No 176 of 2002 which allows processing on farms is all that grows on the farm, all that is grown on the farm, and for many years we have been talking about the need to solve this problem, and we have not been able to solve it. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the government project that is moving towards facilitating sales. I share the opinion of the rapporteur of the committee that, in fact, only when we introduce this law will we be able to assess its effects, its correctness, also how many farmers will be interested in selling their products, how the market will behave, how other players in this market will react, including those who are engaged in professional agri-food processing. This is all ahead of us, which is why this law will probably be amended, revised, improved in the coming years in order to meet the expectations of farmers as much as possible, and at the same time not to destroy the market, not to disrupt this market in relation to those who have often spent considerable resources on starting up a business. In several cases, the Commission has introduced amendments which, in my opinion, improve and improve this government project. I would also like to thank all the Members who are involved in this. First of all, we have established that farmers can do so both on farms and in places designated for sale by legally selling income. We have also introduced an opportunity that exists in many countries, in particular France can be a good example here, creating the so-called. sales groups, i.e. if farmers from a given area sell products in the framework of agricultural retail trade, one of them may sell not only its own, but also the products of those colleagues who also conduct agricultural retail trade. There is much controversy about the tax-free amount, which is what a farmer can sell under the agricultural tax. As long as we do not know what the scope will be, the number of farmers interested in this sale, any amount here may be an empty amount. As far as the tax exemption is concerned, it's $20,000. it doesn't seem excessive, but I would stress that what will be produced over 20,000. zł, is taxed on a 2% flat-rate income tax, which is not a withholding tax either. At the same time, the Minister for Agriculture is required by law to issue a regulation specifying precisely the quantities of food in particular categories that can be sold in the framework of agricultural retail trade. One problem raised by the Government Act is the possibility of selling to operators, for example, under Union law. mass caterers, agrotourism, schools which have their own canteens and other such entities which are entitled to purchase from farmers in other European Union countries and were to be eliminated in Poland. Therefore, on behalf of the club, I propose an amendment which solves this problem, allowing within the quantitative limits which the Minister of Agriculture will define by his regulation, also to sell to these entities. I will make such an amendment to the Marshal's hand. On the other hand, on behalf of the club, I want to declare that this bill, an important bill, will be adopted by us, will be supported. On the other hand, depending on this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what will be the fate of this law and its implementation, then it will have to be possible to reflect on its modification and amendments. I'm making amends. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u394	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, the government project, the print number 935, which is to help us, is to help farmers understand, this is only part of the legislation on food safety, hygiene. Plus, there's an even bigger part about taxes. Let us consider whether the printing that you have presented, namely this law, which is to include references to the possibilities of facilitation in many points of the other legislation, is fulfilling its task. No, it's not. Of course, it fulfills the task of entering in certain provisions of various laws, changes different provisions and creates a really important definition of agricultural retail trade. Does it change anything? It doesn't. Mr President, is it long-awaited? Of course it's long-awaited, because me and you have been working on this bill for the last five years, not actually on the bill, but on these changes. Did it work? Part of it worked, part of it didn't work. Is this a milestone? He's not a mile away because he doesn't do anything. It sounded exactly in the committee, it sounded in the subcommittee, it was said by the social side, which would receive this bill. An opinion that comes to us in texts that comes in e-mails: a legal nightmare that doesn't do anything. There are still two inspections on the farm, still two inspections and a distinction between what is on the farm subject to health care, which is subject to health inspection and what is subject to veterinary inspection. There are still no minimum processing conditions established, still unknown and is legal chaos, which is subject to flat-rate tax or tax exemption recorded, and which is direct sales of raw materials which are not subject to any tax-related legal provisions at all. We still don't know how much or how to pay. Farmers in small farms do not know how much or how much they will pay. They still don't know where or how to report their activities. It is still unclear what requirements they will have - what they should have in the kitchens and where they can process their raw materials. Moreover, the so-called "voivodships" appeared in individual voivodships. Entrepreneurship incubators, where conditions are created, so that the rural housewives' circles can go, squeeze their own juice in these places. Turns out you can't do that. It is not fair to say that the amendment was successful in its entirety. Mr President, there is legal duality at this moment in what we have presented. Firstly, we allow the sale of hygiene laws, we allow the sale to consumers other than the final consumer, while in tax law the final consumer is clearly defined and must not sell. So that's not true. The farmer will not be allowed to sell under this law to a local restaurant, to a friendly agrotourism farm, it will still not be possible to sell it taxally. [[Want to bet?]] If the amendment I do not know, Mr President, because you have made it now, it changes, I congratulate you, but I do not see it. What we're talking about is not allowed. This is a bad way of making law, and this was confirmed by the Member on this speaker. He keeps saying, as does everyone in the committee: let us adopt this law quickly and then we will improve it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the most important House of this country, which creates the law. You can't make a law just like that. You can't say, "Let's just say it's gonna be okay." It won't be, because farmers know exactly that it won't be, because they won't be able to use this bill. There are no hygiene conditions, there is no clear tax law and there are no requirements. If you fail to work this out, this bill will be an absolute nightmare. All the producers who are interested in this are sending us news here that he's a nightmare. Of course, most of the provisions are in order of these laws and are merely a technical arrangement. The main issue has not been resolved, so as Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will be behind this bill, because it is ordering... [[Yeah, it is.]] ...but don't lie to me that he's handling this case. We're against that kind of information because it's not a farmers' sale.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u396	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u397	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers. Looking at the original draft law, me and many of the farmers I talked to, we were very surprised that we could only find the facilitation in the title of the bill. The remaining provisions are a complete denial of clarity, transparency and simplification of rules and conditions for farmers to produce and sell food. I thought that the new government, the new management of the Ministry of Agriculture, would try to avoid the mistakes of the predecessors who prepared a draft law on direct sales to a small, dozens of farmers. There is still a misconception and harmful belief that the law should be for officials, often for officials from the European Union and not for citizens. Once again, the words of Nicholas Reja come to their mouth: The law is like a web. The fart's gonna break, the mushy's gonna get stuck. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the law proposed by the government, which introduces the definition of agricultural retail trade, does not refer to a farmer or a farm. On the other hand, the terms "food business operator', "business operator' and "farm retail' are commonly used. It therefore follows from the Act that the farmer is not the target farmer with his farm, but the trader and his establishment. In this context, it is not surprising that the health requirements of the EU regulations, which are dedicated to food business operators, need to be met. In the case of large, mass-scale production, it is clear that the highest level of food safety and hygiene should be ensured in large processing plants. However, it is necessary to clearly distinguish and separate the requirements that food businesses must fulfil from those which farmers, on the one hand, are limited by the quantitative limits of the food sold and, on the other hand, by a small amount of exemption from the tax which is the limit on the amount free of tax. This sale is probably not going to work on the same scale as the Ministry expects, and it's probably going to operate, as it has so far, in the grey zone. Farmers have been asking for a law that is clear, simple and clear for many years. A law which will clearly and specifically indicate the requirements and conditions to be met in order to be able to produce and sell food from their own farm. Such a bill was submitted by the Kukiz club15 already in January, i.e. more than 10 months ago. The project is based on direct contact between the farmer and the consumer, on their mutual trust, which is what is lacking in the government project. Unfortunately, the government project did not take into account the trust and direct responsibility of the farmer for the food produced as a basic standard. Together with the Act, some of the draft regulations defining, inter alia, are presented. the level of penalties for all types of offences and ways of controlling and monitoring illicit substances. This lacked the most important from the perspective of farmers in the regulation, namely the specific health requirements that food processing rooms will have to meet. Let me remind you: Work on the bill has been under way for at least 9 months and in this long time it has not been possible to submit a draft regulation which is crucial for the whole of the law. It was promised that the Act would take effect from 1 January 2017, i.e. in 1.5 months. But how will that be possible if there are no regulations to say where and how can food be processed? How can we vote for or against a law without the most important rules? In addition, during the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, it turned out that the notification of the Regulation could last up to 18 months, which means a further 1.5 year in suspension. The approach of the Ministry of Agriculture should be regarded as highly irresponsible and disrespectful of thousands of farmers and consumers who have been waiting for a law for years that would actually make it easier for them to act. In order to expand the circle of people interested in this bill, we will make an amendment to the Marshal's hands. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In conclusion, I hope that the future law will aim primarily at the welfare of farmers and consumers, because only such a law will gain the approval of the Kukiz club15. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u398	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u399	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers. The changes in agriculture in the 1990s and the entry into force of European Union legislation in 2004 created a new reality in the food trade. Small operators processing agricultural raw materials have disappeared from the legal market. Of course, processing in farms is still functioning, but in the grey zone. For many years, attempts have been made to resolve this situation, resulting in regulations that enable small - limited - local enterprises to be created, as well as direct sales, from farms, of products processed by non-industrial methods. In practice, despite the demand of consumers for such processed food, this processing branch is not developing at the pace to which market potential would indicate. The reason for this is the legal constraints which are not compatible with the actual market situation of such products. There is still a belief that food from small manufacturers is a cheap alternative, and in practice these products have become quality food and non-cheap food. New forms of distribution have been created, such as co-operatives, local health food and organic food stores. Therefore, in order to develop this part of the agricultural market including food produced in small farms producing traditional and ecological methods, legal changes are necessary. But changes must be thoughtful, adapted to changing situations. It is about changes that would really safeguard consumer rights, but also, more broadly, allow farmers to operate. There is a need to create a development ladder from mini-processing, through small processing to businesses. When discussing the draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers, it is worth considering the fact that, under the rules set out by the EU direct sales regulations, Member States have more freedom than is currently presented in Polish law. Many EU countries, such as France and Italy, do not treat the catalogue of products as a closed catalogue, but do not stop by the fact that European Union law lists all elements of this catalogue that there are no other options than those mentioned. These countries are expanding the list of products sold as part of direct sales. In France you can sell such products as milk, eggs, fruit, vegetables, bread, foie gras, yogurt, cheese, ready-to-eat dishes. [[You can't foie gras.]] In Italy, however, direct sales were extended to include wine and other products of the wine sector, fruit and vegetable products, olive products, including olive oil. Polish regulations lack the same extension, resulting in considerable restrictions on the sale of a wide range of processed products such as juices, jams, purée, home bread, raw meat and some of its products, oils, butter, cheese, milk and many others. In Poland, the legal sale of processed products involves specific high requirements, which is why this is mainly done by specialised processing plants, which requires considerable financial expenditure. Small food producers are unable to afford such production and therefore do not participate in the market for these goods. This results in limited access to the best quality naturally produced processed products and the functioning of the grey zone in this production department. In many EU countries, regulations have been developed to allow the sale of natural products from small and medium-sized farms, while maintaining the hygiene and quality standards of the food sold. The production of small quantities of food products and therefore the associated low revenues do not allow the investments required for their safe processing, so the aim is to allow more than one farmer to use the production base. And an amendment like that would be useful here. Now - I'm not sure because you've tabled an amendment, but I don't know what it says, so maybe I'm saying it again. On the other hand, we could use such an amendment so that there is a chance to use business incubators - not only do we notice it, but also many clubs - and within this programme we could build a base for small processing. This is a model example of incubatory entrepreneurship. Farmers, without investing, would have the opportunity to check whether the processing they want to undertake will work in the business model. I think there's a lot of other improvements I could use. Today, when I observe work in committee and subcommittee, I see so many downsides that the Modern Posel Club, without yet knowing these amendments of the state, cannot support this project, although, as you know, farmers are waiting for it and consumers are waiting for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u400	Thank you. Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I think we are dealing with one of the most important problems in terms of Polish agriculture, given its circumstances. For 8 years I have tried to conduct agricultural policy to show at least three levels: the level of high-quality export agriculture, the level of Polish agriculture in the context of the supply of Polish shops and the Polish consumer, while at the same time creating conditions for production and processing, the final processing of food products on the farm, on the family farm. And to be honest, as long as I had to function in a coalition system, in different circumstances, when I actually had the agri-food processing sector behind the other side, but also ubiquitous inspections, also very strongly supported by our coalitionist, the Civic Platform, I thought that now that we are dealing with one party, homogeneous, with full responsibility and full sovereignty over all these institutions, this direct sale could indeed be fully regulated. I would like to say this: if we go to a French or Italian farmer dealing with processing and direct sales, we see that if we send a Polish health centre and a Polish Veterinary Inspection there, none of these farmers could deliver products to the EU market. In Poland, of course, we meet much higher hygiene standards, but when it comes to legal solutions and the possibility of implementing it, there is still a barrier. We have also discussed this with the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Ardanowski, many times. These proposals you are making are going in the right direction, but these are all, unfortunately, still half measures. I still reply that the holding which decides to sell directly, that is the holding which should be received at the time of the notification by one of the inspections. It then takes full responsibility for the quality of production it provides to the consumer. The consumer once resented the purchase of the wrong product, and this is still small-scale production, the second time the producer will not go to it. Another important thing is mutual trust. With direct sales, it is possible to directly control the quality and the way in which these products are manufactured by the consumer. I think the key to how to overcome this inability to sell directly and process products on the farm is to finally get rid of the dominance of inspections and the fear of agri-food processing, that suddenly direct sales will take over a significant part of the market. No. Direct sales will not take over exports, direct sales will not take over large domestic retail chains, while direct sales will be an opportunity to provide consumers in the nearest fresh area, directly on the farm of a manufactured product of specific, sublime quality. That is why I do not make big remarks to this project, I do not oppose it. I want to talk about whether or not tax-free, the tax-paying guy, there's gonna be $20,000. or 40,000, or as it was in our project, with consent or otherwise, with the humiliation of a coalitioner without a free amount, it doesn't matter much. The issue of this admission for sale and the definition of requirements, but at start-up, not continuous controls, is of the utmost importance. If there are still two inspections on the holding which he wishes to sell, process and sell, no farmer will be able to withstand these inspections. After all, we have good experience with production, with this marginal sale, limited local, with processing. He specialized in equipment and promotion of this way of selling Radom farm advisory center. You can draw from it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, I would like to stress once again: the politicians who rule today in Poland, who are full of power, may also have the power, but above all they should have the courage to break...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u402	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u403	...resistance to inspection and resistance to agri-food processing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u404	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers after the work on this project in committee and subcommittee. This draft law was discussed in detail in committee and subcommittee work. Not all issues have been resolved. We don't all agree on everything. However, it is certain that a law facilitating the retail sale of farmers should have been passed long ago. Now you can squawk, you can continue to drag this process out and probably nothing will come of it. It is also possible, once the law has been passed, to allow the next year to show in which areas the regulations in question need to be refined, the extent to which is the real interest in this solution among farmers and consumers. The work so far on this project has led to a number of changes, of which it is more important to enable the sale of food produced by farmers by other farmers, including farmers engaged in agricultural retail trade, during exhibitions, festivals and fairs, and in addition to the slaughter of animals in the slaughterhouse for the slaughter of these animals and the milling of cereals, and to enable the pressing of juice or oil. These are changes that demonstrate the realistic approach of applicants who listen to social guidelines and expectations. Despite good will, however, not all comments are possible, because you can always do more or even more friendly. There are many proposals not included, such as: increase of the revenue limit of 20 000 PLN to 40,000. or 75 thousand, after which the income from agricultural retail trade is to be taxed by a 2% flat rate. However, the first step is now important. Other controversial issues include: extending the catalogue of final recipients of processed products in the framework of agricultural retail trade, specifying the details of the hygiene checks carried out on holdings, determining the quality of the equipment of the premises used for processing and determining which inspection, whether veterinary or sanitary, is subject to the supervision of the holding concerned. All this needs to be worked out. It is already known today that some solutions are temporary, adapted to the current legal situation, which has already been announced. The effects of others are unpredictable before the law enters into force. As has been repeated many times during the joint meetings of committees: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, as well as the Emergency Sub-Committee, the work on this law has been ongoing for several years. Over the years, no satisfactory solutions have been adopted for all parties. This bill is not perfect and will certainly be revised, but the failure to approve it now will result in a further shift of one year or another. The Free and Solidarni Circle is, of course, in favour of further proceedings of the law. However, I do not hide that it is a voice given with a certain degree of confidence that the work will not be interrupted, and as a result we will see, among others. the extension of the end-user catalogue of processed products in the framework of agricultural retail trade, as announced in the subcommittee, and the rapid increase in the limit of the non-taxed income of farmers from trade that we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u406	Thank you. Mr Janusz Sanocki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wonder how this world worked when there was no health care when there was no veterinary inspection. How could that even work? How did mankind then buy these products? Ladies and gentlemen, wherever we go... There are bazaars in France, trade fairs where farmers sell their wine, their... [[And the inspections are there.]] Ma'am, we have a misguided paradigm of approach to these issues. The principle of prevention creates unsolvable problems. There should be a principle of producer responsibility, helping this producer, this guy, this farmer. And we create a whole bunch of obstacles before someone gets to the point that they can sell a liter of their milk or their cheese. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, this is not an achievement, after all, we are going through this pointless paradigm of pre-control. It's just unsolvable. I appeal to everyone, maybe someday I'll see that we reverse all of this and start just letting people do business: laissez faire, laissez passer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u408	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. Question time - 1.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Legislative solutions related to direct sales of food from farmers during the previous term of the Sejm were moving towards facilitation and reduction of bureaucracy. Unfortunately, today's project does not seek such solutions. Unfortunately, the law proposed by the government party is too complicated, imposing excessive veterinary, criminal and tax restrictions on farmers who want to sell food directly. This law could lead to the collapse of small family farms that want to sell food directly. They do not have the opportunity to compete with large farms, and under the law they will be subject to the same legal arrangements. In fact, in place of controls, officials should visit farmers and advise them on what needs to be changed and improved. In the meantime, we'll have checks and penalties. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: What is a good change for small farmers when it comes to the provisions of this law? What kind of facilities can they really expect? Because I don't really see any facilitation here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u410	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u411	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I, contrary to what my predecessor said, have high hopes in this bill. She's needed, and she'll be useful to the farmers. Only the biggest problem: when will it work? As I said during the presentation of the position, the most important is the regulation on sanitary and epidemiological conditions. At the committee meeting, we learned that this regulation is not yet in place. We saw the project. When will this regulation be available so that we, Members and farmers can get acquainted with it, and when will it be notified? The question is, as the Minister predicts: Will it be 6 or 8 months or 18 months so that the law can work for farmers and consumers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u412	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The basic question is: Is the State responsible for food safety? Yes, he is responsible for food safety. Control, proportionate to the risk scale, to the extent of risk, can be carried out in two ways, at two levels, and this is the case here in the discussion: research only and only the final product, without looking at how the product is performed, or - what is in Poland - also checking intermediate stages under which conditions It's happening. You can go like this, you can go like this. What Minister Sawicki is saying - I understand it very well, because I have observed your attempts over the years - what Mrs Niedziela says is actually a declaration of failure. It was not possible to introduce rules because the inspections responsible for food safety were so strong, so supported by their trade unions or chambers that they lost every idea. This bill, however, is an attempt to get out of this enchanted circle, out of this pat. I'm sure we'll make it. Of course, I also see a number of shortcomings, a number of problems. Isn't there going to be overregulation? It is therefore extremely important that this regulation, which we have discussed so much, lay down the conditions that must be met. But, for God's sake, let's start somewhere else, because otherwise we're all going to say that we wanted it well - only that among our dear friends the hare dogs ate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u414	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course it is a confession, Mr - you were in this subcommittee, I was 4 years - but it must also be acknowledged that some tax laws have been prepared and can function. Question: "Will you learn from the problem of not using it in that term?" No. My question: What will be paid and how? I'm asking the Minister to answer me if the farmer who's going to sell milk, cheese, eggs is going to be fired. So neither milk nor curd nor eggs are subject to tax. On the other hand, butter, cheese must be recorded. Come on, cookie baked, cheese bun, the bun must be recorded. But if I sell carrots or proverbial pigeons, I'm gonna have to keep records, while cabbage and a lot of things aren't. This inequality towards the tax is so complicated that it will cause this, Mr President, that the official will be able to intrude on this farmer, because he will need to know all the lists, know what is on the list of direct sales exempt from tax, and what is on the list of registered sales at which 20,000 each. He's gonna jump on a lump sum. Wasn't it easier to cover everything with a lump sum? ♪ 'Cause farmers ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] they say in the hall: we want to pay this flat-rate 2%, because it's small money, but we want to have a clear tax interpretation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u416	Thank you. Ms Agata Borowiec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u417	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that we are facilitating the sale of processed food by farmers, such facilitations already exist in many European Union countries. In Poland, farmers' sales can be an additional source of income for them, especially in small and medium-sized farms. Asking the Ministry about the details of the law that farmers are asking: What amount of processed food in particular groups or categories will they be able to sell in the framework of agricultural retail trade? The determination of this quantity is to be clarified in the Regulation of the Minister for Agriculture issued on the basis of the Law of 25 August 2006 on food safety and nutrition. Question: "When is the Ministry going to issue this regulation?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u418	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Presumably he will agree with his colleague Ardanowski that this law has in some sense a traversing character and such a survey, in the sense that we will soon return to it, because the number of doubts and such some non-living regulations is obviously considerable here. I pointed out that this production, this boiler dump can be built on a habitat site almost, and that people who no longer run a farm, passed this farm, are retired from farming. There is no access here for these people, there is also no access for neighbouring cooperation or environmental cooperation of farmers, which would be very useful here. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the cost of this bill. Well, the Polish state will add between 12 and 14 gr to each zloty earned in this system, according to the calculations that you gave, in 10 years it will add between 12 and 14 gr, it is very, very much, so it is a far-reaching gift. There is a question about how this calculation of costs was created, whether you can show it, because unfortunately the Polish state of interest will not do on this issue. I understand the gesture, I understand its need, and this law is certainly extremely expensive to implement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u420	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A law that will help individual farmers, small-scale individual farmers to sell their products, will facilitate this sale, is very important, but through this law we will not achieve this objective. Some time ago, it was maybe a few years ago, individual farmers were pushed out of the big supermarket market. Why? Because EU standards are saying that the cucumber should be as long and as thick as it was crooked - although the miseria tastes and from simple and crooked the same - it was rejected, thrown away, and supermarkets dealt with it so that if they didn't need the goods, they said that the product was not good. If we now treat an individual farmer with such taxes, so complicated, it will be the second hit on the same professional group. So my question is, are you planning, along with the introduction of this law, a system of advice on how to deal with all the bureaucracy that in this law is enormous and will be devastating for small individual farmers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u422	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of the proposed law, the government project, is to create better opportunities for Polish farmers to develop their production and sale to final consumers of food produced in whole or in part from their own cultivation, farming and breeding. That is very important and very important, the basic thing: not only processed food, but above all food produced, which is enshrined in Article. 1 of this law, a minimum of 50% produced on its own holding. Currently, there is no uniform approach in the territory of the Republic of Poland regarding the competence of the authorities authorised to register, the approval of retail establishments, the proverbial direct sales in which production is carried out, including the processing of food, i.e. production of meats, sausages, fruit juices, vegetables or pierogies. At the same time, the current national tax rules lay down different rules on the taxation of farmers' sales of products processed from their own cultivation, farming or farming, without indicating clearly when such sales are exempt from income tax. In particular, the proposed law plans to define the concept of agricultural retail trade, namely the retail trade consisting of selling to the final consumer, without the participation of the intermediary, food derived wholly or partly from its own cultivation, farming, farming of food business operators. The second thing, very important and important, is the identification of authorities competent to supervise the safety of food produced in the framework of agricultural retail trade. Here, the supervision of the appropriate health quality of products of animal origin or food containing food of non-animal origin undergoes veterinary inspection, while the supervision of the relevant health quality of food of non-animal origin remains the responsibility of the authorities of the State Sanitary Inspection. Another important thing is to grant the Minister responsible for agriculture, in agreement with the Minister responsible for health, the competence to define, by means of regulations, limits on the size of activities carried out for one entity in the framework of agricultural retail trade. Here I will immediately reply to Mrs Borowiec that the draft regulation on the maximum quantity of food sold in the framework of agricultural retail trade and the scope and method of documenting it is already prepared and will enter into force on the date of the entry into force of the law, namely on 1 January 2017. It is also a matter of competence to lay down hygiene requirements for operators engaged in agricultural retail trade in products of animal origin and food submitted within the scope of possible adaptations of those requirements to the requirements set out in Annex II to the Regulation. Mr President, Madam President, the draft regulation is already being prepared and will also enter into force with the entry into force of the law, which is 1 January 2017. It is also very important to introduce tax preferences for agricultural producers engaged in retail trade, taking into account inter alia. cases where the slaughter of animals in order to obtain meat for production in accordance with Union law must be carried out in an approved slaughterhouse veterinarian and the production of flour, groats or bran, juices, oil from its own cultivation takes place in specialised establishments. In this respect, it is proposed in particular to exempt from tax income tax on natural persons income from agricultural retail trade up to 20 000. per year. Above this amount, the flat-rate tax will be 2%. I reply to Mrs Niedziela. Eggs, milk, or basic products, are not exempt from tax, whereas cheese as a processed product is already exempt from tax. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you kindly to accept a government bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u424	Thank you, Minister. I would like the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I want to thank you very much for your work and, above all, I want to thank the Minister for the drafting of this law, because this law is expected by farmers. What the opposition is doing here right now, this opposition criticism is just ridiculous to me. This is a great hypocrisy. Mrs Płępek says: we were working on the bill and the bill was going in the right direction. She has been going for eight years, and where has she gone that she hasn't been? It's just weird that this is how you work. The bill is expected, it's a step in the right direction. I think it's just gonna take a little more time to work on it to get it out, because farmers want to legally sell their products. And don't lie to the farmers that you were working on a bill that was going in the right direction. And one more thing. From the very beginning, since Law and Justice took over the state, the Civic Platform and all those CODEs, not the CODEs, Moderns don't do anything, just scare. And the law is needed and will serve Polish farmers and consumers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u426	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u427	Farmers and consumers are waiting for a law to facilitate the sale of food by farmers. The tax-free amount presented by the government is 20,000. zł. Taking into account the costs of raw material, processing and transport, the amount presented seems low. So I would like to ask the question: How was the amount calculated?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u428	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 29 hours 19 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the opening of the Temple of Divine Providence. The project is print number 1029. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I inform the High Chamber that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland declared 2016 as the Year of Henryk Sienkiewicz, I remind you actually. The author of the trilogy became the creator of modern national consciousness based on the faithfulness of tradition and knightly ethos, the tradition of praise for freedom, and faithfulness to God and his homeland, combining all the social and uniting groups of the nation. The year of Henryk Sienkiewicz introduces us to the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Today, November 15th, is the 100th anniversary of our Nobel Prize winner's death. Let's celebrate his memory with a minute of silence. [[A moment of silence]] Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the occasion of the opening of the Temple of Divine Providence (Print No. 1029). I ask you to rise again. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the draft resolution. The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the occasion of the opening of the Temple of Divine Providence. On 11 November 2016, the Temple of Divine Providence was opened, the construction of which promised the Great Sejm in the declaration of 5 May 1791 as a vote of the nation for 'a moment of successful excavation of Poland from foreign violence and domestic disorder'. Started on 3 May 1792 in the area of the present Botanical Garden construction interrupted the collapse of the Republic. After regaining independence of the Legislative Sejm on the day of the adoption of the Constitution of March 17, 1921, he adopted a law on the execution of the vow made by the Four Years Sejm, the ascension of the temple in Warsaw under the call of 'God's Providence'. The construction of the temple at the Mokotowski Field, which began under this law in the summer of 1939, interrupted the outbreak of World War II. On 2 May 1999, the construction of the temple was carried out for the third time at the Wilanowski Fields. In the National Independence Day on 11 November 2016, the Temple of Divine Providence was opened. Our generation, living in free, independent Poland, fulfilled the promise of its ancestors. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute and gratitude to all those who have spent 225 years trying to fulfill their vows made by the Grand Sejm. I ask Members to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the opening of the Temple of Divine Providence. A group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes. The design is print number 995. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of the project. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to supplement the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the Parliamentary bill amending the Law on Research Institutes, print No. 995, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. Two Members abstained in the vote 225 against - 207. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1005-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Tadeusz Cymanski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u429	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Finance Committee has just completed its work and recommends that the High House reject the amendments tabled which have not been accepted by the Finance Committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u430	Thank you very much. The Commission also presents a minority proposal. We will vote first on this proposal and on the additional amendments tabled. To the article. 1 of the bill containing amendments to the Individual Income Tax Act, amendment 1 and minority request were tabled. In the first amendment to Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 consisting of the addition of paragraph. 1a and 1b applicants propose inter alia. an increase in the tax reduction amount. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render the minority's proposal unobtrusive. Questions are raised by Members. Member of Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u431	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Prime Minister in her exposé talked about signing a contract with voters, a contract with Poles. Prime Minister Szydło said that within 100 days of her government's operation, she would fulfill several promises. One of them was to increase the tax-free amount. [[But you already said that in the debate.]] It was supposed to be about 8,000. PLN, unfortunately the next year will be about PLN 3100. Today, the Minister made another promise that this amount would be increased from 1 January 2018. Will you keep that promise, or have you lied to the Poles again? By implementing this bill, PiS broke that contract with Poles, broke the contract with his constituents. Prime Minister, when will the Poles have a higher tax-free amount? The modern has submitted an appropriate project to the marshal's staff, so it should only be supported. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u432	Thank you. Mr Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u433	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Question for the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister promised that within 100 days, the electoral promise of a higher tax-free amount of 8,000 would be fulfilled. zł. The same proposal was submitted by the President regarding the tax-free amount of up to 8 000. zł. There is also a judgment of the Constitutional Court. So why didn't the Prime Minister submit such a project? Question for the rapporteur. Do you think that the promise made publicly in this Chamber should apply to politicians? It is not only a contract with voters, but it is a promise made before the legislative authority here in Parliament. Therefore, according to this conclusion, why didn't the Prime Minister present such a project and why Poles couldn't have a tax-free amount from next year, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what you said: 8,000. Evil? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u434	Thank you. And Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u435	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicant whether he will accept my call, which I am addressing to all taxpayers, all citizens. Dear citizens, in response to this attempt to circumvent the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, I call on you to circumvent this law as well. I propose that, following the submission of a tax return to the tax office, the State should, on the basis of the ruling of the Constitutional Court, apply for repayment of the income tax overpayment. Of course, the tax office will not agree with this, so that the case can be sent to the Supreme Administrative Court. It will be a year or maybe two, maybe three, maybe four years, but with the favor of the judges, we may be able to recover the money owed to the state, that is, citizens. I'm very appealing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To get past this bill and pursue your rights in court. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u436	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 203 Members voted against - 219, 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the minority proposal to Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The applicant proposes to increase the tax-free amount. The question is raised by Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yeah, that's our minority request, increasing the tax-free amount to 6.5,000, that's the minimum existential. I have here the justification for this country's project in which it is written: In order to ensure the constitutional principle of legal certainty for taxpayers, and in particular to guarantee the right to take account of the amount free, there is an urgent need for a legislative initiative setting out the rules for calculating income tax. That need was so urgent that you didn't even have time to change the tax-free amount, you just left it at $3,000. However, you can fix this by voting for this amendment to raise the amount to 6.5 thousand. zł. In addition, one can read: In view of the increase announced by the Prime Minister in the exposé, it is justified to maintain the existing tax rules also in the following year and this year. So, as the Prime Minister wants to increase, we have to now, I understand, lower and maintain this level of quota, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Until the Prime Minister decides otherwise. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u438	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 210 Members voted against - 222 Members, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second amendment, applicants shall propose a new wording of point 5 of Article. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u439	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for Prime Minister Morawiecki, who is not here today. How is this bill, a parliamentary bill filed on 31 October, procedated on 4 and 14 November, and voted today by the High House for a legal certainty clause? Prime Minister Morawiecki said that the foundation of the constitution for entrepreneurs is the legal certainty clause. How is this project for legal certainty for entrepreneurs, for Polish investors who have invested their own funds, closed investment funds, which today you are trying to double tax? This is the wrong way, the wrong direction, that is over 600 FIZs, where there are 149 billion PLN of capital, which is reinvested in Poland. How does that fit into Moravian plan? How does this apply to the plan of responsible development, in which the main axis is investing in Poland, among others. Private capital? Don't go that way. This is a mistake. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And how's that -- once again, Prime Minister -- how's that for...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u440	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u441	...a plan for responsible development, to invest in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u442	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 166, against - 228, with 36. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in an appropriate amendment to the Article. 4 and the title of the Act. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u443	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the marshal in this Chamber always supports the rules of procedure and says when a Member exceeds any procedure contained in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We cannot therefore agree to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and to the introduction of provisions in Article. 3 on Tax Ordering and erasing tax interpretations. In this way, this amendment has been passed by the rule of law. And I'll also ask your marshal to take an interest in this case. We can't create that kind of law. In addition, this amendment deletes the tax interpretations in force from the date of implementation of this law and violates the principle of non-retroactivity. It is therefore worthwhile for all ladies and gentlemen of Parliament to consider not to break the rules of law in this House and the Marshal [[♪ The bell ♪]] he should be able to guard that rule. This amendment should therefore be rejected. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, comment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u444	Ladies and gentlemen, no comment. The amendment reads: delete Article. 3. [[It's gotta be crossed out.]] [[The rules have been violated!]] In the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, I did not have any information calling into question the formal content of this amendment. [[Interrogate the tapes!]] We therefore proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment, with the consequence, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 175, against 225, and 32 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u445	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Dear Members of Law and Justice! When you go out with projects like the original project we're discussing, you're ridiculing yourself and this House. Fortunately, you have come to your senses under the pressure of opposition and a group of experts, while this is not the biggest problem of Poland, this is not the biggest problem of the Republic of Poland. The biggest problem is that you can see that in panic you are looking for money in the pockets of Poles. And this design, its original shape, is the best proof of that. You were close to ruining the capital market in Poland just to earn PLN 2.5 billion to next year's budget. You're gonna make more and more mistakes like this because you know you need money quickly to patch up the budget holes you've made. Unfortunately, that's how it's gonna look, at the end of the day, next year, you're gonna lead to 1.5%. GDP, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not two and a half...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u446	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u447	...as today announced by the CUS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u448	I am just pointing out to you that we need to talk about things and things. You said nothing at all about it. [[Exactly.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants whether they realise that by taking such complicated matters as capital market taxation, such as investment fund taxation, we are destroying one of the biggest achievements of our last 20 years, and there have been many of them, i.e. creating the entire investment fund market that we have at European level. This is one of the supports of the Warsaw Stock Exchange. Do you realize that such rapid proceding, meaningless - fortunately at the last moment you have made some changes that will not kill to the end of this market - do you know that this is an act contrary to Morawiecki's plan... [[Voice from the hall: Morawiecki did not notice.]] ...that this is an action against the goal of building Polish capital, that it is an action contrary to the fact that there will be funds for Polish start-ups, that there will be resources for new start-ups, for new Polish companies? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u450	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 183 voted against - 232, 23 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question is raised by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! During the debate on this project, the rapporteur gave a false thesis from the Seym Speaker. Well, Mr Cymanski said that the Civic Platform has no right to criticize the bad ideas of the PiS, because it itself has not introduced any legislation sealing the tax system. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Finance to answer my two short questions. Is the Foreign Controlled Companies Act, or the transfer pricing rules, the uniform control file, the reverse of Vata, fuel licensing the tax system seal, Minister? Second question: Has the Civic Platform government introduced these regulations? I ask for an answer so that the PiS Members do not cast calumnia from the Seymary. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u452	Thank you. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u453	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At the end of the anniversary celebration of the PiS government will be, quoting the classic present in the hall, nailed into the coffin of the higher amount of free. Here I'm going to ask you about the chronology of these events. First, the Prime Minister promises a higher amount of free money, then the PiS club destroys these promises by proposing a bill in which the free amount is maintained at a fixed level, thus justifying that a uniform tax in the future will lead to a higher amount of free money. But yesterday we learned from the Prime Minister's mouth that unfortunately a uniform tax is just an assumption that maybe it will come into force and maybe it won't. So tell all taxpayers, the poorest in Poland, that there will be no amount of free money, that you will draw from their pockets. Unfortunately, this self-destruct gene translates between the PiS club and the government, and somewhere in the middle there are ordinary citizens who were waiting for the decision to increase the amount free. Truly, it is not enough to lift it up - only to be responsible for our own words, the promises that we have all heard here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u454	Excuse me. Member Jakub Kulesza, club Kukiz.15. I've been looking into the government. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Handsome is the peasant.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u455	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicant whether he agrees with Minister Henryk Kowalczyk, the person responsible in this government for the reform of the uniform tax, who said: the government and the Ministry of Finance should be ashamed that they blocked this change. According to our calculations, it is possible to increase both the tax-free amount and the program of 500 PLN per child. That's not excluded. Do you agree with the Minister? If so, where is the shame on the faces of government representatives, since last year these two projects were not excluded and there were precise calculations from the Minister? Question: "How will the single income tax assumption be calculated on this basis?" Are we not going to hear a change of heart next year and the representatives again? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The government's gonna pretend there's no shame on their faces? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u456	Minister Henryk Kowalczyk would like to reply to Mr. [[Come on, now you're gonna be ashamed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u457	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! The Member quoted my statement a year ago. In fact, that was the case and I still maintain it because the tax fraud that was under the PO-PSL regime amounted to more than PLN 50 billion. [[Applause]] [[I'm asking for an answer.]] Of course, over PLN 50 billion a year - someone rightly suggests. [[Voice from the hall: Don't tell me stupid things.]] [[Which sleeve?]] For many years the previous government of the Platform has declared the introduction of the IT system into VAT invoices, the sealing of the tax system, and yet a hole in tax collection grew annually. [[Minister, the fifth European economy. What are we talking about?]] The laws that the government is proposing right now give us a chance to seal taxes. We'll probably find 50 billion in the coming years. [[How long have you been in charge?]] That, of course, will be enough for 500+ to reduce the retirement age. Besides, 500+ is already found. [[The fifth European economy.]] So we're really doing what you guys just declared, and the tax hole was growing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u458	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1005, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 227 voted against - 210, 4 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Law on the amendment of the Tax Order and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. The additional committee report shall be in print No 956-A. We proceed to the third reading. Mr Piotr Polak, rapporteur of the committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Three amendments were tabled at the second reading today. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which also took place today, all three amendments received a negative recommendation. The Commission proposes that these three amendments be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u460	Thank you. We will vote on these amendments first. In the first amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a point 2 of the amended act, applicants shall propose new burden-bearing lit. a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Jarosław Sachajko, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We are voting on one of the two amendments that we tabled as a Kukiz club15, which is very important because it focuses on Polish farmers. Promotion funds are made up of only Polish farmers, not some French farmers, Italian farmers or - today - Chinese farmers. We should support only Polish farmers, not all others, with these funds. My question to the Minister. Why do we not focus only on helping Polish farmers, and from Polish money we support Italian, French, Chinese and all others? We don't have that much money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u462	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 52 Members voted against - 378, with 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose to add a revised Article in the Act. 10a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! 2. The amendment also concerns this very important law, and now we very often hear from the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, that money has nationality, that we must support Polish capital. Now I saw a very interesting film, such an advertisement or invitation to Congress 590 in Rzeszów, which will take place next Thursday, Friday. It's all very nice. Let's fight for our money. Why do we not take every opportunity, even in this law, to promote Polish capital and not to promote any other? I ask you to support this amendment, because it focuses on helping Polish, native companies, not everyone else. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u464	Thank you. I understand that the voice of the Member is in favour of the amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 41 votes against - 400, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 2 in the draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 165 voted against - 236, 37 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 956, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 400 Members voted against - 5, 35 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. We are returning to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Agricultural Insurance and Farm Animals. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 838-A. I would like to ask Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch to present this report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! One amendment was tabled during the second reading of this law. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after considering this amendment, recommends that it be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u466	Thank you. And this amendment will be voted first. In the amendment, applicants propose to add to the draft law amending the article. 1a and Article 1a 1b. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 281 against - 127, with 33 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u467	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We are now seeing a decrease in the number of insurances for agricultural crops. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The question arises as to why this is happening. These crops, that is, all that farmers manage, are insured from hail, from drought, from nawal rain, and the farmer can never get into the cataclysm that is going to happen. Farmers are increasingly less likely to cover their crops, because this means that they cannot make money by adding the profit and loss balance. When there is such an insurance package, will it also save the state budget? This is a very important question, because at the moment it seems that we will spend very much on these insurances, but when the farmer receives the insurance money, will it not turn out that the state budget will save money when he no longer has to pay compensation for natural disasters in agriculture in a given area of Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u468	Thank you. Then there will be no answer. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 838, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 440 Members, the vote was 408, nobody voted, 32 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Agricultural Insurance and Farm Animals. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Retail Tax Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1007. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print... Excuse me. Excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been informed that three Members have submitted a question. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: That was good!]] Thank you for this joy, but this is a perfectly regular procedure. The first question is asked by Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government in the criticism of the European Union is saying that it is necessary to eliminate or in some way limit this political flow, the EU, Brussels, but fully supports the single market, supports the single market, supports all the principles of free movement, trade, etc. It is uncoherent, absolutely uncoherent with the slogans, with the policy of economic patriotism, because we, being an economy developing in order to carry out precisely the development of Polish enterprises, in order to achieve what Minister Morawiecki says, need a well understood protectionism, we need tax diversification, we need [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] customs policy, own customs policy. And it turns out that even the trade tax in the form in which it was adopted is also being challenged by the European Commission. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is: Shouldn't the Polish government consider very seriously further building on the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u470	Thank you, sir. Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u471	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill we read that, due to the suspension of trade tax, the revenue to the budget in 2017 will be reduced by PLN 1.5 billion. In turn, the draft budget law states that the revenue side of the tax is planned to be 1,200 million. Question to the government: Who made a mistake of PLN 300 million? That's one question. Second question: If there is a suspension of this tax, do you plan to introduce an amendment in your draft budget law and withdraw revenue from large-scale shops tax in the amount of PLN 1200 million on the revenue side? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u472	Please. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u473	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There was supposed to be a bill setting up foreign hypermarkets to an angle, and it turned out that today the trade tax is most afraid of Polish shops, Polish networks, small shops, because they know that linear trade tax for many of them simply means bankruptcy. And it was you who, when you made promises that were unfulfilled, that once again led to it. Today you are still pretending that you know what to do with this tax, and probably the most likely, if it weren't for the budget hole, you would have given it up. You can't introduce taxes, so don't do it. There's no point in pretending you have a plan B if you don't have one. It doesn't matter to say that Modern is in favour of giving up. Modern is, ladies and gentlemen, in favour of learning from the mistakes of the predecessors, including [[♪ The bell ♪]] precisely on the example of Hungary, where the progressive tax case was also lost before the Court of Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[How's the treasurer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u474	Thank you, Member. The Deputy Minister of Finance Wiesław Janczyk asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u475	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] As regards the questions, in order: The first question was rather a kind of declaration and a private opinion on how Poland and the European Union should be organized. As regards the second question, the amount of 1590 million, other than in the draft budget law for the next year, is the result of an impact assessment which accompanied the implementation of the project at the time it was presented to the High House, and as such it had to be included in the explanatory memorandum of the law on the suspension of its action and its effects. As for the amount of 1,200 million, which is in the remaining tax revenue included in the draft budget, we assume that this is the amount of... Firstly, we are not sure that the tax will not work at all and will ultimately be challenged by the decision of the European Commission, because so far the European Commission has not issued a final decision on this matter, but has initiated proceedings. Thus, after such a decision, Poland will eventually still be entitled to an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union if this decision is unfavourable. With regard to the concept of whether this tribute can be introduced at all and how I would like to say that Poland is following a pioneer trail here. Many Central European countries, which expect a tax which would act as a stimulus for this kind of regulation, expect the final of the Polish and European Union dialogue in this area, because they are ready to introduce a similar regulation. This regulation, which I hope in a moment, and I ask the High House to do so, will exactly result in both filing a tax declaration and paying the tax itself being suspended, in this case by the end of 2017. I kindly ask the High House to vote in favour of this novel. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u476	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1007, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 232 voted against - 206, 4 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Retail Tax Act. We would like to refer to item 8 on the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the Animal Protection Act. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 986. Ms. Ewa Lieder, the modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u477	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Parliamentary bill amending the Animal Protection Act adds a provision on the prevention of the homelessness of animals by adopting a plan for their sterilization and castration. This is a good idea, because it will prevent the suffering of animals, although in Poland we still allow suffering of animals, e.g. in circuses, suffering dogs that spend their entire lives on the chain, but also animals bred for fur. [[And you want to kill people?]] Ladies and gentlemen, there's an exhibition in the lobby of the hotel. Before you buy a Christmas present, e.g. fur, look at the conditions under which foxes are raised in Poland, legally. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u478	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 986, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 436 against 1 Member and 3 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Animal Protection Act. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs and the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on Foreigners. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 977. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.977, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 436 voted in favour, no one voted against, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm passed a law on amending the Polish Charter Act and the Foreigners Act. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal (Print No 963) - follow-up. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. Questions are raised by Members: Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voice from the room: Mouse!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u479	Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! [[How's the treasurer?]] [[Voice from the hall: Shame on you.]] Yes, the anointed Jarosław Kaczyński are already in the Prime Minister's office, they are in the Ministry of Finance, and when this law comes into force, they will direct the work of the Polish constitutional court. But PiS wants to take control... [[How's the treasurer?]] ...on the Constitutional Court before he can impose a new president. That's what art is for. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of this bill. The question is, why create such a vacancy as president at all? Why not elect a president before this vacancy rises? Why should the oldest judge, not the vice-president, be in charge of the court during his vacancy as president? Why should an internship be taken into account in the capacity of e.g. A government official, meaning no connection to the work at the Constitutional Court? Maybe it was simply necessary to state in this act that from the date of the opening of the vacancy until the election of the new President of the Constitutional Tribunal the work of the Tribunal is to be directed by Judge Julia Przyłębska? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Good idea.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u480	Thank you. Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u481	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Recently, I have been able to convince the Prime Minister with my voice when I asked for consideration and reflection in the vote on our amendment and the removal of the non-constitutional record on judges and the expiry of the mandate at the age of 70, so I have a request to the Prime Minister. Then perhaps you were frightened by this proposal that your ministers should submit medical certificates for office. At the moment, I appeal to the Prime Minister to appeal for the rejection of this wrong, wrong bill one year after she has taken over the government. We are back to square one, you are proving that we have lost a year only for you to play with the Constitutional Tribunal so that you can play with the rights of Polish citizens so that you do not respect human rights. In fact, it's the only goal you've ever had. [[♪ The bell ♪]] From the beginning, it is the possession of its own President of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u482	Thank you, sir. Member Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u483	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I will start by asking the question: Are you aware that even the adoption of this law, which you are proposing, will not end the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal? You have to learn to count to 18. We have 18 elected judges, 15 sworn in, and at the moment 12 judges. And even allowing those three judges whose current President of the Tribunal has not allowed them to rule... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ...will not end this dispute. You are aware that the only solution to this dispute is to increase the membership from 15 to 18 judges. There is also a change in the method of appointing judges from the ordinary majority to the qualified majority that we propose. Did you read the recommendations of the Venice Commission, which you yourself brought to Poland like Konrad Mazowiecki a few centuries ago... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure you're well aware of that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u484	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The next Act on the Constitutional Court not only does not interest most Poles, not only does it not interest most of the media, but - as I bring from the level of noise - does not even interest most of this room. Of course, a kind of success of the ruling party is to bring about this state and this is a consequence of the political intention. I'd like to draw your attention. Just one thing and ask a question about it. Do you realize that with a stable government majority that doesn't have to be a coalition with another club, you have a president, you have a political leader who has undisputed power in his camp... [[It won't be long now.]] ...and having a de facto paralyzed Constitutional Tribunal, do you also have full responsibility for what will happen in Poland in the coming years? With all these tools, are you fully aware and determined to do so? [[♪ The bell ♪]] something to change in Poland rather than - as for the previous year - just powder? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u486	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 963, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 210 Members voted against - 231, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. I'm ordering a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 32 hrs. 20 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Members who are having a conversation, I would ask them to move these talks into colloquials already. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws (prints No 972 and 1019). I ask Mr Mieczysław Miazga to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 The draft law entered the Sejm on 28 October 2016. On 3 November at the Sejm meeting, the draft law was addressed to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Today, November 15th, the first reading was held on the committee. This is an amendment to the Law of 20 February 2015, which amends, inter alia, to ensure faster launch and proper implementation of the Rural Development Programme activities for the period 2014 to 2020 and to simplify the procedures for applying for funds for beneficiaries of individual support instruments. In order to achieve these objectives it is also necessary to amend, inter alia. in the Act of 18 December 2003 on the national system of records of producers, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications. Following the presentation of the provisions of this law, the Minister was asked questions to which the Minister was responsible, as well as representatives of the Ministry and agricultural agencies. The proposals for amendments, which were adopted without reservation, were positively assessed in addition to minor editorial remarks. The draft law was adopted without amendments and the agriculture committee asks the High Sejm to adopt this law in its proposed form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u488	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Leszek Galemba will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to present to the High House the position of the club on the draft law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws, together with draft implementing acts, print No 972. The proposed amendments aim first and foremost to ensure that actions under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 are implemented more rapidly and correctly, including simplifications for beneficiaries of individual support instruments. In order to achieve these objectives, it is also necessary to amend the Act on the national producer registration system, the farm records and the records of payment applications and the Act on payments under direct support schemes. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development is making efforts to implement extensive soil monitoring. It is a tool to support the presentation of development policy achievements and the assessment of impact, efficiency, effectiveness of rural development interventions in terms of impact, including the 2014-2020 RDPs, on soil and water status and to provide support for the training of advisors in the framework of farm management services and services. Amendment proposed in Article Point 1 (2) will enable the implementing bodies to set up consultative bodies on matters falling within their competence. Uniformisation of the rules on the implementation of direct payments and agri-environment and organic farming, thus fulfilling the idea of simplifying rules and procedures - applications can be submitted on a single form within the same period. Amendment proposed in Article 1 point 8, the transfer of the handling of cases relating to the granting and payment of aid in the context of activities for young farmers and activities for the development of small farms to regional departments, will ensure better and more efficient implementation of the tasks in question. Increasing the knowledge of agricultural advisors through specialisation in organic farming, entrepreneurship and farm economy will enable beneficiaries to obtain more targeted and specialised assistance. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club makes one amendment to this bill. I present this amendment to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u490	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u491	The Law and Justice Club gives a positive opinion on the continuation of this law and requests its adoption by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u492	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Leszek Korzeniowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Civic Platform a position on the law amending the law on support for rural areas with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, print No 972. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important act, perhaps one of the most important laws in Polish agriculture, because it speaks precisely about how to transfer and transfer funds for Polish agriculture. It raises a number of issues relating to the operation of the RDP. It starts with a little prosaic, from information about the agency's transfer of restructuring and modernisation to a chemical and agricultural station of soil chemical analyses due to the requirements of the sustainable agriculture package. In addition to many other things, it also authorises the restructuring agency to implement the implementation of knowledge and information activities as well as advisory services in a non-target manner. It is to be feared whether the restructuring and modernisation agency will be able to cope with this task in the light of the personal problems that we once, a year ago, could have seen with direct payments. The next task allows the selection of persons who, without being employed in a implementing entity, will carry out a substantive evaluation of the operation. It's an interesting way to get a job. The project provides for the possibility of granting aid for an operation in certain cases in accordance with the Article Regulation. 18 amended act. An important issue is the deadline for presenting the legal title to the agricultural area of the agricultural holding agencies. We all remember the pathological phenomena that arose from it. This is a very valuable thing. Advisory services, farm management services - a difficult problem to solve. This is a huge game of interests with the Public Procurement Law or maybe dealt with in a different way in the way of awarding contracts. This is actually a pretty important business game. And now maybe a few words about the role of the Minister of Agriculture. According to the draft, the Minister for Agriculture proposes to amend the article. 3 adding the Act of 6 June on the principles of development policy, which aims to improve the process of approval by the European Commission of the proposal for amendments to the RDPs. At present, the Minister for Agriculture is not legally empowered to provide all necessary information and to take into account the observations made by the European Commission regarding the assessment submitted for approval of the draft amendments. This may significantly prolong the negotiation period of the managing authority and the European Commission. The fact remains that the managing body may submit one application per year to the European Commission. It's also a limiter, but maybe it's okay. Conclusion: If this law allows to normalize relations with KSOW's partners, it will help to resolve positively outstanding and unsolved operations, ending with certain unfair or legitimate activities and judicial matters, will facilitate effective spending of money for Polish farmers, reduce the animosity between beneficiaries and officials - I hope it will reduce those involved in the service of KSOW. I hope that the government will not try to politicize this law, and so-called. A good change, so highly preferred by colleagues here, will not cause the PiS to own this project. I'm politely briefing you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, that the Civic Platform will be in favour of further work on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u494	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the draft law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 and certain other laws. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the draft of this law is driven by changes in the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and one of the most important objectives of this project is the faster implementation of solutions within the framework of the programme already mentioned. The proposed changes will also lead to significant facilitations for beneficiaries of individual support instruments under the 2014-2020 RDPs. These goals are, of course, very noble and very valuable in themselves, because the implementation and management of rural development policy is a very important issue for the state of Polish agriculture in modern times. And no one deserves such help more than just a Polish farmer who often struggles with the hardships of everyday life on a farm that no ordinary man could handle. As Kukiz,15 we are in favour of this law because in our opinion it is necessary to do everything in our power to show respect for the Polish farmer and try to give him a decent life. And you can do it just like this. by simplifying certain specific procedures, which will lead to faster implementation of solutions within the framework of the 2014-2020 RDPs. However, with the approval of this draft law by Kukiz.15, certain worrying provisions, which are included in this document, cannot be overlooked. The explanatory memorandum states that, at the request of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, the provisions concerning the implementing entity referred to as the "Transfer of knowledge and information activities' and "Advisory services, farm management services and substitution services' have been amended. Moreover, the implementation of these tasks has not been entrusted to anyone other than ARiMR. The selection of the entity responsible for the implementation of these projects has been waived under the public procurement rules. The reason for this change has been identified among others. the fact that such a choice would be a complex and long-term process, which would inevitably lead to delays in the implementation of these projects. In addition, it was noted that the selection by tender might nevertheless not lead to the correct implementation of the programme assumptions. No one states that choosing ARiMR as a contractor must be a bad move, but it is certainly just an ad hoc method that does not solve this problem in a long-term way. Perhaps instead of improvising in this respect, it would be better to simplify procedures for public procurement so that similar situations like this are not duplicated? Finally, one more questionable aspect of the bill is worth mentioning. If ARiMR first recommended himself as an implementing entity for certain activities in the framework of the 2014-2020 RDPs, arguing that it has adequate staff resources and organisational structure, why is it further empowered to appoint specialists in the implementation of cases outside of the implementing entity's body, since ArimR is supposed to be well prepared for this? Despite these doubts, we are in favour of this law because it will help Polish farmers. I recommend that Kukiz15 vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u496	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Truskolas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Modern Club with regard to the amendment of the Law of 20 February 2015 on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. It is undoubtedly a necessary step forward in the revision of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 and in the course of its implementation. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the Government's draft amendment, the main objective of the proposed solutions is to ensure the smooth start of activities in the framework of the 2014-2020 RDPs and to make simplifications for those receiving support under this programme as well as to adapt national solutions to EU regulations. In addition, the aim is to harmonise the rules so as to eliminate gaps and notable doubts so far. The amendments proposed in the Article deserve attention. 1 points 18 and 19 in the field of training of agricultural advisers. It is proposed to award three specialties, i.e. as regards organic farming, entrepreneurship and the economics of the agricultural holding. The adoption of such a category provides the possibility for an agricultural advisor to obtain specialization and to broaden the scope of his knowledge and skills in a specific area. Consequently, the assistance provided by such advisers will have a higher degree of professionalism, which now seems necessary. The changes presented shall also indicate modifications to the training and the passing of the examination in a specific field. De lege summer rules do not address the problem of repeating the exam and do not take into account the lack of possibility of joining it. At this point, it is worth mentioning the introduction under the provisions of the Article. 2 amendments to the Act of 18 December 2003 on the national producer registration system, the farm records and the accounts of payment applications which allow the account number of the cooperative savings and credit register to be entered in the register instead of the bank account number. This makes it easier for a number of people who, despite the widespread use of banking services, do not have bank accounts for some reason. At the same time, it will be ensured that the rules in this respect are uniform with the regulations of the Law on RDPs 2014.2020, which allow the transfer of funds granted under the RDPs into an account at the cooperative savings bank. In addition, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the draft, the amendment proposed in Article. Point 8 is to transfer to regional branches the handling of cases relating to the granting and payment of aid and the implementation of multiannual commitments under sub-measures However, the transfer of operations to regional branches may cause some difficulties for the farmer. The farmer will have to commute to the voivodship city in any situation requiring him to appear before the authority conducting the proceedings. This will be both a financial and a temporary burden for him. Operating problems: Young farmers' bonuses in county offices were mainly due to the imposition on county offices in a short time of too many tasks without increasing the personnel resources of these units. At this point, it should be considered whether, at the moment, regional departments are prepared in terms of staffing to handle these activities. This may entail the need to increase the number of jobs in the regions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 paragraph 3 of the draft law is added. Article 2a 14kc Act of 6 December 2006 on the principles of development policy, which aims to improve the process of approval by the European Commission of the proposal for amendments to the RDPs 2014.2020. The proposed amendment is intended to improve and speed up the approval by the European Commission of the draft amendments to the 2014-2020 RDPs, and will further contribute to the full use of the programme's resources. De lege years of reference by the Minister responsible for. The development of rural areas to the comments made in the proposal makes it difficult to carry out the procedure again, which certainly leads to an extension of the duration of negotiations with the European Commission and delays the adoption of the amendments. Unfortunately, it is important in this law to increase the powers of the Foundation, the only funder of which is the State Treasury - the FAPA Foundation. We fear that the warm habitat for people of PSL will turn into a warm nest for the people of PiS. However, modern is in favour of further work on this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u498	Thank you. I ask Mr Mark Sawicki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u499	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Polish People's Party on the amendment of the law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development in the framework of the 2014 I would like to remind you that this is already such an annual ritual, because it draws on the experience of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme, as well as having further new ideas and proposals on solutions for individual actions, this law is de facto amended every year and requires acceptance in the Sejm every year. These changes are actually technical and organisational in nature, and each team, each government, has the right to solve all these problems according to its own understanding and assessment, and I still hope that for the benefit of farmers, for the benefit of the beneficiaries, also for the benefit of the entire agri-food processing. I also want to calm down the Modern. Let him not fear that this is only about any benefit for one party or another. This is primarily about farmers, processors and entrepreneurs. The details of the proposed changes have already been discussed here by my previous speakers, which is why I do not think it would have to be repeated once again. This law has, as I said, an organisational and technical nature and requires rapid implementation. I hope that, after its entry into force, the remaining rural development programmes will be launched, that it will be possible to submit applications and receive payments as soon as possible, after all, we already have the end of 2016, and this is the law on the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2016. I express my support for this project and wish you good luck in its implementation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u500	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 and certain other laws. The need to amend the law is due to the amendment of the Rural Development Programme and the experience gained so far from the implementation of the programme. In particular, the proposed amendment is intended to ensure that actions under the new programme are implemented more quickly and properly and that the beneficiaries benefit from the support are simplified. One of the most important changes introduced by the Act is to entrust activities: Knowledge transfer and information activities and advisory services, farm management services and services in the field of substitution of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The procedure so far envisaged the identification of an appropriate entity in public procurement procedures. In the draft law, the Minister considered the most important changes, among others. the possibility of granting aid for operations within the limits for a given year and the fact that the records assume that the handling of cases related inter alia. with payment of the aid will be transferred from the county offices to the regional branches. The amendment also harmonises the procedure for verifying the legal title of the farmer to the ground. The Act proposes that farmers submit applications for payments, inter alia. direct payments and payments of LFAs - for areas with natural constraints or other specific constraints - on a single form within the same period. An important scope of the amendments laid down in the Act concerns agricultural advice. The draft law assumes that an agricultural adviser can obtain specific specialisations and use them through targeted and specialised assistance dedicated to the beneficiaries of the scheme. Changes have also been proposed to take into account the training course and the opinion of the examination in the field of the specialisation concerned. At the first reading of the Act held today in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, matters related to the addition of knowledge by advisers raised the most controversy. The Act lacks clear provisions on the formula for the acquisition of new knowledge by advisers. I agree with those who have doubts that a specialist advisor should supplement his knowledge in accordance with clearly defined guidelines. However, I hope that the principles and career paths of the advisors developed by the Ministry will be quickly implemented. Following the recommendation of the committee and the idea of the law, which simplifies and harmonises the procedures to which Polish farmers must be subject, the Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the law be further processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u502	Thank you, Member. I would like to inform you that three Members have signed up to ask questions. If there are no more interested persons, I close the list of those who are enrolled in the questions. Question time - one and a half minutes. Please, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture has the appropriate staff to implement the 2014 Isn't that going to lead to over-regulation in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and another job in this particular project? Here is my only fear. I'm asking you to answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u504	Thank you, sir. And Mr Stefan Romecki, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! Question: Why did the choice of the entity responsible for the implementation of the project be abandoned under public procurement rules? Isn't this gonna be the pathology of the guy during the project? Does the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture have qualified staff to carry out the project smoothly? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u506	Thank you. And Mr Leszek Korzeniowski, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u507	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In relation to what I said earlier - it is allowed to select people who, without being employed in a implementing entity, will carry out a substantive evaluation of the operation. How will these people be employed? Will this take place, as in many cases preferred by the Law and Justice, by appointment or appointment, or by a competition that would be far more just? Maybe the word "righteous" is quite wrong. Second question, about what my friend said in front of me. According to art. 43 a limitation of the contractor's task has been introduced to entities which are not personal or equity-related. On the one hand, it may be right and good, but on the other hand it causes some kind of limitation of certain elements that the beneficiary could benefit from, such as the lowest price or any other. To what extent will this affect the outcome considered... on the outcome of the evaluation? What will the evaluators be guided by? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u508	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Richard Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for the information you have provided earlier and for so many warm words to this law, and we are proceeding with the amendment of the law on support for rural development with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period. The most important changes or design... I will say this: above all, the proposed amendment aims at simplifying the beneficiaries of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020, but its second basic objective is to accelerate, increase the effectiveness of spending from this programme, and to harmonise the rules due to the similar nature of the implementation of the instruments. These changes relate to the implementation of the provisions adopted by the Council of Ministers in the framework of the plan to increase efficiency and speed up the implementation of the programme under the Partnership Agreement in the years 2014-2020, which results in... This is led by the Ministry of Development - we are talking about the whole partnership agreement, about operational programmes - as one of the operational programmes. It is a more effective and more effective issue of these measures, and that is also the purpose of this revision of the law. In particular, the proposed law proposes provisions under which... Here I would like to present these most important points, also referring to the questions that have been asked. I will say this: it is a law that we have been working on for nearly 7 months, it was built along with the implementation of further activities of the RDP, the launch of the Rural Development Programme, resulting from successive recruitments, from further experiences and from the ordering of certain things. This is not only a technical law - it will be very detailed - in particular, it organises technical assistance issues, I draw attention to this, the functioning of the national rural development network, as well as the transfer of knowledge and information, i.e. the transfer of funds to advise on the most important issues. Firstly, the proposed law proposes provisions whereby the tasks relating to the implementation of the "Knowledge Transfer" action and information activities, as already stated, Why is change important? Because constant appeals, disputes, transfers would block the implementation of this. The transfer of this to the restructuring agency is very tidy. We are launching this, this is clear and will not block the implementation of this action, which is also the result of previous experience with the operation of the programme in the period 2007-2013, as I am convinced. Second thing. The proposed law, provisions having the power to provide for the possibility of granting aid for operations in the event of exhaustion of funds. It shall be exhausted from the action concerned within the limits of the appropriations for the year concerned. In the case of e.g. actions: Leader within the limits of the resources set for a given recruitment ends, but the courts and various other procedures say that these funds must be transferred because they have not been wrongly awarded. Therefore, he has so far paid the state budget, and here we are talking about moving it from funds and securing it. You couldn't run it, but now you can. I think that these are not just court cases, but various cases that are related to the fact that the limit has been exhausted and that it is due, wrongly not granted, i.e. The beneficiary appealed to the court and won. Third case. Support for cases relating to the granting and payment of aid and the implementation of multiannual commitments under sub-measures. I would remind you that the Rural Development Programme is 12 types of operations, 32 sub-types and 45, 40 sub-measures, 32 sub-actions and 42 types of operations, so here we are talking about two: young farmer and start-up aid for small farms. It is about these multi-annual payments, because we know that we have to pay the part of the business plan first and then after the business plan has been settled. That's why we're talking about years. I will be transferred from the county offices handling these cases, from the county offices to the regional departments. We found this to be more meaningful and more functional. From the county offices we move small farms and young farmers to regional branches. After analyzing, after discussing what's so tidy about... I think here the decisions are, these decisions are justified. Fourth thing. Rules on competitive procedures for the selection of economic operators will be laid down in accordance with the rules currently laid down in the grant agreements concluded with the beneficiaries and the rules relating to this procedure during the transitional period, i.e. until the restructuring agency launches the relevant website. It's about... So far it has been so that three competitive, selected offers had to be presented, and now there is a need here and as if the need for a website for... There's gonna be a page. This is also a requirement for the European Commission to make a change in order so that this competitiveness can be emphasized even more, because there were these agreements, and still later in implementation, everyone chose what they wanted, and here was a problem, and the website will arrange it, as well as creating transitional rules. Fifth case. The agricultural advisor will be able to obtain specific specialisations so that the applicant and the beneficiary of the 2014-2020 development programme can obtain more targeted specialised assistance. This is such a point of order for advice, for the functioning of counseling, this is a point of order for career matters, as well as the financial status of advisors. It was already raised here. These are the three specializations mentioned: organic farming, entrepreneurship and the economics of farms. It was raised by each speaker to... This is another element for the effective functioning of advice, so that the transfer of knowledge and the whole change in its functioning in relation to the change of subordinates makes such a deeper sense and is also a step in ordering and better handling of the programme, as well as the functioning of advice and better handling of farmers, which we all care about. It's still point six, so fundamental. These changes, such a holistic, are 23 detailed. I discuss only the most important of them in a group. There are several of them, but here they are the most important in their overall assumption. At the level of the law, the basic uniform rules for the selection of operations, the partners of the National Rural Network and the transfer of public funds to them in connection with the implementation of the programme will be regulated. This is not just about the National Rural Network, the so-called "National Rural Network." KSOW, but also for the functioning of technical assistance, the functioning of partners and the announcement of competitions. Here was the biggest, one of the biggest problems after implementation this year and so far we still have problems with it, we are struggling with this for months due to not the best legal setting of the functioning of the National Rural Network, the choice. You even had to block some of the competitions that were announced a year ago, because they consumed the entire call for all years with one call. So there was a problem here, if I may say so gently, and now we're trying to sort it out. This is a rather detailed matter and quite a lot of detailed solutions must be registered by law. Therefore, this work on the bill continued and was quite exhausting, including on ordering technical assistance. Point 7 is related to the codification of the provisions of the amendment to the Act and the Act of 5 February 2015 on payments under direct support schemes by introducing provisions enabling investments in forest development and improving the viability of forests in terms of annual premiums and area actions, amending the decision to grant aid without the agreement of the party in the event of certain conditions and conditions of the party concerned. Such a sequencing, technical change, missing piece of adjustment. Point eight of this basic thing, the basic thing, and these points passed on, i.e. provisions on the implementation of the ONW payments and direct payments as regards the deadline for verifying the ownership of the legal title in the agricultural area falling within the ONW areas of the Treasury Agricultural Property Resource will be harmonised. It is a legal title because of the law that was previously filed, the invasions and the legal title as at 31 May. And here it moves to agri-environment programmes, not only the ONW, agri-environment-climate. Thank you for this amendment, because it sorts out issues related to the legal title and the legal possibility of transferring payment appropriations to 1 ha under Pillar II, so the ONW and the environmental programme, organic farming, agri-environment programmes. In this context, this amendment, which has been tabled, concerns the clarification of the Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Law of 7 March 2007 on rural development, but of the RDP 2007, ordering this point, which I said at the end, i.e. payments up to 1 ha of the second pillar related to having a legal title as at 31 May of the year concerned. It's about having a legal title. These are ordering and detailed information, justifications. Tomorrow is planned as far as I know, the committee. We will present our reference to this amendment in the committee. As regards the questions that have been raised, why appoint new, additional workers. Let me remind you that with regard to the implementation of the Rural Development Programme, we are completing this whole implementation process, there are still a few actions left in the new year. Especially small farms and a bonus for young farmers, as well as the start-up, i.e. such an annual cycle. From next year there will be a full start of the development programme, which will raise the conclusions - there may be too many of them in relation to the ability of employees to process it. It therefore appears justified to safeguard the possibility of additional employment of workers in order to facilitate this so that farmers can obtain funds in time and in time and that all deadlines relating to the processing of individual types of operations and resulting from the obligations to work on the timely completion of contracts and the implementation of individual actions are met. So much for me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u510	Thank you, Minister. Mr Mieczysław Miazga, rapporteur of the committee, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u511	Thank you very much to the Minister for the very good preparation of the bill, as well as to the representatives of the Ministry and agricultural agencies. All clubs, as we've heard, support the bill, which rarely happens. Thank you so much for this to all the clubs. There were few questions, the Minister answered them in detail. The proposed law will contribute to a more efficient use and spending of funds, which will generally benefit rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u512	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws (prints no. 966 and 1008). I ask Mr Michał Dworczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u513	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the report of the National Defence Committee on the government draft law amending the law on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and some other laws, print No. 966. The Sejm at its meeting on 3 November in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure submitted a draft law amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws to the Committee on National Defence for consideration. Let us remind you that the Act provides for the creation of a fifth type of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, the Territorial Defence Army, and the appointment of a commander to carry out his duties with the help of the Military Command of Territorial Defence. The most important reason for establishing the Territorial Defence Army is the change in the geopolitical and strategic situation of Poland. The attack of the Russian Federation on Ukraine is a strong proof that the situation in our part of the world is not as stable as we have assumed until recently, and consequently the modernization and development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland is particularly important and urgent. The creation of the Territorial Defence Army gives the opportunity to substantially increase in a short time the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland with troops of over 50,000. soldiers, soldiers, which should be emphasized, not only well trained and equipped, but also characterized by high idealism and determination to take up service. Therefore, speaking of the amended law, it should be said that today we are talking about a document which is fundamentally important from the point of view of the security of the Polish state. The National Defence Commission was sitting yesterday, i.e. November 14th. Eight legislative amendments were tabled during the meeting, which were accepted and included in the report by the Committee on National Defence, print No 1008. Five substantive amendments were tabled, two of which were accepted by the committee and included in the report. The first concerned the approval of further participation of a soldier in non-governmental organisations, and the second concerned the possibility of transferring an OT soldier only within the Territorial Defence Army. Three amendments were rejected. One of them was reported as a minority request. The Committee on National Defence after considering this project at its meeting on 14 November this year. asks the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u514	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Jach, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u515	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws, prints no. 996 and 1008. In the last 3 years, there has been rapid changes in the geopolitical situation, and this is in the direction of a significant increase in the risks so far often unpredictable. Due to the deteriorating situation in our region of Europe, Poland faced a dilemma in how to increase the state's defence potential in a relatively short period of time. The fact that Poland needs to strengthen this potential is probably obvious even for pacifists. The simplest, relatively inexpensive solution and, most importantly, the fastest to be achieved, is the establishment of a Territorial Defence Army, all the more so because there is great popularity in society, especially among young people, pro-defense behaviour. The management of the Ministry of National Defence immediately after taking over power decided to organize a new type of army, the Territorial Defence Army. It seemed that this idea would gain support among all the political forces in Parliament. I would like to believe that everyone in this Chamber wants a sovereign and strong Republic, and that is why I present such conviction here. Unfortunately, the debate on the contested law focused not on the formal assessment of the proposed solutions, but on the very idea of establishing a Territorial Defence Army. Representatives of some of the opposition tried to focus the debate on the imaginary objectives of organised territorial defence and alleged threats to a democratic state. No arguments were and are not in a position to change these arguments. Law and Justice believes that the Territorial Defence Army will significantly increase the dissuade power of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The draft law submitted optimally responds to the growing uncertainty about future military threats in our region. We want to assure our fellow countrymen that the Territorial Defence Army will increase the defence potential of Poland, and the training system of territorial defence soldiers will increase awareness of the responsibility of citizens for the security of the state and patriotism, especially among young people who will build the future of the Republic in a few years. Mr. Marshal! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the bill submitted on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u516	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Caesar Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u517	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There have been many questions about territorial defence, but there are no answers from the Minister. When questions are asked, you talk about numbers, about specific voivodships, about brigades, but we don't ask that, it's all in the papers. We ask about training, we ask about supervision, and we ask about apoliticity. The Lord responds once again by presenting numbers and specific places, only this is a bit like the mistral, not everything is correct. You said there'd be 35,000 territorial defense soldiers, now there's a total of 53,000, so the numbers switched by chance, or was it a mistake in the lyric editor? Or is it the same with your supervision and apoliticity? Maybe it's also the case that politics will fall out of politics and there will be only politics left. Today we have prepared a specific test for the Minister. There are two amendments to this test. The first amendment concerns supervision, the second amendment concerns apoliticality. I am surprised that, with regard to the first amendment and supervision, the Minister himself did not come up with this idea, because many of the arguments which are coming from the opposition here, from the members of the committee, could be avoided, if not Minister Macierewicz would be the overseer of this 53 or 54 thousandth formation, but the general commander. Our amendment is moving in this direction to take this competence away from Minister Macierewicz and direct it to where it should be, i.e. to General Command. The second amendment concerns apoliticity, precisely because of the fact that the word "politicity" does not fall out to you. It's not just about ONR, it's not just about radical right-wing organizations. You said, moreover, it is in the bill, it is in the justification that pro-defense organisations will have priority, that members of the shooting movements will be able to approach territorial defence as if out of order. And I agree that there are many great people among the shooting units, many great patriots. Yeah, that's right. And I'll say it again: I trust them a lot, but I don't trust you. I know a lot of people who belong to shooting organizations. I have a very good opinion about many of them. But there are other shooting organizations. There's an organization -- I'd like you to refer to it -- which is called the Shooter Unit 2039. It includes, attention, members of the Falanga and activists of the Pro-Russian Change Party. As the OKO says. Press, however, the local military supplemental committee asked the Sagittarius Unit 2039 to name the members to put them on the list of candidates for the Territorial Defence Army. Not much, the Military Property Agency lent this unit a property on the street. Rydel in Cracow. Coincidence? Why do these cases, by any chance, accumulate in your hands? Why are there so many cases when we talk about territorial defence? I could, of course, talk about the arguments I raised earlier. I could talk about Specnaz, I could talk about the unclear tasks described by your Deputy Minister Szatkowski. What's the point? This project is unthinkable, it's bad, it's based on politics, not politics. Indeed, it is such an irrefutable impression that you draw more patterns not from the West, but from the East. And I'm going to ask you one more time, is that a coincidence? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Corrections, Mr. Marshal, we will report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u518	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Maria Sarkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u519	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland today is actually facing a great opportunity, an opportunity to become invincible, because it is the investment in its own deterrent capacity that can ensure Poland's invincibility, not counting on allied forces, which are in fact always a supporting element. The key to building this invincibility is to build territorial defence based on the general public's participation in defending their own region. With regard to the provisions of the Act, let me briefly say: territorial defence must arise, and it is good that it arises, but unfortunately I have concerns about this universality. Did the state, when designing the provisions of this law, really ensure universality? Unfortunately, universal military training is not introduced by this law. Second thing. It didn't go ahead of the bill. Unfortunately, also reform of the management and command system. As a result, we're dealing with a situation where... On the one hand, it is good that the commander of the Territorial Defence Army was aligned with the commanders of the operational troops, because it should be so, should be separate components, but it was directly subordinated to the Minister of National Defence, which is dangerous in a situation where such a system would be established, as if it were a permanent solution. Why? Because it will be the Minister of National Defence who will personally be affected in a situation of threat or during the war by the need for coordination between operational troops and territorial defence. But I hope, in line with the declarations of the ruling party, that this is a transitional situation and that the reform of the management and command system that is being announced will ensure that it is actually coordinated by a military body, e.g. General Staff. That's another line. Unfortunately, we also did not get an answer to the question whether and how the territorial chain of command will be organised. As we know, ladies and gentlemen, military districts have been eliminated, namely those elements of the territorial command system that the district commander has been connecting, holding in his hands, commanding both operational troops, territorial defence, police and other uniformed services. Today you don't really know how it's gonna be organized. Another very important issue is the definition of the proper definition of territorial defence tasks. Unfortunately, the proposed legislation lacked a definition of the scope of operation of the Commander of the Territorial Defence Forces, such as the fundamental tasks of territorial defence, of course protection and defence of critical infrastructure, protection and defence of the population, as well as cooperation with operational troops. On the other hand, our amendment, of course, solves this problem, this lack complements it. I hope that the rulers will accept and eventually accept the request of the minority that we have submitted. Another point I would like to raise here is, unfortunately, not to exploit this potential of pro-defence organisations, or at least not to use it to the extent that this could be achieved. It is, of course, a matter of rejecting any provision allowing pro-defence organisations to be certified and troops to enter the entire territorial defence system, or to assign certain elements of training to pro-defence organisations, basic training for territorial defence purposes. And this is where the question arises: How, in a situation where today's training centers are definitely inefficient, because they are built for the needs of these limited, expeditionary operational troops, we intend to train, today it is already designed, 53 thousand. soldiers, and I hope, I smile at the Civic Platform, that there will really be more of them, because territorial defence requires that these are forces that are able to fulfil all tasks throughout the country, and not just in the chosen area. [[The only problem is, the minister doesn't know how much.]] The next thing you know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which I wanted to draw attention to is cooperation with the government and local government administration, which was also not sufficiently included in the project. However, Kukiz15 will ultimately support this draft law, because territorial defence must not be blocked, because this is a fundamental issue...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u520	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u521	...from the point of view of Polish national security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u522	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Cyranski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u523	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to point out that the Modern Club supports the idea of civil engagement in the field of defence of the country. It is a noble idea and well known in many other countries. Unfortunately, we cannot support this project in the proposed form, because we are afraid of the consequences it will have for Polish defence after its entry into force. I understand that in this form the formation of the Territorial Defence Army is an author's project of the Minister of National Defence, a project that no one should and cannot criticize. It is right that these armies should be mass, but the argument that they are good, because cheap, contradicts today's battlefield. I've already told you that the Territorial Defence Army can't be a temporary agency. Splitting into better and worse soldiers of the Polish army will not raise morale of those serving as professional soldiers. We are afraid that creating a Territorial Defence Army in this form and talking about them as key for Polish defence is some free jokes or smoke screen for Poles. For Polish defence, the key should be: modernization of the Polish army, specialized training of soldiers and alliances. Therefore, we cannot allow Polish citizens to blind themselves to the fact that, thanks to the Territorial Defence Forces, they will become safer. Despite my questions, where did the money come from to create a new military formation... [[Voice from the hall: From the caracali.]] ...the answer was always the same: we have money. What about the decline in gross domestic product growth and fewer defence funds? In addition, a clear document on the use of the Territorial Defence Army was created under this law. I proposed that these principles be included in the proposed law. It remained so that they could be freely amended by the Minister's regulation. Nowadays, in the age of new technologies, it seems reasonable To call a procedated project nothing more than buying voters' votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to do this at the expense of the Polish army. Moreover, during the work of the National Defence Committee, it was often possible to hear about the value of pro-defence organisations. Here you could agree, if not that this appreciation will take place at the expense of a professional soldier of the Polish Army. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u524	Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u525	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Just like my friend from the club. Modern has already said, we believe that territorial defence is needed for many reasons, including. because a rational state should use citizens' initiative where they can bring some added value. In the case of territorial defence, these are some kind of patriotic ambitions which, well used by the State, can help in this effort which the Polish State is undertaking for defence. Of course, the possibility of fulfilling patriotic ambitions is important, but today we see that the first enrollment to this new formation takes place - from where? - from the Pro-Russian Change Party. It doesn't look good at the beginning of a project like this. This project should be serious, responsible and be part of the defensive doctrine of Poland. He should be thoroughly discussed. Unfortunately, you treat this project in the same way as any other project, i.e. they let it into a sejm machine, one, the other committee, the first, the second, the third reading, and probably soon this project will be adopted without a moment of reflection, without a moment of deeper debate, without hearing the opinions of other parliamentary clubs. You don't want a consensus. And this is very important from the point of view of your project's security. Unfortunately, again, you have treated him absolutely politically. Territorial defence should have assigned tasks appropriate to the potential it can generate. Unfortunately, it turns out that during this brief discussion, the Minister presented alarming ideas on how to use territorial defence. In fact, this project is a political project that only results from the fact that the Law and Justice want to please a particular group of voters. A year of your work, Minister, has shown that you [[♪ The bell ♪]] words and your actions must be treated with distance. That is why we do not believe that the territorial defence project is important for defence. We believe that this is a political project. We therefore apply for the rejection of this draft law at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u526	Please take the floor of Mr Paul Beda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u527	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The current government has an amazing ability to distribute public money. Today, we hear about the program "500 + rifles." [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The Ministry of National Defence assumes the creation of a fifth type of armed force, add, trained in weekend mode. The first question that arises is the question of defence potential. As we read, initial training in territorial defense is to last 16 days, after which you become a volunteer soldier. Let us not be enchanted, in the event of any armed conflict with foreign forces, the territorial defence forces will simply be blown out. Second case, quantity versus quality. North Korea has a large army, but the question remains whether the number of soldiers goes hand in hand with military potential. [[Very good.]] The Minister wants the new structure to be subject to directly to him and it was more numerous than it was supposed to be, and it counted even more than 50,000. People. Isn't it better to reduce their numbers and train them better, especially since, in fact, during the war, territorial defence will play a supportive role rather than a strict defence? According to former Head of BBN General Stanisław Koziej, these soldiers should be part of the mobilization reserves appointed to the service during the war as a form of support for rapid mobilization. Professional troops do not imagine that such individuals could take part in regular battles. They treat territorial defense as support that will cost us dearly. It is 500 PLN and more per month - it is written in the act that it is a kind of encouragement to urgent service and to honour the soldiers of territorial defence. The budget of the Ministry of National Defence is currently about PLN 36 billion. Even though it's a big budget, it's not a bottomless bag. By increasing the military subsidy, it will necessarily be necessary to reduce some costs, and it will certainly not be a reduction in the form of fewer officials, which has been so loudly announced, because their number has increased in relation to the previous government and was to decrease. The State will bear the costs associated not only with the payment of several hundred zlotys to each soldier of territorial defence, but also with the adaptation of the infrastructure to the storage of weapons in each county. This will not only be personal weapons, so you will not be able to fully use existing warehouses located in police headquarters buildings, but you will need to transform buildings or build new ones from scratch. If the Territorial Defence Forces are made up of volunteers, then all those who wish to help and serve others with full consecration should be rewarded in the same way. I am referring here to volunteer firefighters who, compared to the soldiers of the territorial defense, receive ridiculous money for real endangering their lives. There's no one on the O.R. heard to get the money for just being ready, and we know that firefighters are on standby 24 hours a day. There can't be a situation where someone gets money for just being ready and training, and the other one, actually helping, gets pennies for it. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 32 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is written that everyone is equal to the law, everyone has the right to equal treatment by public authorities and no one can be discriminated against in political, social or economic life for any reason. This provision of the Constitution should be based on power and treat everyone equally, not try to pull people for 500 PLN per month to their side and use them for their political games. Defence-related work so far, e.g. purchase of helicopters for the Polish Army, they go in haste, unlike the creation of the Territorial Defence Army. It is a really big reform and it is not advisable to spend billions of zlotys rashly on projects created on the knee, additionally at this rate. Minister, the rush is good for catching fleas. The Ministry of National Defence should now focus on creating a system, e.g. a missile defense system that can give us actual, not just theoretical, defense on paper. The idea of creating such a formation is not a novelty in Poland. Formally, such formations were started in the 1960s, but this idea did not work. Even then, there was a problem with the weapons and equipment of such a large number of units. History goes round and round, and we can't allow taxpayers' money to be wasted. Polish People's Party Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] will make the following amendments: the first amendment concerns the fact that there must be a clear statement that the Territorial Defence Forces cannot be used against the Poles and Poles, the second amendment concerns the fact that the draft law explicitly states that the Territorial Defence Forces are subject to the General Command of the Armed Forces. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't make any sense. You gotta think a little bit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u528	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u529	Mr. Marshal, your hands are on the patch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u530	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u531	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws, prints no. 966 and 1008. The Free and Solidarni Circle welcomes the initiative to build the Territorial Defence Army. In our view, this is an appropriate, strategic response to the exposure of military risks to the eastern direction. In the current geopolitical situation of the Republic of Poland, the only relatively fast, cheap and effective way to rebuild our military security is by appealing to the defensive potential of society. We are convinced of the operational capabilities of the Territorial Defence Army in carrying out anti-crisis and anti-terrorism activities, but above all, in our view, the Territorial Defence Army should become a key element of the country's defence system capable of carrying out technologically advanced military activities, alone and in cooperating with other military formations. In this context, it should be regarded as a legitimate minority amendment tabled by Ms Anna Maria Siarkowska, which extends the scope of the Commander of the Territorial Defence Army's operation by, quote: "executing tasks related to the participation of troops and divisions of the Territorial Defence Forces in the conduct of local protection and defence, protection and defence of strategic areas and facilities, and creating conditions for maneuvering and attacking the operational forces of their own and allies.' We also believe that the Territorial Defence Army system should be fully integrated into public administration systems for crisis management and public security and cooperate with all non-governmental organisations and be a fully professional formation based on local communities capable of taking on the most serious defence tasks. The latter aspect of local cooperation is extremely important, as we are currently dealing with new threats and ways of fighting in the world, e.g. Hybrid wars. At the same time, technological development makes the management of distributed systems based on online tools extremely efficient. Let me remind you that in the defence strategies of advanced countries there is a radical transformation in military techniques, e.g. The US arms program launched in 1999 strongly prefers unmanned aerial systems, i.e. drones. It is to be welcomed that similar initiatives have been taken by the Minister of National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz. They should be commended. The actions taken confirm that Minister Macierewicz sees a new paradigm of defence based on theory and practice of developing dynamically dispersed military systems. They are based on remotely controlled automation and advanced IT technology. Territorial defence is becoming an essential link to such a modern defence system, and in this direction the country's defensive doctrine should be developed in order to obtain the maximum effect of repelling the potential aggressor in a minimal and short period of time. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle will vote in favour of the bill submitted and the amendment of minorities tabled by the National Defence Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u532	You're welcome. You asked for the floor of Minister Antoni Macierewicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u533	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the Members who have spoken, but in particular the Members of the Law and Justice... [[Coincidence?]] ...and this is not a coincidence, Mrs Sarkowska, whose competence [[Applause]] and the pursuit of action for the good of the country are repeatedly, also this time, confirmed, thank you, of course, to the Free and Solidarnia Circle. But, as I say, I would like to thank all Members, of course, for their speeches. For the first time, there have been elements of some reasonableness in the statements of Members who have so far... [[Worse yet, they didn't show up at the ministry.]] ...focused on finding arguments... [[Please return the favor.]] ...to question at all costs the possibility of establishing a Territorial Defence Army. This remains in some statements, but not in all, and this is a step in the right direction. Thank you very much for this, and I am very happy for you. However, it remained, and that is why I allowed myself to speak, dramatic incompetence or lack of awareness of what is being done. I would like to make a clear statement on this. All those countries who think that the Territorial Defence Army because, like other types of Armed Forces, they will be subordinated to the Minister of National Defence, who think that eliminating this record will solve your problem, which could be called Macierewiczowobia - I inform you that it is not. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You would have to change the constitution and basic laws related to the structure of the army of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, by eliminating the surrender of the Minister of National Defence of these troops as a kind of Armed Forces, you are only attacking the President of the Republic. I'd like you to fully realize that. Because only thanks to the fact that the commander of territorial defence as a type of Armed Forces is placed at the level of the type of Armed Forces, it is only through this that the President appoints this commander. If we submit the Territorial Defence Army, as in your amendment, it is prepared, General Commander, then I inform you that then all the powers associated with your appointment are ceded to the Minister of National Defence. This is the structure of the Polish army and such are the laws. So make up your mind, 'cause maybe it's like... [[We've already decided.]] ...in fact, it's dudophobia, and you're masking it only with Macierewiczofobia. [[Whose?]] In fact, maybe you want to attack the President of the Republic, and I do not hide that there are grounds for actually believing that. Here are the Members of the Modern Club, who in many elements only imitates the Civic Platform... [[Voice from the hall: the Bear. Teddy bears.]] ...even though it doesn't. it formulates, wishes to repeal the article. 11 laws. This is in the amendment which she sent and signed by Mrs Lubnauer. So once again, they want to repeal the article. 11 laws. Let me read it, okay? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Art. 11th Act reads: The President of the Republic of Poland performs security and defence tasks with the help of the National Security Bureau (...), etc., etc. You want to take the President of the National Security Bureau? [[You have to say it's about the bill.]] Ladies and gentlemen, decide whether you really want to improve the Territorial Defense Act... [[He doesn't understand what you're saying.]] ...or do you really want to dismantle the Polish state by pointing directly at the president and his competences? [[Don't scare us, Minister.]] [[Voice from the hall: His must be feared.]] It's just ridiculous for people who... [[How can you think that?]] ...they once held high positions and were responsible for the security of the Polish state. [[And it was safe.]] [[A voice from the hall: The Lord does not understand a simple thing.]] It is true that your incompetence has led to disastrous consequences in the Polish army. I talked about this today in the context of the report this year, I think I have to repeat it: as a result, it was necessary to refer 350 requests to the prosecution to pursue incompetent people who allowed very negative consequences in the Polish army, so this is only confirmed in your relation to the territorial defence of the country. [[Voice from the room: Now it's perfect.]] The last thing I need to know about Mr. Tomczyk's statement. Tomczyka, I'm not wrong, am I? Good. While this first point, connected with the change of subjection, is clear, although it makes absolutely no sense, because it does not receive the Minister of Defence's national authority over territorial defence, it only strengthens it against your speech, the latter is completely pointless. I would very much like to meet you, [[Joy in the Chamber]] if the Member were to formulate his request for apoliticity in some meaningful provision. If you can strengthen apoliticality with a statutory record... [[People won't have a job.]] ...I'd love to do that. I would like to reiterate that the apoliticality of the soldiers, including those of the territorial defence, is fully guaranteed by the provisions of the existing laws, and they do not change under any circumstances. The same applies to the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army of the country as to the soldiers of the operational army. So make a specific note, then we can talk. Otherwise, all that remains is your complexes and your lack of knowledge about reality. I would like to inform you that among the 10,000. volunteers who have already volunteered for the Territorial Defence Army of the country, as they have so far said, have no... [[Teddy bears.]] [[There's no bill. How did they come forward?]] ...member of the party The change in question, but if you know such a case, I ask for detailed information... [[No kidding.]] I'm sure that's what we're gonna do. No member of the political party can perform military service, including military service in the Army for Territorial Defence of the country, I assure you, and there are no exceptions in this matter. I repeat: from the information I know, it appears that among the 10,000. The volunteers who volunteered, there are no members of the Change Party... [[What about associations?]] ...or any other person in your field of interest. [[Voice from the hall: What about associations?]] I understand that your attitude towards the Russian Federation recently, so to speak, has changed very radically, and I'm glad... [[Everyone's talking about their relationship.]] ...because it's nice to hear the patriotic talk. I inform you that all these terms are false, they are only meant to confuse citizens and possibly hinder the formation of the Territorial Defence Army of the country. [[ONR is an association.]] Finally, I would like to say once again, thanking Mrs Sarkowska, that you are actually right in many of your comments. Indeed, it would be better if this law also covered the issues that you were talking about, but not all at once, Commissioner. Let's go to the goal as more opportunities arise, and we will certainly come and I'm sure that together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u534	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode, my name came up.]] Here you go, one minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u535	Thank you for understanding. Mr. Marshal! Minister! You've referred to me several times, so I'd also like to have this opportunity. First of all, I'm glad you're talking about the elements of rationality on our part, and we're asking for reciprocity. We also ask for reciprocity in matters of truth, compliance with the law and non-destruction of the Polish army. Secondly, when it comes to the apoliticality of the army. These are constitutional rules. Minister, these rules in Polish law are already formulated in different places, so do not give the impression that you do not know this, unless you do not know it, then I understand. I'm glad you denied it, but the case is...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u536	Mr President, I am sorry, but you have asked for a correction, and you are conducting a controversy. Please proceed to the corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u537	No. These are the elements... [[Because the Minister misunderstood.]] ...because the Minister mentioned me several times in these elements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u538	Okay, but just because he mentioned you doesn't mean you have to abuse the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u539	Shooting squad... Mr. Marshal, 20 seconds. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] Shooter Unit 2039. As for the truth, it's a little bit like that if we're going to use what the Minister says, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. that the mistrals sailed in the Russian Federation, they were sold for... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u540	Thank you, sir. I'm sorry, but you abused the rules and abused my trust in this matter. [[Because he didn't say that the Minister...]] Please, let's get to the questions. Are the Members still interested in the question? If not, I'm closing the list of people who are saved for questions. Question time - one and a half minutes. [[Voice from the room: There's still...]] Well, add it up if he's still up for it. I'm closing the list of people who've been saved for questions. The first question is asked by Mrs Bożena Kaminska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u541	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I've asked this question many times, and I want to ask it again and again from here. Where will the funds come from to create and defend the territorial defence of the country? We know that there is an assumption of spending 3,600 million by 2019, and this is just the beginning. Minister, 3600 million zlotys don't come out of the air, so we're gonna have to take somebody away. Who are we gonna take? Retired people? Nurses? The army, with the funds for modernization? Expenditure on construction of OT, as you emphasize, does not interfere with the programme of modernization of the Polish army, but you seem to be missing the truth, because all tenders have been broken and the modernisation plan has been postponed in years. We have such a situation as: no helicopters, no anti-aircraft defense, because Vistula and Narew have been stopped, limited purchases of new Rosomacs, halting purchases of submarines. If the Polish army is to be as modernized in the years to come as this year, then unfortunately, but we have great fear, many citizens of this country, and in three years' time the Polish army will be in great ruins. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u542	I would like to ask Małgorzata Płępek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u543	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The formation of the Territorial Defence Army - created by this Act as the fifth type of armed forces, but independent generals - is a kind of building of a private army of Minister Macierewicz. It will undoubtedly be a political army, because it will be the head of the Ministry of National Defence who will have full control of it. Minister Macierewicz, you said that the troops of the Territorial Defence Army must be prepared in the form of special forces, but embedded in the local community. So is this supposed to be a citizen's army or - as many Poles ironize - commandos to the county? Specialists stress that the creation of the Territorial Defence Army will have a negative impact on the entire army and is very expensive. This is about PLN 4 billion by 2019. That is why we need to prepare ourselves for the creation of the Territorial Defence Army properly. In this connection, I have a question as to whether the Minister will give Poles the guarantee of the professionalism of the Territorial Defence Army and how the territorial chain of command will be organised. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u544	I ask you to ask Mr Paweł Szramka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u545	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The principle of establishing territorial defence is, of course, undisputed, which is why I am pleased that this subject has been taken up, although the law itself has several shortcomings. For example, in the framework of the existing territorial defence built on time, the reserves were allocated to soldiers with the aim of, among other things, mobilization allocations. protection of critical infrastructure. The Armed Forces Support Supervisor was responsible for these activities. What will happen to these assignments after the entry into force of the Act, and what will happen to the people who were assigned to these actions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u546	I would ask you to ask Mr Adam Cyranski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u547	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the explanatory memorandum to the Act it is accepted that within 3 years we will spend PLN 3.6 billion in territorial defence. I have a request to the Minister to give me in writing an answer, either openly or secretly, what the financial plan for territorial defence expenditure looks like, broken down by remuneration and weaponry, and this weaponry by type of weapon. The purpose of this question is simply that - I do not know if it will be in open mode - to find out how this army will be equipped. All we know from today's assumptions is that it's supposed to be new equipment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u548	Thank you. I would like to ask Anna Maria Siakovska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u549	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the size of the Territorial Defence Army, because it will be at least tens of thousands. soldiers. How will logistical security be provided for these territorial defence units? Will these be their own economic units, or will the logistical security of the designed Territorial Defence Forces be provided on the basis of WOG-i? This is a very important issue, because at present the WOGs are at the limit of their ability to act, they are overcrowded, and therefore it seems that they will not be able to meet the service of the next tens of thousands. soldiers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u550	Thank you, and I ask you to take the floor of Mr Paul Suski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u551	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you'll excuse me, I'm not going to ask the Minister a question because it doesn't make sense. On the other hand, using the...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u552	Sorry, sir, we're... [[Insolence, rudeness.]] ...at the point... We're asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u553	...in the debate, I'll take it. Of course, there's a debate. Mr. Marshal, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u554	Mr President, either you stick to the rules of procedure or I will take your vote away. Declarations... [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Is it true that the Minister is lying?]] ...mister, between the hours. 1 a 2 a.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u555	This isn't a statement. Please let me finish...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u556	Then please proceed to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u557	Let me finish my speech. [[That's rude.]] Territorial defence is, of course, an essential part of the defence infrastructure within the Armed Forces. This is a good idea, which was also implemented in the last term by the Minister of Defence of the National Civic Platform. It's a good idea, provided it's not a political or ideological tool in your hands, not exactly... I'm not gonna finish. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The essence of this is that this formation is well embedded in the Armed Forces. My greatest doubts are the intention to exclude territorial defence from the chain of command with the result simply of the lack of horizontal dependency. I didn't get the answer to the question at first reading, Mr. Minister, which is why, Mr. Marshal, I'm not asking the question: What will be the horizontal subordinate of the territorial defence commander, the territorial defence forces in relation to the commanders? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The types of Armed Forces? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u558	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u559	Mr. Marshal, you interrupted me...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u560	Thank you, sir. [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]] I would like to ask the question of Mr Caesar Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u561	Will you let me finish?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u562	Declarations between hours 1 a 2 a.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u563	These aren't statements. [[Applause, joy in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u564	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the question of Mr Caesar Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u565	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is clear that the Minister's submission to the Territorial Defence Army is in no doubt. You yourself, in the previous sitting, when we first debated the draft submitted, paid attention to this obviousness. That's why the Poles are wondering where you decide to use the Territorial Defence Army. Part of the answer is found in the law that we are debating, but there are clear links between this act and the Crisis Management Act, because the Territorial Defence Army will also be used in such situations. Therefore, I ask you to answer: In what situations will you decide to use these troops? Do you realize that, in certain situations, control over these troops will slip out of your hands? Once you've given the voivodships the units at their disposal, they'll be in control of these units, and that'll be the dominion of the Minister of Interior and Administration. And one last question. What role did the Minister foresee? [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the Territorial Defence Army for Bartłomiej Misiewicz? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u566	I would ask you to ask Mr Czesław Mroczek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u567	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As far as the Territorial Defence Army is concerned, we are saying yes, but as far as the absurdity of the implementation of these troops is concerned, we are saying no. It is clearly necessary to say today that this is a fundamental bill by referring to the club's speech by Members of Law and Justice. It is clearly necessary to say: yes, this is an extremely important law from the point of view of the Armed Forces system - a law which interrupts the process of building professional Armed Forces in Poland. She will cause great damage, long years of damage to Poland's defence. We are building scattered forces with little military potential, which will unfortunately consume huge money. For the first time in many years in Poland, instead of components of the Armed Forces, we build command. 17 brigades, 17 commanders in Poland, companies in every district - we have not dealt with such a waste of resources over many, many, many years. It must be made clear that this project, apart from buying a certain favor, as it has already been mentioned here, we are buying, I mean Minister Macierewicz is trying to convince Poles that in fact we are increasing the Armed Forces by 50,000, and he is trying to build such a belief that this is precisely the fighting potential. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 50,000. soldiers who will serve 2 days a month...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u568	Thank you, sir. Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u569	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. The absurdities of this concept are: no. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u570	Thank you. And I would ask Mr Stefan Romecki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u571	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question: Are there plans to set up training centres, both at national level and at the level of the brigade, for the Territorial Defence Army? I have information that the current centers are unable to accommodate another few thousand soldiers. I myself served in the army, in basic military service, and I have some knowledge of the army. I've served for two years and I know something about the army. As I hear some fellow Members say here, I do not know whether they know it from books or from newspapers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u572	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u573	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the storage of equipment and weapons, because, as we know, there will be a problem with that. The police said they wouldn't be able to store that equipment or weapons. The question is, would volunteer firefighters be able and able to engage them... Could these weapons and these equipment be stored in volunteer firefighters... [[Voice from the hall: This is the hall where the parties take place.]] ...in units of volunteer guards, because there are a lot of them all over Poland? Do you think of such an eventuality? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u574	I would ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u575	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The creation of the Territorial Defence Army, a new, independent type of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, as you can see, in the environment of our actions, Members, meets with great interest. This will be used to rebuild our military security. Many young people, currently engaged in various pro-defence organisations, who have modeled military formations, will aspire to join the Territorial Defence Army. Therefore, I wanted to ask about a practical aspect of the matter, young people ask. The principle of this service would be as little as possible to disrupt the way of life of those concerned, including working life. On the other hand, this is different for individuals. Some working today must be available in their workplaces, also on weekends, and are afraid, having a desire to aspire to WOTs, that the employer will frown at their involvement, will want to release them from work. Will such workers be protected from possible restrictions on employers, or should they give up their aspirations to join the WOTs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u576	Thank you. And Mr Piotr Cieślinski, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u577	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The creators of the concept of the Territorial Defence Army on the one hand pretend that it will be used for ancillary tasks, and on the other hand openly acknowledge that territorial defence is to have the capacity to carry out typical military activities. How, then, is territorial defence to be compatible with the Armed Forces, since you are creating for it a separate command directly and exclusively subordinate to the Minister of National Defence? Is it directly Minister Macierewicz who will lead the army in case of aggression? [[Voice from the hall: On a white horse.]] Maybe in your boldness, in your enlightened minds, you should also introduce such a solution. Is this supposed to be the de facto army of Antoni Macierewicz? That's the basic question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u578	I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u579	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister had just spoken here, very flowerly speaking, with unwavering certainty, about all the things we had the opportunity to hear. But, ladies and gentlemen, please don't let this fool you, because the Minister tends to respond in a flowery, very colorful way, to speak during the debate, but he also talked about the mistrals that should be flying the Russian flag, and they stand still where they came from France. So, Minister, don't be surprised that to your declaration, to your information Poles approach with a long distance. All the more so, therefore, the High House must approach at such a distance, because you have repeatedly misled the High House and you must not forget this. I've got a lot of distance to that, too. And, Minister, more information about the concrete, more substantive discussion, more listening to the good ideas of the opposition, and I think we will reach consensus then. On the other hand, I would like to ask you a question about counterintelligence protection. Will each member, each candidate, be X-rayed in this respect by our services? Is this going to be standard procedure? I understand that this may not be a question that can be answered in such a public debate, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, in the appropriate formula in writing, please give such an answer, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u580	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u581	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question to the Minister: Minister, are you sure this is thought out? Or a vocation of 50,000. Very poorly trained amateurs actually increase our safety? Whether the funds that will be spent on wages for them, on readiness, on the 3 billion that are spent in the first round, or if these funds were not intended for the arming of the current professional army, even for an increase, because indeed the international situation is that we can consider whether or not to increase the number of Polish Armed Forces... Isn't it better to increase it by 10,000, but a well-trained army, professional soldiers who will be perfectly armed and trained? Isn't that a responsible action? And you're calling 50,000. people who, as we hear in their statements, will be trained by the commandos within 2 weeks and will be the first to face the specnaz. You know, if I hear something like that, it's like someone sent these people to die because if you want to send soldiers after 2 weeks of training against a specnaz who fought in Chechnya, who was fighting in Donbass or at the moment fighting in Syria, it's crazy, you can't call it any other way than madness. So think about it, because I really don't think that kind of idea should come up at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The Member of Madness tells the story.]] [[Those were the Minister's words, come to the committee.]] [[You're not just sitting there, you're talking nonsense.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u582	I would like to ask Mrs Magdalena Blenska for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u583	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns the documents which the Ministry forwarded to Members at the meeting of the Sub-Committee on Territorial Defence. These documents are assigned to the Territorial Defence Forces, among others. the tasks of protecting critical infrastructure facilities. It's about bridges, power plants, water shots, airports, etc. My question concerns the number of facilities of this critical infrastructure and the planned number of soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army. Will the 53,000 soldiers, as planned, even be able to defend, protect these critical infrastructure facilities? It seems to me that this is a very low number of soldiers in relation to these objects, and this task can be, from the outset, simply impossible. Because I have some more time, I'm gonna ask you a second question. Why is the territorial defence command being built at the level of the brigade, even though, as we well know, the territorial defence forces do not operate at the level of the brigade, only at the level of the battalion or at the level of the battalion group? Command at brigade level is a very expensive solution. So the question is why this solution was chosen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u584	Thank you. And Mr Michael Yacha, I ask you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u585	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have three questions. Minister, the previous Members spoke about how the Territorial Defence Army was being developed during the previous term of office. I have a question for you. Have the previous two terms conducted any territorial defence exercises, not necessarily with the appointment of this soldier, but even with the command post or just the staff exercise, any? Has there been any training of these territorial defence soldiers? Have representatives of territorial defence ever participated in any kind of crisis prevention exercises organised by the state administration in the last 8 years? There is talk of great expenditure, about reducing the possibility of financing the Polish Armed Forces, where we will spend PLN 3.6 billion for 3 years in territorial defence. Is it true, Minister, that in the previous eight years the Ministry of National Defence, led by the Civic Platform, did not spend 12 billion PLN from the funds allocated to them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It didn't waste, it's true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u586	Thank you, sir. On this we have exhausted the list of those who have been put to the vote, so please take the floor of the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u587	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Forgive me if I don't answer all the questions, it's not even about the state secret. Perhaps I will ignore one of them in this answer, but there will certainly be an opportunity to reply in writing and each of you will receive an answer if not now, during my speech, it is a written reply. Maybe I should start by asking Mr Jach's question. I did have some other information, but maybe I was wrong. It seemed to me that this is 12.5 billion PLN, which actually wasted the Civic Platform due to inadequacies or other pathological phenomena, which are now being investigated by both the Department of Control... [[You've been investigating for a year.]] ...as well as by the proper services, but we've actually dealt with such systematicness. It was disturbing because, of course, sometimes it may not be spent fully committed funds, but systematic, repeating from year to year the same mechanism, the fact that taxpayers' money was wasted, is indeed a worrying phenomenon. Against the background of this phenomenon is this false tone that we now hear: what will happen will be the Polish Army, we will have to spend money on strengthening the Polish Army. It's horrible. It's tragic. I do feel that way. And here I would like to say that the only honest one, I have the impression, among the Members of the Civic Platform, was Mr Mroczek. Mr Mroczek - and this is the attitude I consider to be an attitude worthy of real polemics - says directly and openly: the Territorial Defence Army is unnecessary. It's wasteful, it's unnecessary. We're here to maintain an army... [[You don't understand much, Minister.]] ...miniature, we still have the miniature that Mr Mroczek and Mr Komorowski and Prime Minister Tusk have built all the time. There will be no war in Europe, there will be no threats, there will need small troops to support, to expeditions or parades. We're gonna have an army like this. Why do we even need an army defending the country? And I understand that as part of the philosophy you've been pursuing over the years. An alliance with Russia, open to the fact that there will be no threat from the Russian side, absolutely sure that there will be no war in Europe. In such a philosophy it was possible to formulate such an approach to amy. But it's time to wake up, sir. It's time to wake up. We have had a completely different situation in Europe for three years. Perhaps you'd like to take a look at the real threats. They do not allow such thinking to continue, nor do they, and perhaps even more so, to continue the thinking that Mr Meysztowicz has formulated. Mr Putin, let me be honest with you that your idea that the special forces will only hit the places where the operational forces are stationed in Poland and meet with well-trained soldiers at the highest level is a great idea, but you still have to deal with President Putin. The problem we're meeting with today, and it's worth it for you to realize it, is either we create a Territorial Defence Army that fills up the entire battlefield, and it's also gonna make the civilian population defend in those places where we're not able to dislocate operational troops, or you're gonna convict not the Territorial Defence Army, just women and children of the fact that they're gonna be attacked by a specnaz. It's high time you woke up, too, and saw what was going on, so you could see what the attack in Georgia looked like, what the attack in Ukraine looked like, what the modern battlefield of the Russians looked like. It is high time for you to see this, because I repeat, the choice is not that, sir, Mr, if you will excuse me, if we will be dealing with the possibility of issuing the best trained units, professional commandos units, professional GROM units, professional units of the best trained operational forces everywhere. That's not the alternative. The alternative is: either the special forces will strike the peaceful, God-given spirit of the guilty inhabitants of Polish cities and villages, or they will meet equipped and prepared to fight the Territorial Defence Forces, remaining in current communications and having the opportunity to interact with operational troops. That is the alternative, and it is time for you to understand it, because once again I assure you that the specnaz will not listen to your advice to hit only well-armed Polish commandos, but will strike where you may not expect it. I want to return to this constantly repeated by the Members of the Civil Platform of the lietmotive connected with the alternative again: let us not spend money on the Territorial Defence Army, because we must take someone away. We're not taking anyone. It is worthwhile for you to realise that we have made a certain international commitment, an international commitment related to the need to increase the state's defence budget to 2% calculated according to the Natovian methodology, i.e. by at least 1600 million a year more than you have so far calculated according to your methodology. It was one of the important elements that led to the dislocation of US troops and NATO troops in Poland since January. It's worth it for you to realize that. This money will be spent on additional activities and additional needs of the Polish army, including the Army of Territorial Defence of the country. By the way, it is worthwhile for you to finally realise that in the creation of this concept, in the preparation of command, in the preparation of the entire programme of the Territorial Defence Army of the country, we have been cooperating with officers equivalent to the Territorial Defence Army of the country, i.e. officers of the National Guard of the United States of America. It's worth it for you to be aware of that. If this is fun for you gentlemen, congratulations on your sense of humor. And one last thing, maybe the penultimate. The matter that you have been asking about, the equipment, including the armed forces of the country's territorial defence. Indeed, I will give you the answer in secret, because the detail you require prevents the answer in public, but one thing can be said and it is worth saying: we will indeed strive for this to be a weapon enabling real participation in the fight also against the most dangerous opponent, so that these troops are equipped to be capable of resisting the real threat, so that they are not auxiliary units, that they are not merely individuals who are merely additions to the army, but that they have their own combat capabilities. For this reason, allow me to give you the details in private. [[Thousands of drones.]] There is always a liet motif that I cannot call any other than the political obsession on the part of the Civic Platform, which, after a momentary desire to rationalise, has been pushed back into this crazy channel again. [[We're adjusting.]] I am sorry to say this because the beginnings of this debate announced that some elements of sobriety already exist among Members of the Civic Platform. Well, I want Mr Ciesielski... The carpenter, right? [[Cieslinski.]] Sorry, Cieślinski. Excuse me, sir. ...Mr Cieślinski will answer again. There is no possibility of creating in the Polish army any troops at any level that would not be subordinate to the Minister of National Defence. That's not gonna happen. You'd have to change the constitution and change the fundamental laws. [[Or maybe the minister.]] Therefore, I am sorry to tell you that, as you propose to the Territorial Defence Army, these are the troops of Antoni Macierewicz, so you can also formulate them against the army of the Republic of Poland in general. I understand that you are upset about this, but the citizens of the Republic of Poland have decided otherwise in their free and universal elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They voted for the Pooh.]] [[In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u588	Here you are, Mr Darkman, in the correction procedure. I hope it's a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u589	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister Macierewicz wanted to address my statement. Of course, he did not understand this statement, which clearly confirms his draft law on the Territorial Defence Army. I am talking about the fact that these troops will not increase the combat potential of our Armed Forces, so that's all the Minister says about the role these troops can play is simply fiction. What Minister Macierewicz is doing in the field of building these troops is really interrupting the process of professionalization of the Armed Forces. Minister Macierewicz led to the collapse of the helicopter program. As part of other important modernisation programs, he has just annulled the procedure for obtaining six ships for the Polish Navy. During the last year in the field of the submarine, he managed to translate technical and tactical requirements into English and send them to the Norwegians. That's his work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He stopped the professionalization of the Armed Forces...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u590	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u591	...reduced the fighting potential of the Armed Forces. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u592	I am also sorry to say that this did not have much to do with the correction. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr President, I have doubts as to whether the Member was mentioned by name. [[He was, he was.]] Oh, here you go. One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u593	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, Minister, you don't have to wake me up, I'm awake. I don't know why you think I'm sleeping. I'm alive and awake. Secondly, you seem to have misunderstood me because my statement was justified by this belief that 10,000. well-trained people are better able to secure the Polish society and those mothers with children you spoke about than 50,000. Badly trained amateurs. [[What do you mean you counted it?]] You, on the other hand, have a good relationship, and don't tell me to deal with Putin, where he's going to attack Poland and who he's going to take first. I think you're the one who's having some effect on Russia because it's your actions that scared the Russians so much that they let go of buying the mistrali. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Really, you know what? I think you should do this, or maybe even convince Putin to give up at all and not think about attacking Ukraine, Poland and so on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Try it, you're doing very well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u594	Thank you, sir. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Was the Member mentioned by name? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're welcome to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u595	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Once again, every other type of Armed Forces has its commanding officer. This type of Armed Forces will have a superior only in the person of Minister Macierewicz. And that's it, or that's it. Believe me, I'm really not sad, though it should be. Looking at all this, he just wants to laugh. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u596	You're welcome, Minister. [[Until morning?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u597	Thank you very much. Mr Marshal, I have the same impression as some Members that Members of the Civic Platform, as well as some other clubs, either do not understand or do not want to understand. It's true, but there's always a presumption of good and you have to face it. As for the speech made by the Member who spoke recently, you are mistaken. You're wrong. The commander of the Territorial Defence Army is you. Colonel Cuckoo. Each type of Armed Forces, including the Territorial Defence Army, has its commander and commander of any kind of Armed Forces is not the Minister of Defence, even when it is called Antoni Macierewicz. [[Applause]] So, I assure you, there simply isn't, I mean. I have such a huge request. I am aware that this is not easy matter, that the military is not easy matter, but I ask you to make a minimum effort before you speak. For example, read this bill. [[But the president has already called?]] I know, it's a dozen pages again, it's not that easy, but it can be done in half an hour. Because you are Members of the Republic of Poland, by God the Father, you are Members of the Republic. You represent the Polish people, so as you say, speak with minimal competence. [[Same to you.]] It is true - it is true - that 10,000. well-trained soldiers are incomparably more effective weapons than 53,000. badly trained soldiers or, as you have said, untrained soldiers at all, only that I did not lead the Army of Territorial Defence - and I assure you that it will be a wider phenomenon - a man who ate his teeth in command of the best Polish commandos unit, the best, so that the soldiers under him would be poorly trained, just so that they could be trained as best as possible. And I have no doubt that by doing this task, Colonel Kukuła will follow the instructions he received from me in this matter. [[And that's what we're afraid of.]] And it's my duty and my competence to provide him with such weapons and tools that he'll be able to do it. I am pleased to hear from the additional Member just now, because this has finally been said as honestly as Mr Darken said. You're afraid of strengthening the Polish Army... [[We're afraid of you.]] ...and that's what the problem is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u598	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on National Defence in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the declaration of the Statute of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, published in Madrid on 13 September 1983 (prints No. 955 and 979). I would like to ask Marian Zembala to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u599	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Joint meetings of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Foreign Affairs took place on 4 November. I would like to say that in the case of a government draft law on the termination of the Statute of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, drafted in Madrid on 13 September 1983, print No 955, unanimously, we decided together to proceed without any amendments, which I ask you to do. Due to the very late time you will allow me not to justify, I will just say that this position of ours is preceded by a positive opinion from the Polish Academy of Sciences. And we're talking about an institution that actually was Europe's first genetic engineering and biotech international organization with centres located in Trieste, New Delhi and Cape Town in South Africa. Poland has been strongly represented, like most European countries, at the European Molecular Biology Organization and the European Molecular Biology Laboratory for some time, and it is so strong, so appropriate that there is legal, medical compatibility, so substantive, to take such a step. In this regard, I ask you to accept the common, concerted position, thank you, Mr. Marshal, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u600	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u601	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my club's position on the governmental draft law on the declaration of the Statute of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), drawn up in Madrid on 13 September 1983, in sejm No. 955. The International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology was the first such organization to which Poland has joined, represented in this organization since 1996 by the Polish Academy of Sciences. The coordinator of cooperation between Polish scientists from the Centre is the National Committee on ICGEB, operating at the Biotechnology Committee within the Polish Academy of Sciences Bureau. I would like to quote two points or more. The importance of ICGEB membership fell significantly, as you mentioned, after Poland joined the European Molecular Biology Organisation (EMBO) and after cooperation with the European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL) by the National Science Centre, the National Centre for Research and Development and the Foundation for Polish Science, thanks to which Polish scientists gained the opportunity to obtain much more attractive national and international grants. Second thing. Given that the membership contribution to the Centre from January 2017 will increase annually by 20% and will reach more than 200 000 in 2021. USD, while limiting the possibility of using grants to 28 000. $1, it seems that this decision - on the one hand 204 thousand. USD of Polish contribution, and the possibility of obtaining an advantage of 28 thousand. $ - makes this proposal absolutely rational. Finally, apart from Russia from Europe, the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology only includes Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary and Italy. High Seym! The binding of the Republic of Poland by the statute, which is decided by the law under consideration today, was the result of the law, therefore the Polish party should apply on the basis of the consent expressed in the law. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill submitted [[♪ The bell ♪]] ladies and gentlemen in Parliament's print No 955. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u602	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna Białkowska, please take the floor. There is no Member. Mr Brynus made his statement in writing, right? This is Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u603	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to introduce the position of the Modern Club. The Republic of Poland ratified the Statute of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology in 1996. This organization was founded, in general, in order to promote international cooperation in research in the field of genetic engineering and biotechnology. However, 20 years have passed since the ratification of the Statute. During this period, a number of changes have taken place, which have led to the fact that our country's membership of this institution has no longer been essential in terms of research development. This organization certainly does not have a significant contribution to the research carried out by the community of Polish scientists. A number of different factors have contributed to reducing the importance of participation in this organisation. First of all, Poland joined the European Organisation for Molecular Biology and began its activities within the European Molecular Biology Laboratory. In addition, our scientists have a number of opportunities to obtain interesting grants, both national and international, e.g. from the National Science Centre, the National Centre for Research and Development, the Foundation for Polish Science and the European Research Council. It should be stressed that the decision to make an appeal also justifies a number of financial arguments, including: increase of the membership contribution since 2017, higher cost of contributions than the benefits received in 2015 and the same negative forecast for 2016 for Polish scientists. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum, which is worth noting, the submission of information on the departure from the organisation in 2016 would keep the amount of 100,000 in the state budget. USD, starting as early as 2018 It should also be indicated that from the beginning Poland at the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology represents the Polish Academy of Sciences, whose departments also advocated leaving the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology. The resignation of membership therefore appears to be fully justified. Modern is in favour of further work on this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u604	Thank you, sir. Mr Krystian Jarubas, please take the floor. In writing, the Member has submitted. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u605	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the Declaration of the Statute of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, drawn up in Madrid on 13 September 1983. The only purpose of the proposed act is to initiate the procedure of Poland's speech from the Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology with a written annual notice. Poland joined this international organization including the centre and a network of affiliated national, sub-regional and regional centres, because membership was intended to support the development of Polish science. These objectives have not been met. The Polish Academy of Sciences, which since 1996 represents Poland at the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, stressed in its report that the cost of the annual contribution to members significantly exceeded the value of benefits that scientists received from this organization. At the same time, the rank of the organization itself, as a result of changes related to Poland's accession to the European Organisation for Molecular Biology and after the decision to participate in the work of the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, decreased significantly. As a result, the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology ceased to have a significant impact on research in Poland. A similar opinion was expressed in the report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Polish Free and Solidarni Circle welcomes the opinion of the Minister of Science and Higher Education and the Bureau of the Polish Academy of Sciences recommending Poland's speech from the organization. We therefore request that the bill be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u606	Thank you very much, Member. Are you still interested in the question, ladies and gentlemen? If not, I close the list of people willing to ask a question. Ms Tomaszewska is the first question asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska. One and a half minutes to the question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u607	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland has been involved in the work of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology since 1983. Is it true that this participation is mainly passive at present, at conferences Polish scientists relatively rarely give papers and share scientific achievements, and relatively large numbers are among the participants of the conference. international cooperation? Is it therefore justified by scientific results to pay such a high contribution? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u608	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Goncier, I would like to ask you a question. There's no envoy? I'm closing... I would like the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Minister Alexander Bobka. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u609	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The arguments for the withdrawal from this organisation were basically presented here, so I will not repeat them. The Ministry shares this position, so I will only answer the question of the Member. After the committee meeting we asked the Polish Academy of Sciences to present a report on the activities of Polish scientists in this organization. We've got a composite, but no breakdown for years. It doesn't look that bad. I do not know whether to quote these numbers here, but the activity of Poles or representatives of Polish science at congresses, however, took place in publications. Perhaps, if you are interested, I can provide you with such information, at your disposal. Here I am told that in general 389 people participated in various conventions, courses and conferences from Poland. There have been longer stays, based on scholarships, cooperation, which has also ended in publications, while this activity has been decreasing in recent years because there are other opportunities for research. So, once again, I'm going to ask you to come out of this organization. Also in the context of the fact that a resolution was adopted on the increase of the contribution in the following years, this request for an application is absolutely justified. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u610	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The discussion is closed because the rapporteur of the committee, Marian Zembala, has resigned. [[Thank you.]] We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws (Prints Nos 965 and 1035). I ask Mrs Maria Zuba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u611	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, we adopted the report of the Finance Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and some other laws, print No 965 - the report is contained in print No 1035. We have examined the amendments, and in this context I would like to remind you that the European Commission estimates that the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL has created tax gaps in the state budget of PLN 40/60 billion. In the bill that we are working on today, the applicant, the government, introduces regulations that seal the VAT collection system. The recovery of at least 50% of the revenue from the reduction of this gap will support the implementation of the budget and will also provide a significant boost to the development of the economy. This draft amends the VAT Act, the Tax Code and the Tax Order. The VAT Act includes the method of tax settlement, the verification procedure system, the reverse charge mechanism and the buyer's joint and several liability for the tax arrears of the supplier of goods. In the Tax Code, the projector proposes tightening the sanctions. In the Tax Office it is proposed, among others. removing the possibility for certain VAT taxable persons to account for quarterly periods. Most of the amendments adopted by the Committee on Public Finance are sealing and clarifying. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the amendment introducing an extension of the deadline until 1 July 2017 for the entry into force of the regulation of the article. 1 point 3, i.e. the regulation leading to the removal from the scope of existing VAT exemptions of the exemption for services forming part of a tax-free financial or insurance service. In the current legal order such services as e.g. the elimination of damages provided by third parties to insurance undertakings has been exempt from VAT. Proposed provision in Article. Point 1 (3) excludes those entities from the exemption. Given that in the calculation process the insurance undertaking takes into account the incurred costs of services provided by third parties, it is appropriate to extend the date of entry into force of Article. Point 1 (3) to 1 July 2017 I would also like to draw attention to the amendment proposed for the article. Point 1 (23). This amendment extends the buyer's joint and several liability for the tax obligations of the supplier of rapeseed oil. On the market for transactions in which rapeseed oil is the subject, an extremely large number of transactions are carried out for undue financial benefits from undue VAT. The VAT extortion processer reduces tax revenues and, which is very important, storms fair competition on the market. Therefore, in order to eliminate this pathology on the market or at least to reduce its scale, the Committee on Public Finance has given a positive opinion on the preventive amendment. Following the adoption by the High Sejm of this amendment, the purchaser of rapeseed oil - the VAT taxable person will be jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods for his tax arrears in proportion to the volume of the purchase made. This record will mobilise the buyer to carefully verify the accuracy of the supplier of the goods before the transaction is made. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, please accept the proposed amendments in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u612	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask Mrs Barbara Bubula to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u613	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Here is the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in the second reading of the bill amending the Act on VAT on goods and services presented in Seym printing no. 1035. We presented a detailed justification for the need for changes in VAT law at first reading. I will therefore now confine myself to the opinion on the changes made to the project during the work of the Committee on Public Finance. However, let me start with two brief reflections. Namely, amendments to the VAT Act are always subject to two very important restrictions. One of them is European law, which limits our ability to apply widely, e.g. the mechanism of the rejected burden, which makes it possible to effectively prosecute tax fraud and crimes in the form of a VAT carousel or so-called. pole companies. This is why not all changes advocated by honest entrepreneurs have been presented in the project. However, we have to ensure that the Ministry of Finance has made efforts in the European Commission to obtain authorisation for further VAT sealing measures. The second limitation is related to the need to ensure adequate revenue for the State budget, which has been reduced for years by real bleeding in terms of loss of income due to VAT offences. The opposition Civic Platform, here I am warning the arguments that will probably be made in this case, forgets that for its rule so-called. The VAT-owska hole amounted to several tens of billion zlotys. And how can we calmly accept these arguments from the opposition club that we are not lowering VAT next year? Of course we would have reduced it if you hadn't caused the loss of tens of billions of dollars by the exceptional inefficiency of VAT collection and the inefficient pursuit of its fraud. However, the actions already taken by the Law and Justice Government in the current tax year are having excellent results. For example, today's announcement from the Ministry of Finance reads as follows: According to estimates in the period January-October this year. State budget revenue was 12.4% higher compared to the same period last year. On the other hand, tax revenues increased by 7.5% during this period. year to year. That's what we read in the ministry's announcement. This, ladies and gentlemen, in absolute figures as much as 30 and 16 billion PLN, respectively, only in the first 10 months of this year. I will now move quickly on to the amendments adopted at our request during the work of the Committee on Change. The changes are 11 and the most important of them relate to a half-year shift in time to the entry into force of changes involving VAT on services around insurance, which is the implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This delayed entry into force meets the demands of entrepreneurs. Similarly, such a positive acceptance of their demands is the introduction of the so-called. joint and several liability in transactions relating to rapeseed oil. A rejected burden cannot yet be imposed because of restrictions on European law, but the proposed provision will impede the use of this form of fraud in the tax on goods and services by criminals. It is also important to remove tax sanctions for those taxable persons who, after a preliminary check, but even before an appropriate tax check, after paying attention to the incorrect calculation of VAT, will deposit a correctly calculated declaration and pay the difference regarding the reduction of the tax paid. In conclusion, we are counting on it, even it can be said that we are sure as a law and justice club, that the bill completed during the committee work will further improve tax revenue and thus improve the state budget. Consequently, I repeat once again, this will contribute to the return to the 22 percent basic VAT rate within the deadline proposed by the Government of Law and Justice. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u614	Thank you very much, Member. I would ask Mr Vladimir Nykiel to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u615	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the report of the Finance Committee on the draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and certain other laws. In the beginning, maybe such a formal remark. Well, the report itself was prepared, I think, 25 minutes ago, in any case we were already here in the Chamber, which made it quite difficult to prepare amendments to the report, the content of which, let's say, is known to us because we were at a committee meeting, but I, frankly, did not see this report because I could not, when I wrote the amendments. I therefore submit these amendments with care and request that this be formally adapted to the printing of the report. High Izbo! Well, the bill is very important because it has a wide range of subject matter. It is important as any initiative aimed at sealing the collection system for goods and services. And the so-called fraud and the size of the so-called fraud. the gaps are so alarming that they require further steps from the legislator. A number of solutions have already been introduced to seal the VAT collection system, but all of them, although effective, have proven to be insufficient to eliminate these negative phenomena. It must be stressed that the problem itself is not only characteristic of Poland, because it also affects other Member States of the European Union, which, like Poland, are looking for other sealing solutions, but rather directing the blade of the law so as to combat fraud. By reducing the gaps, it must not be forgotten that the tax on goods and services is a tax that should be neutral for businesses and that the obligations and risks of taxpayers, traders and tax authorities should be balanced accordingly. The rules that seal the tax system should not create excessive ailments for traders' taxpayers. Tax authorities should not be obliged to pass on to taxpayers, as the blade of these rules should be directed towards fraudsters. Here, it seems, on the one hand, it is important to stress that a number of provisions deserve a positive assessment - I have no doubt about it - but in some provisions we find rules that are excessively vulnerable to taxpayers, agents, for, in general, the economic sphere. Such motives to eliminate these ailments, e.g. They're guiding, they're guiding our amendments. There are six of them here. I'm running out of time right now, so... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will not discuss them, but among others. they are dictated by the need to facilitate the business situation. In addition, we still have an amendment on the amount of this tax next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u616	Thank you very much, sir. I understand that all the amendments have been tabled by you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u617	Yeah, they're complex.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u618	Thank you very much. We ask you to speak on behalf of Mr Kukiz.15, who is on his way to the speaker. There you go, Mr Grzegorz Długi.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u619	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law, undoubtedly one of the most important that we make in this term of office and should take, has flaws. The first drawback is the way you process it. We process at an atomic rate, in such a way as to prevent a real, peaceful examination of problems, to improve them, to notice possible errors or gaps. We are proceeding in a way that prevents the creation of a law that will work, because it must work, it should, because it concerns a key issue for this country right now, i.e. the sealing of VAT, something that is probably the most important thing for everyone. The speed, the way we proceed, the fact that we also receive certain documents, even the amendments of the applicants are given us moments before their examination at the committee meeting, this is not the right way. It makes it harder to work, and we all have the same goal, and we all think the same thing. It's the worst part that we're doing something completely unnecessary that we're different about things that don't really differ from each other. That's what I'm gonna say, serious grudges. I think that all Members who are connected with the work on this bill have it. As a matter of principle, as we have already said in previous speeches, the purpose of this law is, of course, necessary, necessary and difficult not to support it. This is the whole problem that it is difficult not to support her, and at the same time she has elements that encourage her not to support her to vote against. You shouldn't do that. Some things should be separated, you should be separated. For example, what the professor said at the end - this unfortunate rate. She's thrown in. as if it weren't in five or nine. She should be in a completely different legal act. It'll make this one a little cleaner. In fact, it has quite a number of drawbacks that make it very difficult for us to support it. I'm just gonna drop a few things. Art. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4b, which refers to the liability of the proxy. Abstracting from the issue of constitutionality or unconstitutionality, because it is today even the legislators who have raised it, it will prevent us, it will reduce economic development again - of course in a limited sense, but nevertheless - because it is a very big obstacle for new economic operators, and it is a strong obstacle for foreign entities, especially not those big ones, but some smaller ones who will want to start their business in Poland, because they usually act by proxy. I know something about it because it's my profession, and I'm just not gonna take the power of attorney away from anybody because it's too risky. We're just creating a barrier that isn't needed. This case can be handled without creating this barrier. Same art. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9a point 5, i.e. the removal of the taxable person from office, i.e. it is of its own motion and, above all, leaves no possibility for the office to act differently. The Office must delete the taxable person if, inter alia, In some way, the authorities considered that the taxpayer knew or should have known that he was involved in illegal activities out there as a single mode. Without proper procedure, we remove the taxpayer, we eliminate him, because that's the truth. If he is to conduct an economic activity and is removed, he will cease his business. If it turns out that he wasn't involved in all this, then the taxpayer is gone. And that's not the point. This can be done in a normal and peaceful way, without having to... We're executing the death penalty before somebody decides someone was guilty, before somebody decides that the alleged murderer killed anyone, that someone was killed at all. So this is definitely an exaggeration. What do we do next? This wasn't even discussed in the committee because it's just some less important stuff. Namely, we introduce here. new elements that we will go through insurance, all around financial services, because we have now covered them with VAT, so all citizens will feel all this. Insurance must be more expensive if insurance winding-up services are now being enforced. And there are more of these elements. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another point, this sanction mechanism. That sanction mechanism that gives you... Marshal, it'll be 20 seconds. The sanction mechanism in Article. 110a and 110b, which is a tool, will not hit the dishonest taxpayers, because the dishonest ones at the moment we catch them with that sanction, they're gone. He's gonna hit the normal taxpayers who made mistakes. This is also a very serious error, and it is so constructed that this mechanism works a little automatically. This should therefore be changed. But this should be part of a system, because let's not forget that we still have the tax code, we have plenty of other arguments, i.e. tools we can use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u620	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club Modern Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u621	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! There is no denying that we actually have a huge problem with this law, because, as it contains many elements that we would like to support in the interests of the Polish state, so it also contains many elements that are actually impossible to support, because they are very negative from the point of view of the Polish economy and Polish entrepreneurs. But the biggest scandal is the procedure for prosecuting this bill. In fact, sitting here in the Chamber today, we have not yet had a committee report, so it seems impossible to write correct amendments with current numbers. In this way we create a very important law, tax law in Poland and act on a very important law. Before I move on to what I do not like the most about this bill, I have two words for Mrs Bubble. Bragging about a dozen percent increase in budget revenue in the year in which you received an extra 9 billion revenue from LTE and 8 billion profits from the National Bank of Poland is simply indecent. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Speaking of the bill, the government is simply looking for money. And the scandal is that it was this crew that criticized their predecessors the most a while ago, the PO-PSL government, for increasing VAT rates by 1%, today doing exactly the same thing, even though it would have been quietly possible, because there is space for it, if not a blown distribution policy implemented by this government, then do it. The law - the two most difficult things to accept - will introduce penalties for entrepreneurs who can simply erroneously fill in their declarations and make a wrong calculation of VAT. Such misunderstandings and underestimations will cost entrepreneurs additionally 20-30%. This additional tax is not surprising for the purpose of the entrepreneur, but already in the case of errors it is completely unacceptable. Today, after the check has been completed, the entrepreneur, let us remind you, can pay this tax with interest up to 8%. You want to charge your entrepreneurs twice for the same thing. Today, you're introducing an extra tax of 20%. And it's not gonna end like they're gonna have to pay 28% in sum. The Minister says that you are reaching out to those persons who will be subject to this preliminaries check, but you forgot to say that the investigation does not apply to every case and at this point we will be a part of the entrepreneurs involved in the investigation and will pay a maximum of 8% extra interest, and some entrepreneurs will have control immediately and will pay 28%. How it will be distributed and according to which key, who will be covered by this investigation and who will be controlled, I really don't know. The second thing that is unacceptable to us is the issue of removing taxpayers from the register. The project predicts that this possibility will have an office at the moment when... It is enough that the company buys or sells goods to a tax fraud, for this reason it will be able to lose VAT. Today we heard from the Minister that it is not the end that the company will actually be able to continue to operate. But we warned that this was a loss of credibility for the company in the eyes of the contractors. Perhaps this will involve the withdrawal of the loan at the bank. And yet there are official errors, there is a situation in which something that seems obvious to the official is completely not obvious to the entrepreneur. In fact, the state should also act in good faith. We are still in administrative proceedings, not judicial proceedings, ladies and gentlemen, and we already want to impose penalties such as deletion from the register for presumption. I therefore make amendments. The support of this law will ultimately be subject to adoption. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the amendments I tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u622	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska to make a statement on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u623	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government bill, prints no. 965 and 1035. The bill was discussed by the Committee on Public Finance today and by the votes of the PiS Members was again addressed to the High House for its adoption. Let me briefly remind you that the project essentially includes an increase in VAT to 8 and 23% By the end of 2018, i.e. for the next two years. It also contains a number of additional solutions aimed at improving tax collection according to applicants, even called a package of sealing solutions. These include the reverse load mechanism, including: for specific construction services, for the sale of processors, certain goods of gold, silver and platinum. In addition, the project amends the VAT accounting rules, introduces the obligation to submit electronic declarations, summary information for monthly periods. The bill, it must be said, was subject to consultation, but in a very short period, before submitting the proposal to the High House. Therefore, many questions have been raised from business organisations, as well as negative assessments, which highlight the absoluteness of some solutions, the increase in bureaucracy, the increase in labour expenditure and, of course, the increase in the cost of adapting companies to these new procedural requirements. The draft provides for a modification of the provisions on guarantee deposit and so-called deposit. joint and several liability. Additional conditions have been introduced to ensure that the buyer of the goods is exempt from joint and several liability. Additional requirements have been introduced that must be met so that the seller can lodge a guarantee deposit and be included in the list of entities that have lodged such a deposit. All the changes made will allow the guarantee deposit to be lodged and then remain on the list by sellers who ensure compliance with their tax obligations. The joint and several liability of the proxy has been introduced. The joint and several liability of the representative who filed the registration application, together with the registered taxable person, would concern the tax arrears arising from the activities carried out within 6 months from the date of registration of the taxable person as an active VAT taxable person. The conditions for refusing to register an entity as a VAT taxable person have been indicated and the conditions for removing a taxable person from the taxable person's register have been clarified. Numerous tax sanctions are foreseen for incorrect VAT clearance. Today, very numerous changes have been made to the work of the committee, mainly in a more precise way, proposed by both committee members and, very numerous, by the Legislative Bureau. It must be pointed out and made clear that only those amendments which were tabled by Members of the PIS have been taken into account and that the amendments proposed by the opposition have been rejected. In conclusion, High Izbo, I have to say with regret that the project under investigation is nothing more than the introduction of a tax on goods and services, not so much sealing and closing the tax gap as it complicates the forms and procedures of tax settlement for all entrepreneurs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u624	Thank you very much. Ms Małgorzata Zwierzan will make a final statement, on behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u625	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and some other laws following the work on this project in committee. [[I'm sorry. I wanted to correct it. I've been replaced.]] The package of sealing solutions contained in this project represents a real opportunity to improve VAT collection, which is one of the most important sources of revenue to the state budget. We are all aware that this law is extremely important... [[I'll make a statement tomorrow, and I'll tell you that your marshal doesn't...]] ... because the solutions contained in it are intended to allow for preventive response to VAT fraud without at the same time hitting the fair business of Poles. The rules intended to fulfil the main purpose of the Act are mainly based on changes in the rules for registration, registration and verification of VAT taxable persons, extension of the catalogue of goods and services covered by the reverse charge mechanism, re-establishing VAT sanctions in the event of a finding of a failure of the taxable person in a complex tax return, limiting the application of the refund of the difference in tax in an accelerated, 25-day period and extending the joint liability to the agent of the entity starting the business in the event of a tax arrears of that entity arising in connection with its participation in the unfair settlement of tax in order to confer an advantage on the property. As the first reading and work on this law in the Committee on Public Finance, reservations and controversy have shown. In our assessment, we agree with some of them. I consider it too far-reaching for entrepreneurs to check the integrity of their indirect counterparties and several reverse transactions, as well as the introduction of the joint and several liability of the representative who performed this function in the registration of the entity, to act as a taxable person who is not affected by it and which is carried out entirely outside its knowledge. Although we understand the translation of applicants, we understand the right intention of these records, in our view they require rethinking and refinement. However, these doubts do not affect our overall assessment of this project, which, once re-developed, has the chance to effectively combat fraudulent taxpayers' fraud and improve the collection of VAT. It requires that this law is extremely important, for example, from the point of view of the possibility of reducing the VAT rate raised by the previous government in 2018. The Free and Solidarni wheel is in favour of continuing the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u626	Thank you very much. I understand that there's no one else on the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm closing this list. [[I'm checking in.]] She folded, you've already made statements, I've closed the list. Member, I ask you very much to keep order. [[Your Marshal, let me be honest with you, you're biased.]] You gotta be kidding me when you say those words. You'll have time to make a statement for as long as five minutes to speak, and I don't think there's any reason for you to make a correction. [[But I asked you a question, and you didn't take the question.]] I have no strength to argue with you, Madame. Please ask the question. Well, there you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u627	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to state on this occasion that your Marshal did not give me the floor on the correction, and I just wanted to correct the false statement of the Modern Member who said here that it was indecent to inform me about the higher tax revenues of the state budget this year. These revenues, ladies and gentlemen, are higher by PLN 16 billion year by year, or 7.5% tax revenue this year. The total revenue of the state budget in the first 10 months of this year is higher by PLN 30 billion. I therefore find it indecent to call it indecency to inform about the good implementation of the state budget this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u628	Thank you very much, but it was not a form of question, it was a statement, Mrs President. Mrs Margaret Navel is not here. Nor is Mr Mirosław Suchoni. Thus, the list of people who joined the questions was exhausted. I understand that, because it was not a question, the Minister and also the rapporteur do not want to declare any more. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. That is where we concluded this item. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 15 November this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz made a statement in writing. Mr Jack Kurzapa from the Law and Justice Club is not here. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska made a statement in writing. So we have Edward Siarka, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u629	Thank you, Marshal. Despite the late season, I wanted to make a statement which, I think, is important for many Orava residents, who are affected by this statement, and especially the historical figure that worked among the Orava inhabitants. In October 2016, we celebrated the 74th anniversary of the death of Fr. Jan Góralik in Dachau camp. Fr. Jan Góralik was born on 13 June 1889 in the area of today's Staniątek near Niepołomic. He graduated from St. Anna in Cracow, where in 1907 he received a certificate of maturity. After graduating from junior high school, he began his studies at the Faculty of Theology at the Jagiellonian University in Cracow, where he received priestly ordination on 22 October 1911. He was a vicar in parishes in Rychwałd and Radochowa in Żywiecczyn, and after Poland regained independence in 1919 he started working in Cicin in the parish of St. Catherine. At this parish he was for 3 years to take the position of Vicar in 1922 in the parish of the Most Holy Savior in Krakow-Zwierzynec. He served there until 1927, when he was transferred to the pastoral service in Podwilk, Orava. Orava at that time was a unique place, special in free Poland. As every border area in the past was within different countries, starting from Poland, through Hungary, Austria-Hungary, then Czechoslovakia and Poland. Covering the parish of St. Marcin in Podwilk by Fr. Jan Góralik meant putting the parish under the jurisdiction of the Polish priest. From the first days of his activity Fr. Jan Góralik started intensive pastoral and social work in Podwilk. On his initiative, among others. was established on 7 October 1928. Kasa Stefczyk. On the basis of this cash register there is still a Cooperative Bank in Jabłonka, which cultivates memory of this well-deserved founder. The money worked successfully throughout the interwar period and supported many initiatives of Orava residents. In 1933 in the district of Nowytar, the Society for Public Schools was established and the first near the Society was created by Fr. Jan Góralik was founded, among others. in Podwilk. In 1938 Fr. Jan Góralik also became the councillor of the municipality of Jabłonka in order to effectively support the development of Podwilka and other towns of Orava. The Krakow Curia also appreciated the work of the priest, his efforts and achievements, making him Dean of Orava in 1930. Dramatic events on 1 September 1939, i.e. the crossing of the borders of Poland by German troops, caused that one of the first victims of World War II became Orava residents, including parish priest Fr. Jan Góralik and his vicars, who are arrested on September 2nd and transported to internment camps and later to concentration camps. After this arrest, Fr. Jan Góralik never returned to his parish again, was murdered in 1942 in Dachau. In this way Fr. Jan Góralik divided the fate of 3.5 thousand. Polish priests murdered by the invaders during World War II. The memory of this great priest, his testimony survived among the inhabitants. Today, commemorative plaques dedicated to his memory are located in the Cooperative Bank in Jabłonka and in the parish church of St. Marcin in Podwilk. The local middle school also bears its name - Fr. Jan Góralik. After many efforts, thanks to the work of Mr Łukasz Wiatr, a local historian, published a publication entitled: Ks. Jan Góralik. Priest, social worker, martyr, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which brings us closer to this unique figure, deserved for the whole Orava. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u630	Thank you very much, sir. And the last statement today will be made by Mr Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u631	Mrs. Marshal! Fellow Members! People of Krosnieński County on Lubuskie Land! Prime Minister! I'm going back to this podium in the evening not because I suffer from insomnia, just because I know that this room is awake at this time of night and has very sharp hearing. I come back here like a proverbial drunkard clinging to the fence to repeatedly call on my state's services to help rescue the district hospital in Krosno Odrzański, which has already been shut down today. I have been talking about this for months, both using seym procedures, office conversations in adequate resorts, as well as hanging on the outskirts of the government car, hoping for dynamic and effective support. Today I come back here to rid myself of the hope shared by the residents of my district, the district of Krosno Odrzański, resulting from the words made by the Prime Minister before 3 days, that responsible and sustainable development is also a concern for county hospitals. I hope that the Prime Minister will ensure that the services and departments concerned will effectively and effectively support the community of my district, which has been brought into the field of lack of predictability and consideration of the actions of the district council, which, years ago, decided to commercialise the hospital a la Sawicka. It was wrong then. I know it's a domain of the county council. Over the years, the theoretical state has held its responsibility for caring for citizens and their affairs. Clearly a pathological example of such a strategy is the case of the hospital in Krosno Odrzański. Although as a former councillor of this county, and today as a Member, I know that this is not the jurisdiction of the Sejm, Parliament, and even more the President of the Council of Ministers, I allow myself to address the Prime Minister today, because there are people dying not only because they have no hospital but also because they have no ambulance. Therefore, I will not insist on diplomacy and courtesy in such a situation. I call for help on behalf of every one of my fellow countrymen in the Krosno district. Today it seems to me that enough, after my repeated attempts to talk in resorts, ministries, obscure themselves with official spychology and legal chess, who will drive someone into a corner and evade responsibility. There people fear each day, especially the night when they are left alone feeling that no one will help them if necessary. Dear Prime Minister, I beg you very much. I hope that in a few months you will be among the inhabitants of Krosno and Krosnień County and will repeat for one time: we managed [[♪ The bell ♪]] Save the hospital in Krosno County.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-sejm-30-1.u632	Thank you very much, sir. This was the last statement today. identity is also uncritical taking over foreign attitudes and behaviours, as well as cultivating and disseminating certain traditions that have nothing to do with the Polish identity. And yet we Poles have an exceptionally rich and fruitful source rooted in the rich and fascinating history of our country. Let us remember that our nation survived, among others. because he gave great care to his culture and although today's patriotism does not require us to fight directly for our homeland, it should be through our culture - first of all by caring for the culture of the word - expressed by the concern for the beauty of the native language and promoting the culture of life: its respect and protection from conception to natural death. I hereby order an adjournment of the sitting until 16 November this year. up to 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 55]]
