ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u1	I open the twenty-nineth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Mark Pęk and Senator Robert Dowhan to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Robert Dowhan. Gentlemen of the senators, please take... I'm not asking anymore because they're sitting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Lech Kozioł, Senator of the first term of office, Chairman of the Rules of Procedure and Senators' Affairs, Member of the Committee on Human Rights and the Laws, Committee on Initiatives and Legislative Work, Committee on Immigration and Poles Abroad, and Committee on Economic Legislation, died on 2 November. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senator Lech Kozioł. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its 28th meeting on 21 October 2016, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act on a works concession or service contract. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 25th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-sixth Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of the draft agenda, although the reports of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance on these laws were submitted at a later date than specified in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I propose changing the order order order order order order, item seven of the agenda: Act amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws and consider this item as item one of the agendas; item five of the agenda: the National Tax Administration Act and the consideration of this item as item two of the agenda; item six of the agenda: the Law introducing the National Tax Administration Act and considering this item as item three of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. In addition, I propose a joint examination of the point: the National Tax Administration Act and the point: the Law on National Tax Administration. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u2	I object to the introduction of 2 laws: the Act on National Tax Administration and the Law on National Tax Administration. [[Mr. Marshal, this has already been introduced so that you cannot object to the introduction. You can file another motion. If you make another motion, I will put it to the vote.]] I request that these 2 items be removed from the agenda. [[Exactly. If this is your motion, we can vote on it. Good. Please tell me, Mr. Marshal, which points you're trying to remove from order.]] According to the proposal passed, it will be the second and third paragraphs, i.e. the National Tax Administration Act and the Law on National Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u3	Who is in favour of the formal request by Marshal Borusewicz to take down points two and three? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Press the button, I'm holding back. Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] Your Marshal's motion was rejected. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 21st meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. High Izbo, today at 12.00 p.m., a half-hour break will be arranged for the opening of the exhibition of Poles at Kőbányi. Tomorrow's session will begin at 10.00 a.m. after considering the points concerning draft resolutions on the establishment of 2017 of a person or event. Immediately after considering these resolutions, we will proceed to vote on these points. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the meeting. I'll keep you posted. This is an important piece of information. In the event of the Sejm's adoption at the current meeting of the Act on the support of pregnant women and their families, the agenda will be supplemented by a point covering its consideration after the senate committees have drawn up a report on the matter. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 310 and the committee's report in print 310 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances at its meeting yesterday considered the law adopted by the Sejm on amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws and proposes the introduction of 81 amendments to this law, most of which are legislative amendments, accepted and supported by the government. Moreover, all the amendments proposed by the committee in its report were supported by the government. These are amendments aimed at improving the quality of this submission. This bill is very complicated. It implements 2 EU Directives, including the European Parliament and Council Regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. I would like to remind you that the Senate as a whole has made a great contribution to the work on reducing these interchange fees. We have already dealt with this in the previous term, and it can now be said that, on the basis of this regulation, consumers who use payment cards will benefit even more from it than those who have benefited from our previous work. The second Directive, which is implemented by this law, is the Directive on the comparability of fees relating to payment accounts, transfer of payment accounts and access to the basic payment account. These are also very important changes in the financial services market. Consumers will be able to use Internet comparison machines, which are carried out by the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission, will show their activity here. That will allow to compare the fees applied to payment instruments which are subject to the regulation of this law. This law will also facilitate the transfer of bank accounts between providers of these services, i.e. banks and SKOKs. In view of the amendments adopted yesterday by the Commission, it will also facilitate the transfer of accounts within the same supplier, i.e. within the same bank or SKOK. Finally, the third issue introduced by this law is the so-called very important issue. the basic payment account. We have waited a long time for this directive to be implemented. It is of great importance for the dissemination of bank accounts to the citizens of the Republic of Poland. Free bank account... A relatively large number of free-of-charge transactions carried out through this bank account will increase the level of banking among our citizens, increase access to financial services and give the opportunity to benefit from modern instruments, such as online payments, the purchase of products via the internet, which, as we know, is to a large extent difficult for those who do not have a bank account. So this is a very good bill. We as committee have prepared many amendments, but ♪ As I said ♪ The majority are legislative in nature. The Commission invites the High House to adopt the report presented here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, if you were to point out in 3 points the benefits to consumers of these solutions... What's that gonna be? We have 81 amendments, it's all pretty complicated. I mean an average citizen who uses this form of payment. What's he gonna gain after this bill comes into force? What are the pros? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u7	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u8	Greater transparency of fees It's very important. and greater comparability of fees applied to those card products or to payment services at all. This is very important because these fees, especially card fees, were often presented in a way that made it difficult to calculate the actual cost of using these instruments. Thus, ensuring this comparability is very important for consumers. They will be able to choose the supplier best for themselves or the cheapest. Because not always the cheapest supplier is the best one. Thanks to this comparability they will be aware of who is the cheapest, who is the best. This is the first important thing. The second thing is important, too. We hope that, as a result of this regulation, interchange rates will significantly decrease. The Minister will probably be able to present the calculations used. We at the committee meeting didn't ask about the specific impact on... [[We asked...]] Did we ask? I didn't notice, Senator. I'm sorry. That's the question. After me, you will perform the Minister and will certainly present specific data. The direction of the changes is clear reduction of interchange fees, further reduction of interchange fees. Finally, as I said, the possibility of easy transfer of accounts between institutions. So far, technologies have been used in the banking market to ensure that the client is permanently bound to the bank. Those techniques were... Especially in the case of franc loans, this link can be seen. Right? A long-term residential loan forced the use of other services of the creditor and, above all, the use of the current account held with him. This change will facilitate the transfer of accounts between institutions, remove the possibility of this permanent binding. This ease of moving bills is a blessing. It is worth noting that the transfer of accounts will also mean that the bank, which has so far carried out a number of services attached to this account, e.g. direct debits, etc., will have to assist in the transfer of this account by providing a list of transactions so far executed, direct debits to your client in order to facilitate the transfer of the account to another entity. And finally, the most important thing: a free bill, a free payment bill. This is the most important thing. So far, the barrier for many people who don't make much money... Above all, we are talking about pensioners, so there is an expected benefit for the Social Insurance Institution or KRUS, which, as a result of the introduction of the possibility of obtaining a free payment account, will be able to depart even more quickly from the transfer of pensions or pensions via postage. After all, the free bill is sufficient justification for the costs previously borne by the CSO and the CRUS to disappear and for our pensioners to use the free account and receive their benefits. And yet there will also be up to 5 free transactions of this kind. our Senate amendment to 5 ATM transactions free of charge. Thus, if someone has a free bill and receives their salary or pension benefits, 5 times a month he will be able to collect his money free of charge in ATM networks. In addition, comparison machines that will be available will show how many ATMs, how many branches have individual card issuers or payment account providers. So it's a very important change, and it's important, you could say, civilizedly. Our citizens will have bank accounts, they will be able to access all services that are also offered cheaper through these accounts. They will increase, I hope, turnover in online shops, which, as we remember from another debate, are mostly Polish shops. So these are the changes that are going in the right direction. I think that this will also simply increase non-cash turnover, eliminate cash and thus reduce costs in businesses that have so far been forced to accept cash charges and bear insurance costs, transport of this cash, and there was a risk of mugging, etc. The promotion of non-cash trading will help to reduce the costs of our entrepreneurs' activities. So it's an important bill. And as I said, the committee was almost unanimous in all matters, and voted unanimously. We support this project. The amendments that have been prepared by the Legislative Office are legislative amendments. It is a very extensive law, 2 directives are combined in a single law and this number of amendments results from the extensiveness of this submission. I think that if we compare their number with the number of articles, the parties, it would appear that it is, so to speak, a standard proportion of legislative amendments. This number of more than 70 amendments prepared by the Legislative Office is due to the extensive regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about the committee meeting. I would like you to bring the senators closer to the arguments of the Ministry, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, because of which they did not receive acceptance of the amendments proposed by the Polish Non-Bank Payment Institutions Organisation. Could you give the senators a closer look at the differences? That's my question. between banks and cooperative savings and credit banks and those institutions that called for these amendments? I mean, do those institutions keep accounts or... [[Thank you so much for that question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u11	Mr. Senator, wait a minute. Maybe we can get some questions together. I think it'll be easier. [[Great.]] Senator Blackbay, please. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal, because I wanted to ask a similar question.]] Similar? [[Similar.]] Oh, good. And Mr. Senator Grubski. Maybe he has a similar question, too. Different? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u12	Senator rapporteur, how do we estimate the number of free accounts that may arise in the near future?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u13	Good. Thank you very much. This is the easiest question because there is no answer. We don't know what the number is. You can tell how many people, e.g. in the ZUS or KRUS uses transfers, and we assume that this is the group that will quickly open these accounts. I would like to point out that this law does not force consumers to open these accounts. She only offers this opportunity and provides many incentives. Perhaps the ministry has some calculations, some estimates, as they say nicely in business. She probably does. It probably has, but the presentation of any number here will be at risk, because this concerns consumer behaviour, the scale of the promotional campaign on the use of these basic accounts, as well as the extent of involvement by the CSOs and the CRUs. In particular, these two entities I see as those which should immediately start promoting this benefit, which will be a free basic account at the bank. So me, when it comes to specific numbers... Perhaps the Minister has some estimates. We didn't ask that during the committee meeting. We didn't ask, but we know what the scale is. banking in Poland. We are still dealing with tens of percent of citizens of the Republic of Poland who do not use the current account at the bank. It was a question about... [[That was the second one. And the first one?]] The first was to discuss the amendments of the Polish Non-banking Organisation of Payment Institutions. The position of the Legislative Office, as well as the Ministry, was that these amendments were not necessary, that the regulations contained in the Civil Code, which enabled the use of direct debits, the execution of direct debits in an account maintained by organisations, non-bank payment institutions, based on the provisions of the Civil Code, could be used. Therefore, because it would be so-called. Overregulation, unnecessary regulation, committee... Anyway, none of the senators took over these requests from the organization. The difference between these payment institutions and banks or SKOKs is fundamental because these institutions are not deposit institutions, they are only payment institutions and are therefore entitled to perform a narrow range of activities. They will certainly contribute greatly to the development of the payment market in Poland. In Western European countries, the number of payment institutions that offer their services mainly via the Internet, mobile internet, etc. is growing very rapidly. A few hundred suppliers may appear each year, which will compete with each other, thus, of course, making service prices very low. Consumers then have excellent opportunities to choose the best, cheapest supplier. So it's a good thing that non-bank payment institutions will be on our market. This increases competition and this is always for the benefit of consumers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u14	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Golba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u15	Mr. Senator, I have a question. There is a benefit in particular for the elderly, and we know that they often have low salaries, their pensions, pensions are within the range of 1 thousand, 1 thousand 200 PLN or 1 thousand 300 PLN, and it is known that it is often difficult for them to buy medicine or keep an apartment, have a life... And I'd like to ask if having a card, an account, let's bet, you'll have an opportunity, for example. use of debit, and possibly to what extent. Is this taken into account or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u16	This law regulates this very precisely, in some sense protecting people who are not able to afford the risk of becoming over-indebted. It is very important that this basic account is not an account in which debit or credit may appear. There can also be no credit card attached to this basic account, so if we're talking about a credit card, it's just one that's used to take money out of an ATM or make payments, but only up to the amount of funds, the value of the funds that are on the account, so we're not talking about debt attachment to that account. That's not gonna happen. This basic account is not intended to increase the sale of loans to financial institutions. This payment account is supposed to be a benefit to which... And in some sense it is also an obligation, the State imposes an obligation on payment service providers to offer this account. Even in the law, I would like to draw attention, there are penalties for banks, SKOKs, payment institutions, which may be imposed on these institutions if they refuse to offer this basic account. So we take this more as an obligation imposed on billing institutions to offer these services free of charge because of another good, other values for which this account is to be conducted, i.e., as we say, access to civilization devices, such as online payments, increased cash turnover and lower service prices in the financial market. These are the values in the name of which the European Council and Parliament adopted the Directive and committed the Member States to implement it. Poland has been dragging back on the adoption of this directive for a very long time. I'm glad this process is coming to an end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions for the senator? I don't see it that way... [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of... Development has been authorized to present the government's position during parliamentary work? Development? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: No...]] [[Development and finance.]] So here's the mistake, I'm sorry... the finance, right? [[Minister for Development and Finance.]] Oh, yeah, 'cause it's... Yeah, but I've got it right here. Only the Minister of Development... That's the Minister of Development and Finance. Okay, Minister of Development and Finance. And you represent Minister Piotr Nowak. Right now, senators can... Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: No, thank you.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, if you'll excuse me, there will be questions, at least one. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. According to the circular, such, I would say, media knowledge handling of payment cards in Poland or in general savings and settlement accounts, bank charges for this... Well, Poland is, so to speak, leading, but unfortunately in a group of countries where these fees are the highest. Could you tell me if that's true? Is this information that's being repeated in the media true or not? That's one thing. And secondly: what kind of reduction in the share of service costs, if you want to use a payment card or a bill of account and savings, will result in this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u19	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u20	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, as far as this ranking is concerned, Poland is still, as the senator said, in an unsavory lead. And when it comes to fees, card usage, interchange fees, they were changed two years ago, reduced. This law specifically deals with card fees, which concern cards in general, does not interfere, as these fees are already quite low. However, it introduces additional supervision of institutions to ensure that all of this is respected, divided into KNF and NBP. In addition, as far as fees are concerned, the bill is now introducing a free bill. So in general payment with a card in Poland, 5 payments, transfers and transactions using the card will be free of charge. And when it comes to reducing card fees at all, the government is also working on the Polish payment system. Introduction of the Polish payment system on which the government is working Let's hope that this will be done quickly enough, because the work is very advanced, it will allow the said fees for using the cards of Poland in itself to be further reduced. Thus, they will practically go down to such a minimum that the use of cash will be more expensive than the use of payment cards. But this will only provide the Polish payment system, which we are currently working on. And the law in question introduces regulations related to the directive. As far as interchange fees are concerned, Poland has already reduced interchange fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. Now, Senator Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This law implements EU directives and introduces many new advantages for customers using different types of payment services. However, I would like to ask whether this law in some place creates conditions that are more difficult than they have been before in relation to the existing level. Are there any more sharpening here, or are there basically just the benefits that we've talked about here a lot? And rightly so, because it is worth articulating these issues. But are there regulations that make customers' situation a little worse than their previous regulations? That's one question. The second question is the following. At the previous committee meeting, we spoke a lot about the penalties that may be imposed on banks or cooperative credit and savings banks. These penalties are PLN 1 million in the case of banks and PLN 100 thousand in the case of cooperative savings and credit banks. Of course, these are maximum penalties, we know that, they can depend on different elements, that is quite well described in the bill. But do you think that distinction is correct? However, should we not find a way to actually introduce a uniform system of penalties and take into account the size of the entity, etc.? Because it often happens that the cooperative bank What we were also talking about It is smaller than the cooperative credit and savings bank, and in theory there may be situations such as that such cooperative bank will receive much higher penalties than that of the bank. Wouldn't it be worth putting in place such a provision that these penalties depend only on this system? Besides, it was my request that you, if possible, find another proposal for an amendment. And third, last question today. It may not be directly related to this law, but it is linked to the entire non-cash, card, etc. trading system. In our previous term of office, we were talking about... Moreover, the law on the reduction of interchange fees gave the possibility of introducing a national card, i.e. a national card, to create competition for card systems such as Visa, MasterCard or possibly others operating on the market. I know that work on this system has also begun in this term of office at the Ministry of Finance. At what stage are the works and are the work on the National Charter continued in the Ministry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u23	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u24	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! About the senator's first question... As far as customers are concerned, this is a pro-consumer law, which means there are virtually no restrictions for consumers, there are only privileges, especially since we are introducing a product that was not there, and this is a free product. So, in general, there are only privileges for customers. There may be sharpenings or conditions for some companies that carry out such activities, but this is in the pro-consumer direction. As far as the distinction between penalties is concerned, we talked about it. We stand guard all the time, because, I understand, the basis of the philosophy of punishment is that it must be severe. After all, we know from history such cases that punishments were insensitive and businesses or powerful corporations were worth paying the penalty and continuing to function, breaking the law, because it was cheaper than adapting to the law. So the punishment must be severe. But experience and economic practice show that punishment should also be differentiated. This differentiation should take place depending on the size of the operators. The penalty should also be proportionate. We are in favour of it being proportionate, but the problem is that at European Union level, various types of directives are referred to as banks, but there is no division into banks as share companies and cooperative banks. Or as cooperatives. It's just about banks. In general, the proportionality of the penalties is to be reviewed. We hope so, because the current government is lobbying for the separation of stock companies, which is powerful banks, and cooperative banks. We stress that we appreciate the role of cooperative banks and their very important mission in our economy and society, but this topic has not been addressed at all at European Union level in recent years. So we have to adapt to how it is. We are in favour of these penalties being differentiated, which is why we have proposed a smaller penalty for small institutions such as cooperative savings and credit banks. And when it comes to cooperative banks, we'd love to, too, but we can't. There was a proposal we were talking about to raise the penalty to the savings banks. I say we want to change our philosophy. We'd love to lower the cooperative banks, but that's why there's a problem. We don't want to make things worse. Pay more. Have this level of punishment, too. 'Cause that's not the solution. Our philosophy is to go out in front of business, to entrepreneurs, but wherever we can. If we can't, we're not gonna make it worse for another group just because a larger group of big banks has, for example. Bigger punishments. So we took a pro-entrepreneurial route to make it easier. And the punishment must be, as I say, severe. Please also remember that these are the maximum levels of penalties. In his wisdom, KNF is aware that for a small cooperative bank the penalty of 10,000 will sometimes be more severe than for a powerful bank of 1 million. So that KNF is fully aware of it. This is just the level of maximum penalties and for a particular offense, which is for refusing to open an account, which is also, let's say, irrational, because we assume that these institutions will open accounts, because this is also a benefit for them. So this is a little bit of a proverbial crushing of copies by something very theoretical. But I understand that there's a need, so I'm referring to it again. As far as payment cards are concerned, work is being done on the implementation of the Polish payment system, as I was just talking to the senator. These works are carried out in the Ministry of Development. They were initiated at the Ministry of Development, but the Ministry of Finance cooperates with the Ministry of Development. Because we have a personal union, so we work closely with the Ministry of Development. The work is very advanced. I don't want to throw deadlines now, because there's still a problem of getting some technicalities related to the whole infrastructure and getting it, and because there are 2 versions being considered. Whether to build your infrastructure, or perhaps to use the existing one, i.e. to rent it. The costs will be lower, efficiency will be higher and will be faster than building again, from scratch. Nevertheless, the work is very advanced and we hope that as soon as possible... I don't want to say that we're going to implement this this year, but I hope that sometime in the beginning of next year it will be implemented and that the first results will be seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u25	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator. Because you're still asking questions? [[Yes.]] Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u26	Yeah, I'd still like to ask... I mean, I have a request for the Minister to answer me, although perhaps not now, at this meeting, but maybe in writing, and to describe this state of progress on this national card... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Good.]] Yes? Because for us in the Senate, this was a very important issue, even in the previous term, work on this matter has already been started, also on some proposals for the provisions... So this information would be interesting and I would ask very much for it. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Of course.]] And now I'd like to ask you a question like this. Well, this punishment, of course... I am aware, and we are aware that, of course, KNF will apply, so to say... that any penalty will be appropriate to the different relationships and the size of the offence, but we have a problem in talking to cooperative banks. Because these cooperative banks ask, they say: we are small institutions, so why in our case this punishment could be a penalty of up to 1 million PLN? How do you explain to the public that in such a case there may be a penalty of up to PLN 1 million, and in the case of a large SKOK, which is often many times greater than the cooperative bank, the maximum penalty may be, as you say, only 100 thousand? It's like trying to explain this so those people who work in these small financial institutions have a sense of justice. We know that in practice KNF can impose penalties, so to speak, appropriate to the situation, but the provision we propose is an unfair provision. Wouldn't it be worthwhile to make an amendment to reduce this penalty, perhaps to PLN 0.5 million for all equally, i.e. to make it equal and thus fairer? I think that was also the government's suggestion, the government's proposal. Although not about the height, the height was 1 million PLN and it was at the stage of work in the Sejm that this provision changed. And by the way, was there any other legislation that was introduced in the Parliamentary Committee, and which, as I say, concerns the preference of other entities, and this is a little different than the government proposal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u27	Thank you very much. Senator Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u28	Minister, I have a question that I have already asked the Senator of the rapporteur. So, what is the predicted number of these mentioned free accounts? And the second question is, will they in any form be attractive to today's account holders? Because, of course, they show us what the rapporteur has presented to us. They have only such a positive value that they are free of charge, i.e. those used here today in banks are account fees, which amount to somewhere within the range of PLN 10.50, plus these transactions are by card... Will they also be attractive to people with accounts today, or will they only be attractive to pensioners themselves? And what is the value that the Minister mentioned, i.e. the value positive to financial institutions when it comes to keeping these accounts free of charge?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u29	And yet, Minister, if you don't mind, there will be a question for Senator Jackowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u30	Thank you very much. I would first like to ask the Minister that the answer requested by Senator Klein be addressed to me also to Jan Maria Jackowski. [[Good. I write it down, Mr. Senator: Jan Maria Jackowski.]] Yes, sir. And now my question. Namely, what time horizon does the government foresee to convert this idea into a real form? When can this just really enter into force? I'm talking about the time horizon, not the details, but the time horizon. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: But about the accounts we are discussing, or about the Polish payment card?]] Polish payment card.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u31	That's all the questions, at least in this series. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u32	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! As for Senator Kleina's question, it's like... well, how are the banks supposed to explain it? Please note that where it is possible to treat cooperative banks in a manner proportionate to commercial banks, the government of Prime Minister Szydło and the Law and Justice do so. Please note that, as the bank tax was passed, the tax-free amount for the balance sheet of PLN 4 billion was introduced, among other things. So that no cooperative bank pays it, and the SKOK we're talking about is paid because it's in this balance sheet. So it's not like one group is privileged just because someone thinks there are preferences. No, if it's possible to favor these smaller banks, it's done. Please note that the resolution directive only spoke about banks in the same way, and the government also covered the SKOK-i Directive. So we treat all these entities equally when we can. Cooperative banks, because they are associated with IPS, have received a discount on the BRE contribution, so I stress that when it is possible, we do it because we appreciate the cooperative banking sector as a very important part of our economy and our payment and economic bloodstream, but if it is not possible, then unfortunately... We are trying to lobby at European Union level so that there is a distinction between co-op banks and equity banks. Well, I'm sorry, I don't want to get into a clean policy, but this directive has been negotiated for our predecessors at European Union level and nothing has been done. The same was true of the resolution directive. Some things could also have been better done, which is why we now want this distinction to be made at European Union level, because cooperative banks in our country are a very important element and they are not spoken of at European Union level. In countries such as Germany and the United Kingdom, where there are powerful capital groups, such as Deutsche Bank, which has a balance sheet, say, several dozen times larger than German GDP, cooperative banks are very small and they are forgotten, and we have a very large sector. So please note that we apply the principle of equal treatment and proportionality when possible. As for the next question, the question is how many new accounts can be opened, in Poland 18% society is kind of unbanked, so we assume it's some kind of potential. It is difficult to say what interest will remain because we do not know what preferences are, but we assume that having a free bill is a really great privilege. I can't say that 100% people will benefit because there will always be some people who will really not be interested in it, but I think it will be going in this direction. That's 18%. It's also... As far as banking is concerned, this is an inclusion in the current society, because people who do not have a bank account are very often faced with absurd barriers. Well, that's what it looks like. As regards the advantages of this account for those customers who already have an account, those who have a bank account will not be able to open this account. After all, the condition of having this account is that you didn't have any accounts before, because this is about bringing these unbanked people into this sector. They're not just pensioners and pensioners. Please note that these are also young people who enter the age at which they will have the right to open the bill. [[Is there gonna be a database? I mean, the banks need to know that...]] Yes, please note that there is a provision in the Act that says that when the customer comes, the bank will be able to use the database and check that the customer did not have an account so as to avoid any kind of irregularities. As for the benefits that financial institutions will have in general, which will keep such accounts, please note that if we are talking about a young man who opens his first account, he will be able to afford to pay for it and have additional benefits with age when he goes to work. So the client of such an institution will be left in it. Customer attachment is one of the biggest benefits, because please note that for institutions of all kinds it is very important to establish a relationship with the customer, and free bill very well, is positively associated. Because the client has everything from this institution for free, then he wants something more, for which he has to pay, and he is already attached to this institution, to the interface, to the web site, to the card, and besides he has already referred, let's say, a relationship with some advisor, so this is for this institution, so to say, a pure advantage. Well, talking about penalties for not wanting to open that bill is pure theory. As for the answer to Senator Jackowski's question regarding the time horizon of the introduction of the Polish payment card into the payment system, it seems to me that the next year is real. There's no senator. In any case, it seems to me that the real deadline for this solution is next year. I don't want to say whether it's the first half or... We hope the first half. If this could be technically done now, we would like to do so even today, because we see the positive side of it, such as the reduction of interchange fees, the adjustment of these various elements on cards, which... These conditions will be dictated by the Polish government, not by international corporations. But there are certain... It's just a powerful project and it can't be done overnight. We hope that this will happen next year, perhaps even in the first half of the year, if everything goes according to plans. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u33	Thank you very much, Minister. Would anyone else like to ask the Minister a question? You're welcome, Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Will borrowers who have been forced to enter into a bank account agreement be able to terminate this agreement in connection with this law? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: This is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u35	Wait a minute, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Sorry.]] Anyone else want to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any calls. That's probably the last question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u36	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill doesn't regulate whether or not someone was forced to account for taking credit... This bill says straight: if someone doesn't have a bill, they have the right to a free bill. If anyone already has a bank account that he was forced to open when he took credit... I assume if anyone wants to take a loan, they have to have a bill in this bank or in another bank. The fact that he was forced to open an account with the bank where he's taking the credit is another matter. I'm assuming he'd have to have that bill anyway, 'cause that bank's gotta transfer that money somewhere. Either way, he's got that bill, even in another bank. I don't think that's the person you're talking about. This is mostly about pulling non-bank clients into the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u37	Thank you. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u38	Just so we're clear, I'd like to clarify something about Senator Ambrosik's question. Such an account, to which the borrower was forced to open, can, of course, be transferred to another institution. Right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Yes, absolutely.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u39	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Thank you beautifully.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions raised by Senators Kazimierz Kleina and Jan Maria Jackowski. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj to speak. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal, I understand I have eight minutes left. I'll try not to make full use of that time. Minister! High Izbo! During our previous term of office, we have dealt with matters relating to payment services on several occasions. It was so lucky for me that I was, together with Senator Kleina, the rapporteur of most of these draft laws, which, as the Minister explained, introduced a lot of facilitations. Senator Bierecki was talking about what this bill brings with it. What you asked Senator Jackowski... There's another very important element here. Traditional money takes up 0.9% , almost 1% gross domestic product. Except for the safety, except for the elements that were mentioned here... This is an important element concerning the costs of the Polish state when it comes to traditional money. Therefore, it is in the wider interest of both the Polish state and the citizen to bank the public by extending the possibility of using electronic cards as much as possible. You can talk about this law in superlative terms, but now I'd like to talk about two or three things that I think, with good will, could be taken into account. I know that Senator Kleina will be making amendments, which in turn would help to improve the bill. Important, Minister, is what you said: good solutions, even from the previous period, from the times of the Civic Platform and PSL governments, should be preserved and those that were bad should be corrected. This is the proper continuity of power It's not revolutionary to change everything. An example of this is the draft law. What had to be further clarified, given the directives plus experience, in most cases... Like I said, two things I'd like to draw attention to. Firstly, the Polish Bank Payment Institutions Organisation proposed 5 minor amendments, which in our assessment did not make the bill any worse, or even better. You can say that players in the market are bank institutions, cooperative savings banks, payment institutions and electronic money institutions. These are the 4 main operators in the electronic services market. If we assume that the inequality of entities... I'll get back to the issue of punishment. Of course, the penalty is, as Senator Grabowski said at the committee meeting, purely hypothetical, as the Minister also confirmed. These are hypothetical things, but they show what the approach to the subject is. The proposal for a penalty of PLN 1 million is a maximum. For all the actors it had this advantage, Minister, that... it fell during the discussion. We write that punishment can be 1 million zlotys, but KNF in its wisdom After all, it is an organ of the Polish state It takes into account the size of assets, turnovers and other factors and imposes penalties not of PLN 1 million for each, but only on the basis of all these factors, on a proportionate basis. And for those with a balance sheet total of 50, 80, 100 billion, of course, the penalty will be higher than for a cooperative bank with ten times smaller assets. One breach was made: that's what happened to the so-called. This potential punishment can only amount to PLN 100,000. I understand the translation of the Minister: we could not for cooperative banks, we introduced at least for the SKOKs. It's like an unjustified preference for cooperative savings banks... After all, there is no concern that the KNF, given the hypothetical penalty due to its failure to agree to an account with the SKOKs, will initiate proceedings and will want to impose this penalty. And she'll take into account elements like the size of banks, turnover, assets and other things. I don't believe that KNF will measure evenly. SKOK-i, cooperative banks and large banks. Today we have such a situation that a small bank, twice the size of the SKOK cooperative bank, will be able to Hypothetically . be punished with a higher penalty than the SFOK with more turnover, larger assets and more market share. This is an inequality of entities, Minister. As the Minister says that we are turning towards entrepreneurship, I welcome it with great joy, but let us turn to everyone in the same way. And if we can't apply an equal measure to everyone within a given project, then let's do a bill that will treat everyone equally. The idea is to measure all four entities by the same measure, not by the same measure, not by the same measure, but by the same measure. The same is true of the other 4 proposals submitted by the Polish Organisation of Non-banking Payment Institutions. If the proposal is to allow the use of unique identifiers used before the introduction of the law, then... Again they were introduced for a 3-year period only for SKOKs. Of course, the Ministry's representatives have an explanation for why I think maybe we'll hear it today. After all, nothing prevented the SKOKs and other payment organisations operating on the payment market from being treated in an equal way. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. SCOC's been selected. I don't know why. If we are talking about the issue of enabling direct debits to be executed, here again the situation is that these electronic payment executions are made possible in the bank's relations, because this is... In addition to this draft law, the bank's relations are introduced SKOK, SKOK, but the other 2 organisations that I have mentioned are not included in this system. They're small things, they're not gonna tear down the whole system, but they show that among equals they're just as much equal and where they can be helped... I would like to say that, personally, despite these shortcomings, which are evident and concern the unequal treatment of market players, I will vote in favour of this law, because it mostly brings good solutions, and the unequal treatment of these customers will not destroy them anyway. I would just like to ask that, in the future, what concerns equal treatment of players in the payment services market is a reality and not just an empty declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u41	Thank you very much, Senator. I hereby announce a recess until 12.30 and invite you to the opening of the exhibition. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 00 to 12 minutes 34]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws. Let's get back to the discussion. I'll ask Senator Robert Dowhan to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u42	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, my previous speaker has already said everything. But I would like to express my satisfaction that this is a continuation. the actions we took during the previous term of office, during the Citizen Platform and PSL governments. It is the right direction that something that is good is improving today. I don't think there'll be any votes against voting on this bill. As I said, this direction is right and that is how we should act. As for the punishments, because today this issue was raised and there was a discussion... I also believe that the penalty should be equal for all actors. It is no problem to implement these rules, after all they are not so difficult that today banks or SKOKs, or cooperative banks, cannot apply them and act as this law will. Perhaps it is better to obey the law today than later to object to why some are punished in this way and others in another way. I'm sure I'd still consider it for the ministry, so as not now, I'd consider it in the future. But I hope that we will respect this law more than apply those penalties which, of course, should be harsh, severe, because then the penalty has such a dimension that it makes, as the Minister said here, banks are doing everything according to the law. But the most important thing is that today is really You can even say that funny. We have a promotion when it comes to bank accounts. Because, in fact, so far, people who haven't set up a bank account are mostly older people who don't really know electronics, they don't really trust banking institutions with different activities over the last few years. Surely this is such a promotion, because no one will be afraid to start this ancillary account today, because on the one hand it will be free, and on the other hand it will also be free to use the several instruments that this account gives. Surely there is also a need for promotion among older people, a promotion addressed especially to those whose money is provided on the basis of transfers or by posters, so that people are not afraid to use this bank account. Because tonight, someone who doesn't have a bank account doesn't really exist in this world where we're gonna buy or sell most things virtually, and money will only appear on all kinds of bills. Today, the service of money itself, as we well know, is very expensive. Its collection, storage costs, and it doesn't cost very little. But it is also a nice gesture to those affected by recent changes in the introduction of banking tax. As we know, the bank tax was not supposed to touch people who have bank accounts, and as it turns out, one of the first was WBK, because I have an account at Bank Zachodni WBK, where you were previously head of Prime Minister Morawiecki . plus our PKO, PKO Bank Polski, which was given as an example of a bank that would not increase the commission... They introduced various types of charges, limits on the use of ATMs, limits on the use of transfers which were previously covered by different lump sums and were small amounts. Today it is also a step in this direction, to just pass on to people to take advantage of this form. And I'm glad it's going that way. And finally. That's the password that came out today. Maybe it's not a password, maybe the case is already under way, but the Minister didn't say so. That the system is thought of or a Polish payment system is created, which will compete with existing systems. I think it's a good initiative, but it requires a really big commitment. This would undoubtedly be a great competition. I hope these aren't just empty words, and it's not gonna be like we're gonna create, let's say, some company or institution where people are gonna work, and it's not gonna be competitive with current banking services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Kazimierz Kleina to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm glad we're working on this bill, an important bill, a good one, a need. This law cleans up the payment services market and at the same time opens up new opportunities, arranges supervision of payment service companies and gives new privileges to customers using payment accounts services. I am also pleased with the information presented by the Minister that work on the national payment card is underway. It's important. And I'm glad that we'll get the Senator Jackowski and I. The answer to which will be information on the work on this important project. Perhaps it would be worth asking Senator Bierecki, the chairman of our committee, to arrange a meeting to present the achievements of the Ministry of Development working on the card. And it would indeed be good for all interested senators, or perhaps for outsiders, to make such a meeting, because it would be in some sense also to maintain the involvement of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance in these payment services and cards. But I'm going back to this bill, like I said, good and worth supporting. However, I would like to make an amendment. Maybe she will be supported by a committee and then our entire team. This amendment would clarify the issue of penalties imposed by the Financial Supervision Commission. We have been very clear about this at the committee meeting, and also today, during the questions addressed to the Minister. And I think that in practice KNF's actions... If there were such a situation that there would be breaches related to the provision of basic payment account services or the transfer of these services by individual banks or cooperative credit savings banks, then penalties imposed by KNF in situations like I said, purely theoretical, would be appropriate to institutions and offences. But so that it doesn't feel like we're distinguishing some institution at the expense of another... This is particularly the case here, as I said, about small cooperative banks, which often feel discredited, that they are in a worse situation than others, even though we are trying on various occasions and in various laws to introduce such rules so that these small banks are in a good position. However, creating such a situation that there is some disharmony does not encourage activity in local financial institutions such as cooperative banks. I therefore make an amendment which reduces this penalty in its entirety to half a million zlotys. And this maximum penalty would apply to banks and to all other market players. It would be punishment, it seems, very high for these crimes, but also equal for everyone. Please support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u45	Thank you, Senator. I understand you're making an amendment. Please, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After listening to my previous speaker, there's only one thing I can say. Well, as you can see, the gardener's dog philosophy is still not rooted out of the Civic Platform environment, because it's a proposal to raise the penalty of one sector, five times. In fact, the penalty for this sector, on behalf of which the senator is now performing so beautifully, although the minister pointed out that what happened, the need for differentiation is due to long-term negligence, omissions in the proper regulation of supervision of the cooperative banking sector. And the government of the Civic Platform and PSL is responsible for this, which for 8 years has been responsible for 8 years! It led to a level playing field between supervisory positions, the supervisory situation of cooperative banks and commercial banks, thus hindering the functioning of the cooperative banking sector. I would just like to remind you how long it took for cooperative banks to be able to capitalize on the first level, this TR1, to include members of cooperative banks who brought their capital in the form of shares in their bank. It was only the amendment that we introduced in the Bank Guarantee Fund Act that made it possible or... In other words, she has abolished this absolute discrimination against cooperative banks. Nothing's been done for many years. Now, as I understand it, there is a need for political play on penalties that are irrelevant. The Minister said that the crushing of copies is about something that is completely irrelevant. Can you imagine that one of the institutions obliged to keep these free bank accounts will not do this? I mean, banks pay good money to get a client. Anyone who has a bank account at a bank can read to himself what benefits a bank client offers to a bank client for locating his bank to another client. So this is an absolutely absurd discussion that is purely political in nature and is intended to cause anxiety in the cooperative banks' environment. And this environment should hear one thing: now it's about repairing what the previous governments have allowed to do, as you have allowed in previous terms. The lack of differentiation in the supervisory situation of large commercial banks and cooperative banks, which in Poland are a very important part of the financial sector. It was necessary to work on directives which now force us to put cooperative banks in a single bag with large, commercial banks, when these directives were prepared, to apply on behalf of the Polish government for different regulations, for different regulations for cooperative banks. It wasn't done. Too much was listened to, too often listened to the Association of Polish Banks, which always appeared here in the interest and at the request of large commercial banks, unfortunately with foreign capital. So this gardener dog philosophy is an absolutely wrong approach. Taking advantage of others or putting more burdens on others because others still have too much burdens for a while is not the right regulatory philosophy that we should be guided by in this House. The fact that another sector will have slightly lower penalties is a very important reference point for cooperative banks, in some sense it sets a level for the future for the change in the regulations that should take place. After all, the Minister declared that such a change would take place, that the current Polish government, which appreciates the functioning of cooperative banks, would seek to distinguish between their regulatory and supervisory positions at European level. So that I do not encourage you, Senator, to support your amendment, which is an example of the philosophy of the gardener's dog, which is inappropriate, harmful to the development of the cooperative banking sector. The cooperative banking sector needs a reference point, an indication of some similarities, adequacy... the fact that another sector will now benefit... is already a supervisoryly differentiated argument for the diversity of positions in cooperative banks. So I do not encourage you to remove this differentiation, on the contrary I encourage you to point out this diversity and demand that cooperative banks receive similar arrangements as soon as possible as possible as soon as we can remedy the consequences of the failure of the previous government. But I understand that some people have that attitude, too, and I want that cow to die. Well, it's such a very harmful feeling. That's the kind of feeling you have to confess, Senator. As far as the need for a committee meeting on the Polish payment system is concerned, I welcome your initiative. We agreed during the break with Director Bulgaria that we would try to organize this in the second half of January, once we have dealt with the budget, we would be after our toughest commission work. In the second half of January we would do such a meeting with people who are involved in the construction of the said Polish payment system. This is a very important undertaking, after all, we will all be proud and happy to use the Polish payment card, which will be better, cheaper, will work great, will not have a Visa or MasterCard sign, but after crossing the Polish border will miraculously turn into a card recognizable by foreign systems. As is the case with cards issued in Denmark or Germany, for the benefit of consumers. So we're gonna organize this meeting to find out if there's any need to make any changes to the law or if we don't need our help in implementing this important project. But what I'm saying is... And I would also like to thank Senator Kleina for his support for the initiative of the Government of Law and Justice and for the initiative of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who made one of the most important elements of his programme from this Polish Charter project. Yes, it is very important to spread non-cash turnover, but based on the Polish card. This is an important element of the development of the Polish economy. If we were to promote non-cash, card-based turnover, but not for the Polish card system, only for Visa and MasterCard, then we would probably be, so to speak, marketers of foreign payment organizations. And what we are talking about here will be a Polish product, a Polish card system, which works very well for the benefit of our citizens, and is under the full control of Polish financial institutions. In conclusion, what can I say... I still have to hook up with Senator Czarnobaj, who was bothering me... [[Time, Senator, time.]] I see he signed up... Lucky for you, Senator, there are skoks, because by the way, you have a lot to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u47	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, please speak. That's the second speech, so five minutes, Senator. [[Two minutes, Miss Marshal, I've got it. As I understand it, your marshal no longer remembers.]] Mr. Senator, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll begin, Senator, with this harassment. I'd like to ask the senator, at the committee meeting, and here, for the senator to be the first of the equals, and for you to get away from lobbying for the SKOKs. You're the senator... [[I think you're gonna apologize to me for that.]] Mrs. Marshal, can I ask you not to comment? [[You're gonna apologize for that.]] Well, Mr. Senator, you were talking about some dogs, cows... [[Excuse me. Quiet, please.]] Well, I don't want to tell you what kind of animal that is, what you're doing. So, please, sir, I'd like a moment of peace. I'd like to comment on what you just said. Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator... [[What kind of animal do you identify with?]] [[Quiet, please. Mr. Senator, you'll be able to comment on the senator's statement in a moment.]] I'd like to say again... Maybe you didn't really understand what we had in mind with the senator. We don't want to take anything from anyone. And you want... you put it this way: because you can't give the cooperative banks, let's give the SKOKs. That's your philosophy, Senator. And I don't think so. And don't compare us that there's a gardener's dog or a cow or anything... This is the level that you represent, and I'm not going to stoop to it, and I'm not going to tell you what animal I'm comparing you to or what animal I am. I'd like to ask you to understand the idea of what we're saying. We are talking about the fact that equality of operators in the market, and especially in the financial market, is the foundation of the state. Similarly, equality between actors in relation to penalties and proceedings is such an element of the state. And since you're talking about supervision of cooperative banks, bad supervision... Well, of course I'm signing off on it, because I'm sure... I'm not authorized. 'Cause I didn't follow it closely. To tell you where the mistake was made when it comes to cooperative banks, involving them on an equal footing with commercial banks, but now that this is being undone, I understand that we have had this opportunity and we have not taken advantage of it. So here, of course, I sign because it was the weakness of these negotiations, Mr. Senator. But that's what it's... [[But it was...]] That's why there's a consequence of power to eliminate such things. And I am signing off on this project that the Minister presented on behalf of the Members of Parliament... excuse me, on behalf of the Government. Yeah, I'm sorry, on behalf of the government, as part of a government project. But while we're talking surveillance, I'm gonna remind you of the battle here about this important supervision of the SKOKs, Mr. Senator. After all, you were the advocate... You then again represented the lobby for not including SKOKs in equal treatment in the financial supervision market. After all, you defended it so the SKOKs wouldn't enter, God forbid, under the supervision of the KNF. And now that we're talking about mistakes, I want to say this: those mistakes that have been made... I don't know exactly how much has been paid so far. No, out of 200 million, maybe 300 million zlotys from the Bank Guarantee Fund to cooperative banks, throughout the history of bailing out cooperative banks. But do you know how much money has been paid to save the SKOKs? If you don't know, I'll say... [[It's not for saving skoks, it's for paying people out of the fund...]] [[I'm sorry, but please be quiet. Mr. Senator, you're about to speak.]] ...how much it was to save the SKOKs, that is, to pay people the money they had placed in the SKOKs. More than PLN 5 billion. And that's the measure! We've made mistakes, and you're probably making mistakes, and you're gonna make mistakes, but the wisdom is, Senator, that we don't compare ourselves to animals. That shouldn't be in parliament. And let's not say, and you guys used to look at me crookedly... It's just that there's a specific bill and we're asking you to consider whether it's worth it to differentiate, to favor the SKOKs, because you're lobbying for them. And returning to history, I would add that it is your lobbying and lobbying a wider group of people from Law and Justice that costs Polish taxpayers more than PLN 5 billion. And that's the difference in lobbying. We made mistakes, you probably fix them when it comes to cooperative banks... And I'm glad because I'm here to make a declaration. An eternal customer of the cooperative bank. Well, nothing ties a man to a bank like a loan. And that's why I'm a member of this bank. I appeal once again, Senator: we do not want to increase the penalties, we believe in the wisdom of the KNF as a body of state, and we want all actors, including in the area you represent, to be treated equally, without the possibility of privileged. And that's what our fight is all about, our amendment. Now, once again, I would like to declare that I myself will vote in favour of this bill because, despite the shortcomings, it is a good law that goes in the right direction. [[Applause]] [[And bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u49	Thank you, Senator. [[But for what you said, I'm gonna report it to the ethics committee...]] [[Excuse me?]] [[For what you said, I'm gonna put the case on the ethics committee. Unless you apologize...]] And Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go. You have five minutes, too, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I probably wouldn't have tabled an amendment if the government's submission had been accepted in the Sejm as well. But it was at the seym stage, as a result of lobbying individual groups, that penalty was changed, and it was reduced tenfold. So it is not what Senator Bierecki is trying to tell us, that this is our Polish government finally introducing and proposing only such good solutions. However, the government proposed a uniform penalty for all actors. On the occasion of the work on the Payment Services Act, during the work in the Sejm, a number of other provisions were introduced, which placed only one group of financial institutions in a privileged position. I asked the Minister about it, but it was my question that slipped away later in the answer. But that was the case, in fact, that it was during the parliamentary work that these rules were changed. So making this a big success, including the government, is a little inappropriate and inappropriate. The government wanted this punishment to be set maximum for everyone so that it would be the same for everyone. That's why we're having this discussion and this debate. She is showing such an attempt to lobby outside the system. I will not refer to all of these, so to speak, the delicate malice of Senator Bierecki, but I would like to say that I am, of course, pleased with the achievements of this government... You have to remember that, Senator, this is a continuation of your work on the card. In the bill, which was an initiative of the Senate, we have stated that one of the advantages of a national card will be the possibility of using other fees than in the normal interchange system. Then work began in the government. One government, so to speak, finished, came the next and began the continuation. If you had listened sometimes to the words of the ministers who are attending our meetings, you would have noticed that a large part of the legislation is a continuation of the work of the predecessors, so discrediting all of this and condemning it is inappropriate. In time, you will be in a similar situation: someone else will come and work on this acquis, which will be the work of presently working officials, ministers, etc. You just need to be reasonable and reasonable here. We're about to move on to the bill on... [[National Tax Administration.]] ...the tax administration and it will also appear that it was in the Sejm that tried to corrupt this bill and limit the rights of different people. So you just need to be reasonable and reasonable in every action, especially when you say words. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u51	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. Also a second speech and 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u52	Thank you very much. Very short and less humorous, because not everyone has a sense of humor, as you can see. [[We laughed in the armpits.]] [[Applause]] [[Quiet, please!]] Senator Czarnobaj, I laughed when you gave those numbers you didn't check, and when you talked about lobbying, accusing me of lobbying as a senator of the Republic of Poland. Of course, this is a violation of the rules of procedure, and I hope you'll apologize for that, or we'll have to settle this in the Rules of Procedure Committee. I'm going to demand a reminder for you, because, of course, you've crossed the line on this case, so... And the numbers are worth checking before you give them, because the numbers you gave are incorrect. [[But close...]] But to refer to the merits of this dispute, I'm going to say... Gentlemen, senators are demanding some level playing field in the market, but this equality, ladies and gentlemen, does not mean justice. If two people carry the same weight, but they're different sizes, somebody's working harder. The cooperative banks have come to a regulatory situation... Many presidents of cooperative banks have told me this, after all, I am in constant contact with this environment. There was a situation that in a bank that employs 20 and 30 people, suddenly 5 people only deal with reporting, sending further documents, papers. It's done by five people out of 30. In a large bank, which employs 1,000 people, 5 people are involved, but here the burden is completely different. Yes? This weight is different, so it doesn't always mean fair and doesn't always mean fair. The founding fathers of the European Union have recognised the principle of proportionality, yes, proportionality, as a principle which we are to follow when it comes to lawmaking. That's the most important rule. Not some deluded equality on the market, very misunderstood. So I call on the senators to understand the principle of proportionality and to wish to make amendments extending this principle of proportionality to the sector that should benefit from it, which should be proportionate, because the supervisory burdens imposed on it should be proportionate to its size and capabilities, but also to its supervisory needs. Because it is often for the convenience of officials to push everyone under the same scissors, into the same frame, not considering that it is not really important; that some of the information that this small cooperative bank has to produce from a supervisory point of view is not important; that there is a materiality level; that a materiality test should be carried out on the information that is obtained from these banks, that is, the reporting that is required of them. So let's apply the principle of proportionality, let's not be driven by bad feelings, let's not be gardeners.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u53	Thank you, Senator. [[Me, Mrs. Marshal, as a correction.]] Please, as a correction. Out of place, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u54	Good. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! My name came up here. If I'm wrong and you haven't lobbied during your senatorship, then, of course, I'm gonna apologize, but we need to be clear... [[You can do it now.]] I'll show you what I consider lobbying. If you think it wasn't lobbying, you're gonna make that conclusion. That's one thing. And, secondly, I'd like to say again... We may not be very clear in Polish, but I would like you to understand the issue: equality against the law and the difference between unequal burdens. We're not talking about an equal burden on the cooperative bank and the SKOK. We're talking about an equal approach to the law. And what is in this section on penalties is not an equal approach to the law. We have never demanded that a smaller one should pay more than a great one, or the other way around. This is where we stand and we stand. And even this will apply to SKOK, if there is a law that will also approach SKOK in a clear and equal way before the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u55	Okay, thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Kazimierz Klein. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: No.]] Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We move on to the next item on the agenda. We proceed with the joint examination of item 2 and item 3 of the agenda: the National Tax Administration Act and the Law on National Tax Administration. The texts of the laws are contained in prints 312 and 313 and the Commission's reports In the letters No 312 A and No 313 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present the reports of the committee on the National Tax Administration Act and the Law on National Tax Administration. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances was sitting until late evening hours, giving an opinion on 2 laws: the National Tax Administration Act and the Law on National Tax Administration. At the committee meeting you were Minister Marian Banaś of the Ministry of Finance together with your colleagues. There were also representatives of trade unions: federations of trade unions customs officers, NSZZ These laws, because I understand that in my speech I will refer to both laws within the framework of the aggregate report were... Both of these laws were parliamentary projects. Mr Wojciech Murdzek came to the committee meeting from the Sejm, who answered the questions of the senators and invited guests. These laws were adopted by the Sejm at its twenty-eighth meeting on 21 October this year. The National Tax Administration Act, which will introduce this National Tax Administration... It will be a specialised government administration carrying out revenue implementation tasks for the budget for taxes, customs duties, levies and other non-tax charges to the budget. It will also protect the interests of the Treasury and protect the customs territory of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a de facto very important act, because in practice it changes the structure and functioning of the fiscal apparatus and customs apparatus. So far, we've had a messed-up tax and customs administration. The tax administration was created by 16 tax houses and 400 tax offices. The customs administration was established by 16 customs chambers, 45 customs offices and 141 customs departments. And there was also a tax check, which was made up of 16 tax check rooms. This fragmentation of structures made it difficult to manage such a large administration. Let me remind you that there are about 65 000 people employed in the administration so far. Sometimes the tasks were duplicated, sometimes there were differences in the approach of different institutions to tax control. As a result of the analysis, the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Finance... The original intentions in connection with this analysis appeared in 2005 and 2007 in the management of the Ministry of Finance at that time. Today, the current management has decided to return to these concepts of creating a single National Tax Administration. There are different models in the countries of the European Union, but also around the world. There are scattered administrations and there are centralised administrations. With us, this model of non-centralized administration over the years has not fully fulfilled its role, because we have giant tax fraud, a giant tax collection deficiency. We are not here, of course, talking about an increase in taxes, but about the fact that the execution of those taxes that are already passed is not always effective. This law introduces a single tax administration. It is worth mentioning here that today in Poland The cost of tax collection by the tax administration is 1.6%. all taxes collected, e.g. in Spain it is 0.67% So if, as I say, we integrate this service, we will be able to count not only on increasing efficiency, but also on the savings that I will talk about later. New bodies will be part of this consolidated tax administration since the entry into force of the Act. These authorities will be the Minister of Finance, the Head of the National Tax Administration, the Director of the Tax Administration, the Head of the Tax Office, the Head of the Customs and Treasury Office, and the Director of the National Tax Information. The Minister will be responsible for all the supervision of the tax administration and will set the objectives of this administration within the framework of the 4-year plans. The Head of National Tax Administration will be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister responsible for Finance and will have the status of Secretary of State in the Ministry of Finance. It will also be possible to appoint three Deputy Head of National Tax Administration as Undersecretaries of the States. These bodies, of course, will carry out their functions through the proper offices: the Minister of Finance through the Ministry of Finance, the Director of the tax administration through the tax administration chamber, the head of the tax office through the tax office, the head of the customs and treasury office through the customs and treasury office. National Tax Information, National Tax School and National Tax Administration Information Centre will also be established. Ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of the National Tax Administration, there will also be a separate Customs-Skarbowa Service. It will be a uniformed service that will be built on the basis of the current Customs Service. It will, of course, be able to carry out operational and exploratory activities in the field of tax and customs offences. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already mentioned, National Tax Information will also be established. It will be headed by the Director of National Tax Information. National Revenue Information will have 2 tasks. The first task, such as fundamental and most important, is to issue individual tax rulings, and the second function, also important, is informative and educational. The National Treasury School will also be established. It will be a place to increase the knowledge, skills and competences of all employees who will work within the framework of the National Tax Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, the authors of this bill also want to greatly appreciate the role of the National Tax Administration, so these best elements of the Customs Service and the current tax administration will be transferred. The National Tax Administration will have a banner, there will be new identity models, the day of September 21 will be the celebration of the National Tax Administration. Awards will also be awarded for the National Tax Administration. We take it, so to speak, that the external elements that function today within the Customs Service. Ladies and gentlemen, so far they will be able to rise... Maybe it's different. The Minister of Finance shall, by means of a regulation in agreement with the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, determine the territorial scope of the various customs offices, customs offices and customs and treasury offices. They will also arise. It's also possible now. .. such tax offices that will serve selected taxpayers for example. for the type of business carried on. Maybe I won't talk about who's calling, because we'd be... The primary tax collection unit will, of course, be the tax office, the head of the tax office or the head of the customs and treasury office. There will also be an uprising, as I mentioned earlier, of the IT Center of KAS. It will be created on the basis of the Department of Informationization of the Ministry of Finance and will manage the entire IT system within the National Tax Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps a word about another element that will probably be of interest to the gathered here. There will also be changes in employment. During the discussion at the committee meeting, the Minister announced that no mass lay-offs were planned. Over 5 000 people have acquired pension rights and if there is a reduction in employment, it will first concern those who have acquired pension rights. Ladies and gentlemen, in the new structure, people who have cooperated with the safety camera will not be able to function. Therefore, persons born before 1972 will have to make a statement that such cooperation or work for the security authorities of the Polish People's Republic did not provide any evidence. All staff shall undergo a maximum of 30 June 2017... Maybe it's different. On the date of entry into force of the Act, all employees move to new structures and have this work guaranteed by 30 June 2017. By May 31, everyone will be offered proposals... people who do not accept these proposals or do not receive them will have to part with the National Tax Administration. So much for the bill itself. As regards the work of the committee yesterday on these two draft laws, the Legislative Office has prepared its proposals for amendments. The National Tax Administration Act was prepared by the Legislative Bureau in part by 16 amendments, but most of them were legislative amendments. Some of these proposals have not resulted in concrete changes to the records... If I am not mistaken, the majority, and not even the majority, were accepted by the Ministry of Finance immediately or after some modification, because some amendments were made at the committee meeting. As regards the second law, the provisions introducing the National Tax Administration Act, the Legislative Office made 21 amendments to it and they were also very different in nature. Of course, because we're completely changing the tax structure, it's all broken. On the one hand, we introduce... One law introduces the National Tax Administration, and the other law introduces changes and transitional provisions. The introduction of the National Tax Administration requires an amendment to 157 laws. It is the transitional provisions, the amendments to the various laws, which concern the second law, i.e. the law implementing the Act on National Tax Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that amendments have been tabled, both to the first and to the second act... Senators Grzegorz Bierecki, Tadeusz Romanczuk and Krzysztof Mróz have submitted, so to speak, 2 types, 2 groups of amendments. The first group of amendments responds to the expectations of airport workers and trade unionists. We've made changes to the article. 2 by repealing point 12 and in Article. In Article 33, the following paragraph is added: 133... In general, it is the removal from the tasks of the National Tax Administration of carrying out checks on persons, baggage, mail, in-flight supplies, airport supplies for air transport and in the area of transition from the public area to the restricted area of the airport. At Parliament level, in the Sejm, Members introduced 'Cause it wasn't in the project. . changes in the area of aviation law. And we are eliminating this element in this law with these amendments. These amendments were recognised and supported by the Ministry of Finance, and Mr Murdzek, who was at the committee meeting, declared that he would do everything he could to ensure that they were accepted also in the Sejm. And this is one group of amendments. They were, of course, filed both with regard to the National Tax Administration Act and to the Second Tax Administration Act, which introduced the National Tax Administration Act. The second point on which the amendment was subject is to postpone the date of entry into force of the law. The Act was originally intended to enter into force on 1 January 2017. We propose that this law should enter into force on 1 March 2017. This is motivated by the fact that a number of implementing provisions have to be issued for this law, and this requires consultation. We've experienced it ourselves... Guess each of your senators got a lot of e-mails from different organizations, trade unions. And in order to give the Minister time for good consultation of ideas for implementing rules, we propose that the date of entry into force of the law be postponed to 1 March 2017. In view of the delay in the date of entry into force of the Act, the deadlines for the employment guarantee shall not be exceeded until 30 June 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result... Because we voted on the amendments in the blocks. As a result of voting these amendments in the report on the National Tax Administration Act, you have 14 amendments, while the amendments to the provisions introducing the National Tax Administration Act are 40. This is due to the fact that some of the amendments proposed by the Senators or amendments adopted en block as part of the Legislative Office's proposal had to be broken down in practice. Hence, there is a little more to these amendments than is apparent from the opinion of the Legislative Bureau or from the number of amendments made by the Senator Bierecki, Senator Romanczuk and Senator Frost. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Mr. Senator, the report may take 20 minutes.]] I'm almost done. I would just like to say that Senators Kazimierz Klein and Leszek Czarnobaj filed a motion to reject the bill. This request was not supported by the committee.6 votes against, 2 votes against. Most of the votes were the same. The committee accepted the adoption of this law together with the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u57	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I know that's the question Senator Barbara Zdrojewska wants to ask you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u58	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Dear Senator, rapporteur, Because this is another time when the bill is thrown into the Sejm and the Senate by a kind of back door, which is by means of a parliamentary project... What does that mean? Among other things, this means that there is no adequate, comprehensive consultation, for which the State, as the Law and Justice, does not decide, but introduces parliamentary projects. You interchangeably use the terms "ministership" or "authors." Let's just say, the author is just the ministry, he's just introducing the project through the back door, and that's how I understand it. I'm asking the senator how he's gonna explain this. What has the government been doing for the past year, since it can't do such an important bill, destroying such important fiscal service in Wrocław or changing it... What has the government been doing this whole year with a parliamentary project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u59	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, we're gonna block. Senator Slugocki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I have a question. You spent a lot of time in your speech to the IRS under the conditions of applicable law. I would like to ask you directly whether the Members who have tabled this bill can precisely indicate the number of employees employed today in the Treasury. And what will this number of employees look like after the introduction of this law, after the entry into force of this law? I think, among other things. the representatives of customs services present here. And here's my question, Senator... Because this is another bill in which you try to manage Poland by firing competent, well-qualified workers. The cost of preparing them, gaining experience costs a lot of funding from the state budget. Does one of the good changes reflect on how much it costs to prepare a competent official in Poland? Do you not give up too easily from the potential that has been in Poland for many, many years No matter who is in charge of Poland, who are we building? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u61	Thank you. And Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I will not ask those questions that were raised at the committee meeting, where the discussion continued until late. However, there was something in your speech that is very interesting. The percentage of costs in the Polish administration of these 3 units is 1.6% the amounts of taxes, duties, etc. collected there. And I understand that we want to move to a level in Ireland and Spain, which is 0.8%. Could you please... I understand you put it as a pattern. Would you mind saying... Because yesterday during the discussion, none of the employees in this fantastic reform In quotation marks He won't leave or take off his uniform. I would like to ask, since you recall this indicator, how do you want to achieve this so that it is 0.8%. That's one question. And the other one that's involved. Would you mind serving it? If you don't, I'll ask the Minister. How much is the cost of wages in all this cost... Well, since you know that we have such a high, twice as high as in Ireland and Spain, I think you'll know what the total cost of the operation of the tax offices, customs offices, etc., etc. is. And if you don't, I'm redirecting this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u63	Thank you. Please respond to the rapporteur's senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u64	To answer Senator Zdrojewska's question... Well, Senator, you know it's legal. Draft laws can be submitted by Members, they can report to the Government, they can be citizens' projects, and we, as Senate, have a legislative initiative. There are listed bodies in the Constitution that have a legislative initiative, and this draft law has been tabled by Members. Of course, this is a very complicated project. I am not an MEP, but I can say that I am sure that my colleagues who applied for this project had to contact the Ministry of Finance during the drafting of such a bill. As for the lack of consultation... You know that we have just postponed the date of entry into force of the law by two months to give time to consult... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...a number of implementing rules that he will have to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...Mr. Senator, release the minister responsible for public finances. Period. As for the answer to Senator Slugocki's question... It was such a question: what do the Members think? Well, it's hard for me to answer that question... [[I'm not asking what they think, I'm asking if they have any knowledge...]] Please? [[Do they have knowledge? If they have submitted a bill, they must have some knowledge, at least a minimum knowledge.]] Mr. Senator... [[Senator, let the senator answer the rapporteur.]] Mr Senator, unfortunately there are no applicants today when it comes to Members. Yesterday was Mr Wojciech Murdzek, who would probably answer your question. I cannot answer the question of what they want or what they think or what they know... [[Or do you know, Mr. Senator, what the tax administration in Poland looks like today? And what model are we going to and why?]] The tax administration, as justified by the law, employs about 65 thousand people, the entire tax and customs administration today. [[And after the bill came into force?]] [[Mr. Senator, please don't get into this discussion. You'll be able to ask later. Now I'm asking the senator to answer the questions that have been asked.]] As for the answer to Senator Leszek Czarnobaj's question, I have no knowledge of that amount because no one asked such a question. Which you know very well. At the committee meeting. What is the payroll fund in the whole tax and customs administration currently in operation? I find it difficult to answer that question, because nobody asked it at the committee meeting and nobody raised it, nor was there such information in the justification of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u65	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I know, I may look like I don't remember what happened yesterday, but I do remember that there were no questions on this matter in the committee, but you made a very interesting point in your speech, that in Spain and Ireland this figure of the amount and cost obtained is 0.8%. And here's 1.6%. I'm asking you a question about your speech. Are we aiming for a 0.8% model? And if we strive, what are the overall costs? I'm not asking about the pay. How much is the total cost of Polish tax, customs and tax systems, i.e. these 3 verticals? Now that you've given those numbers... If you don't know, I'll ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u67	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u68	Mr. Senator, I gave as an example that all of our current fiscal and customs administration, which collects all tax, non-tax and customs charges... The cost of this service is 1.6% revenue collected. I think everyone should care that this cost is as small as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u69	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Piotr Florek. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! Short three questions. What is the purpose of the law, and does the procedure for introducing these amendments guarantee that this is achieved? You said it was a two-month extension, which is until March 1st... But if we take into account the time it takes to introduce the implementing rules, it will become clear that there will be some chaos after this has been introduced. Will these objectives be met? What are they like? Second thing. What number of people do you think is mass release? Because you said it wouldn't be mass layoffs. I would also like to know what the employment guarantees will be, what the new employment conditions will be and how many people will be most important. Of the 65,000 you said you were gonna be fired from work. What will the possible transfer look like... These people are worried about their jobs today. These employees, the officers just don't know what's gonna happen to them. The third case concerns airport workers. We've just been discussing what procedures are like here. I would like to point out that this amendment was introduced in the Sejm, that it was the Members of the Law and Justice who introduced this amendment. Now, gentlemen, the three of you are proposing another amendment, and you are proposing not to introduce it. Perhaps you could agree on this sooner. I'm getting lost in this. I don't know if that amendment was... I thought that amendment was really good, and today you're saying that... And there's one more thing about the IRS. I'm talking about how the tax officers' pensions were solved. This is important. As far as I know, they're afraid, too. There's a certain lack of knowledge about how it's gonna look. I'm not a member of the committee, which is why I'm asking these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Boris-Damian. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u72	Thank you. I have, I would say, 2.5 questions, maybe 3. The first question is the following. Did you at the committee's meeting wonder if this was a movement in this matter? It's a weird move. Will it increase the safety of facilities such as airports and the like? This movement brings with it the release of specialized workers. Do we ignore security issues such as airports, control issues, etc., while terrorist incidents continue to threaten us? That is a question for you, but I would also like that to be a question for a government representative. I will have other questions for the government representative concerning, among others. why the government even started working on such a project. Second thing. From your statements and the materials that we have that the legislators have developed after reading this bill... All of this doesn't make any sense at all. What's it done for? What's it done for? I'd like someone to explain to me why they're making such a fuss. Is this supposed to increase financial savings, save people's lives? Is this about letting uncomfortable people go, and sending those who remain to any further positions that are not in line with their profession? These are my three basic questions. If you cannot answer these questions, I would ask that the representative of the government who took these measures and adopted this law respond to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u73	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator George Wright. Let's try to stick to the time, this 1 minute, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I have three questions if I can make it. First question. Why is this bill adopted in this parliamentary mode? Why are you afraid to confront the bill with the ones it concerns? A affects 65 thousand people and only in the field of Customs 30% budgetary revenue of Poland. Don't such data require a little more respect for lawmaking? The second question concerns people being fired. You said, Mr. Senator, you didn't want to fire people. Well, the customs union calculated that at that time when the bill would enter into force, 2,000 211 people would acquire pension rights and that 5 to 8,000 tax collectors would be released. That's how it's estimated. What's gonna happen to the others? It's from 3 to 5,000 people. What's your idea of these people? How are they gonna make a living if they're probably gonna find out a month before they get fired, that they're gonna be fired from this job? Either they're gonna have to drop their uniform, or they're gonna have to face some other consequences of the bill. And the third question. You also said that one of the reasons for the bill and the release or the release of these people is to find out who worked with the security authorities. The Ministry of Finance claims that it does not have any data that could possibly have cooperated with the security authorities. What do you want in the context of 65 thousand people? Within 5 months to check and demonstrate who cooperated with the security authorities? And one last question. What is the procedure for appealing these decisions? These decisions will fall behind the back of today's employees of all the authorities concerned by the law and above all customs officers? How will those affected by these decisions be able to appeal against decisions taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u75	Thank you very much. I ask the Senator rapporteur to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u76	I'm answering Senator Flork's question about the purpose of the bill. Senator, as far as the objectives of the bill are concerned, I would mention 3: firstly, a reduction in tax fraud; secondly, an increase in the efficiency of tax collection and other charges; thirdly, an increase in the quality of service for taxpayers. As far as your second question is concerned, these are the points of the amendment I tabled, among others. together with Senator Grzegorz Bierecki and Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk. I feel like whatever we do is going to be bad. And I have such a feeling that you are dissatisfied that we have tabled this amendment, a nomen omen, supported by your colleagues on the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the proposal made by Members at the committee meeting. Under the influence of the discussion and the influence of what you are talking about, the consultation, we thought that... After all, we, the senators, also receive e-mails and letters about the fact that it is not appropriate for us to change aviation law. Therefore, our amendment concerns the withdrawal of the changes in this area. About... That's about what Senator Boris-Damięcka asked you. Why is the government introducing this bill? I think it's from the targets I was talking about. Although I also think that Minister Banas will be here in a moment, who may be able to respond. I don't have the authority to speak on behalf of the government. And as for the employees... Ladies and gentlemen, you don't seem to think that the government and the parliamentary majority want customs duties not to be collected after these changes, I don't know. It's not like it's a goal to, I don't know, fire 50% of people. After all, the tasks that are carried out by the current tax and customs authorities will not disappear after the law enters into force. We're just transforming this administration to make it more efficient, more efficient. If one man, the finance minister, has the whole pawn, he can. Of course, through the head of the National Tax Administration, effectively manage. At the level of voivodships, current tax chambers, tax offices and customs offices will be connected. This new creation, i.e. the Chamber of Tax Administration, will be, so to speak, in a uniform manner, managing staff, assets, the whole system; it will be more effective, ladies and gentlemen. By introducing National Revenue Information, we will eliminate the element... It is not going to be that the various tax chambers will issue different interpretations in the same case, because it will all be centralised, it will be more effective, at least that is the assumption. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have so much tax fraud today... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please. Gentlemen of the Senators, please be quiet.]] It's estimated that it's a government of 40.80 billion... These are, of course, estimates, but we, as a country, must take action to fight this. And the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, from the very beginning, has presented various kinds of proposals to increase revenue to the state budget, to increase revenue from what you deserve in the light of the rules in force. Because dishonesty is that someone pays taxes and someone else avoids it. And we want those who avoid paying taxes, they're not any entrepreneurs, they're just crooks, because entrepreneurs are those who pay taxes... We need to know that whoever clicks the mouse from the computer and cheats the Treasury is the same criminal as the one who robs the bank. Since this is PLN 40.80 billion today we know this, these are the calculations that the European Commission is talking about. This is what we need to do to increase the efficiency of tax collection. [[But we don't deny it, Senator.]] Changes in the law... In fact, in this term of office, after 10 or 11 months of operation, several proposals have been made for changes to the rules, changes to seal them, fight the VAT carousel, etc. We've already entered an invoice register and more and more... Now we have decided that we also need to improve the tax system. There is one other question: employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister present at the committee's meeting has announced that if there is any staff movement consisting in a reduction in the level of employment, it will first concern those who have acquired pension rights. If we have 65,000 employees and 5,000 employees have acquired pension rights, then... Do you think it can be reduced? That's the maximum... No one said that... the minister at the committee meeting didn't say we'd fire 5,000 people after this reorganization. And even if it were, Theoretically. This cannot be reduced by more than 8 and 10%. And don't disturb the functioning of this camera. If we have a group of employees who have acquired pension rights, then... We have a guarantee and a declaration from the Minister that no one who has many years to retire will lose their job. There's probably gonna be some kind of reorganization, because some institutions are disappearing, and new institutions are emerging. And I am aware that when new institutions are created, there is some change, and naturally there is some fear, some anxiety about what will happen. Yes? I understand that, and that's why we've given a long time since the law came into force to consult all these things, explain. But there is no turning back from this change, because really, ladies and gentlemen, we must start fighting these frauds. This is one of the instruments or one of the methods to increase tax collection efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, we are implementing a 500+ program that costs money. It is enough, Ladies and gentlemen, that half of the money from these frauds that are, we will be able to recover, and we have a funded 500+ program, we do not need to take away anyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u77	Everything, Mr. Senator? [[Yes.]] Good. Thank you very much. And the question is... [[Mrs. Marshal, I haven't heard the answer to any questions.]] [[Voice from the room: That's the point.]] [[Never mind...]] [[Oh, excuse me, Mr. Senator.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u78	You asked me how many employees there were, and I told you, about 65 grand. Is there a matter of appeal... As I understand it, the issue of appeals against... [[From the decision.]] You know, uh... [[From the decision not to extend employment or the decision to terminate... to change the function of an officer to...]] If the superior does not propose the employment of the person concerned or if the person concerned does not accept the employment, the employment or service relationship for the officers shall cease by law on 30 June. [[There's no appeal?]] There's no, well, you know, when something ends... It's a statutory record. [[Voice from the hall: And into the tree.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u79	Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Tomasz Grodzki a question. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u80	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator rapporteur, it seems to me that in order to increase the downloadability, this should not reduce the service, but increase its number. Because if 8 people download 1 thousand zlotys, that's 0.8%. costs, but if the same 8 people download 2 thousand zlotys, it is 0.4% costs. I'd go that way. But that's not what I want to talk about, it's this unfortunate article. 261 law introducing these regulations, because it fits like a nose fist to introduce airport security personnel to customs. And I'd like to get some information. 'Cause I wasn't at the committee meeting and I'm not a member of it. • whether this article received the support of the members of the committee in the vote and what was the ratio of votes. You're reporting a committee meeting, so I'd like to know, as a simple surgeon, who often flies planes. Thank you very much. [[It's not a surgeon. It's a surgeon.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u81	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Sławomir Rybicki. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u82	Thank you very much. Senator, every good bill should have such a thing as an impact assessment. This law is, of course, not fair, it is already at the level of the Parliament's work that several hundred amendments have been made, in the Senate, as we hear, there will be further amendments. Even an expert on Law and Justice, Professor Modzelewski, said that this law should not be passed, because its implementation in the manner proposed by the parliamentary majority will have far-reaching consequences. I believe that the effects of this law, i.e. the impact assessment, have also been the subject of the work of the relevant committees. I would like to ask the senator precisely about this assessment from the point of view of the proper functioning of the entire tax system, as is the transition period, the trial period or the initial functioning of the new apparatus, the consequences, in particular for the tax system, for the size of the revenue, for economic activities, etc., etc. Although the impact assessment should also provide for how many workers will be released and how many will be admitted to work. Please inform me about the impact assessment of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u83	Thank you very much. And you're Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, first of all, I would like to repeat the question that you asked Senator Grodzki, a little modified. Namely, he showed because of the economics that you are going in an absolutely wrong way, for example because... As an entrepreneur, I rarely take a voice here, in the Senate, but I do so when I see nonsense and such proposals that you have often accepted here mostly, although in some time we will meet here again and we will correct it. Senator rapporteur, I firmly believe that life will dictate another change here and we will meet again. Why did I say that? Because I'm a border person and I have a habit of speaking when I meet with the people involved. And believe me, I've met with uniforms on the border. Because I am, as I said, a man bordering So it's about Guben-Sękowice, Gubinek-Sękowice, Olszyna-Forst, Kostrzyn-Kietz, Słubice, Świecko and about the German border. Why am I talking about this? Because I have spoken to these people and I am amazed at the carefree state of what is about to happen to us. It's today... [[Question, Mr. Senator. Because we're at a questioning stage.]] Let me ask you a question. How's that... Massive reductions are coming, but customs and border services are already dropping control due to the lack of a sufficient number of people employed at border crossing points. So, in light of what you just said, how is it, Senator, that you'll be presenting yourself at these borders any moment now? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u85	You're welcome. After three questions... [[But they were already...]] Senator Shark. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u86	There have already been three questions, but thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, did I understand correctly... I also wanted to repeat the question of what is the purpose of implementing this law, and it is within the framework of a fast path, but I will not repeat it again. Let me ask you this: did I understand your reasons for introducing this law correctly, so the main reason is that dishonest officers have been charging too little or not collecting taxes, or that there have been problems with their integrity, and therefore new officers need to be admitted, who will be better placed to do so? If so, I would have two additional questions. I think it is, Senator, that if there are parties... if officers are fired, they will have to be replaced by new ones. 'Cause that's the new rule. So tell me: what will be the procedure for recruiting these workers? Second question: how many workers are protected e.g. A relationship? How many unionists will be protected? And finally, there's a statement. You said that there was a time limit for the entry into force of the Act and that therefore there would be a permanent consultation. But don't you think it should be the other way around? You have said that you will listen to every social voice, and I have an opinion of the trade unions you say you respect, and I see that there is no voice that supports this law. Therefore, I would suggest that we start with a consultation and then move on to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u87	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u88	I'll start by answering Senator Shark's question. You're being dishonest. You used such a formula that I accused someone of dishonesty, that I said that some crooked officers... [[Well, that's what you said.]] ...unfair officers... I didn't use those words, so don't tell me that. I'm not saying that someone is dishonest, that there are some dishonest officers. All I said was that we had to increase the efficiency of tax collection. But it's not a question of dishonesty, is it? Unfairness probably happens, just like in any professional group. As in the case of politicians, doctors or anyone else. And, of course, we probably also hear about dishonest customsmen sometimes, but I hear these words... [[Oh, yeah, dishonest...]] ...I didn't use those words and don't put them in my mouth, 'cause it's just not elegant. [[...to be punished.]] After all, they are generally honest people who will continue to work, and the issue of layoffs turns into every second question. [[The senator is known to change...]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, we don't want to suddenly throw away half the employees of the tax offices or customs offices, because we are here to increase the efficiency of tax collection. Someone has to do it, as Senator Komarnicki rightly said. If there's a shortage of workers somewhere, they'll even be employed. It's not like we're planning on slowing down, especially if there's any cell phones... I think the fact that the customs and treasury administration will be uniform will also allow the head of the National Tax Administration to manage the staff resource efficiently and flexibly. Now I will try to answer these substantive questions, Senator. You were talking about union protection and pre-retirement protection. I can't put it in numbers, but please note that on 30 June I will repeat it again. Whoever doesn't get a proposal will lose his job by law. And there's no protection here. This will be treated as, let's say, liquidation of the workplace. About... Well, I've noticed that I didn't actually answer Senator Wistly to the question of how the Ministry intends to verify who worked with the security authorities. This will be verified in the form of statements. Everyone under criminal responsibility will have to give the real information. If a person fails to give true information, he will be held liable for the false statements of the Penal Code. As for... ladies and gentlemen, all these questions generally come down to the fact that you do not accept the general direction of this change. Well, the point is... [[But we've asked very specific questions.]] [[But what will be the recruitment mode?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the conclusion that the current structure of the fiscal and customs administration does not respond to the challenges facing the 21st century economy today, and we want to adapt it to the centralist model. I was once at a conference that was held today, as I see, by Senator Zientarski, chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, and there it was said that different models were used in different countries of the world. There are models in which the customs service is separate, in which it is connected to the fiscal apparatus, and in which it is organised differently, in which it is directly connected to the central authorities. I think what happened didn't work out, because there's a big gap in unpaid taxes, excise goods, etc. What's going on? Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is your law. When it comes to gambling? There's a bunch of one-armed thugs growing up on every corner. Although de facto no longer seems to be licensed for several years, the number of arcade games in each city is increasing Anyone can check it out. We need to increase the efficiency of the tax and customs administration, and that's why we're bringing it together. We hope that this will have a positive effect.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u89	Mr. Marshal, I didn't get the answer to my question. [[Me too.]] The Senator rapporteur talks about the purpose of the bill, and I asked about the effects of the regulation. [[The rapporteur shall answer as he considers appropriate. You might like it or you might not.]] [[But he should answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u90	Quiet, please. Please answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u91	The only effect presented at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance is that the cost of implementing this law is PLN 4 million. It does not cover possible checks which will have to be paid to those who do not find employment in the new institution. [[Art. 261...]] [[Were those the answers to all the questions?]] Yes. [[So let's move on to the next...]] And there's gonna be a recruitment mode... [[I asked...]] When it comes to recruitment... I'm sorry, but the same question... [[Excuse me, I asked you one specific question: is art. 261 provisions implementing the law were voted out at the committee meeting, and if so, what was the result of the vote? I just want the report from the committee meeting, Senator.]] [[You're welcome.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the recruitment procedure, he has been described very closely in the bill. This is a form of competition. The employees will be employed as employees and officers, because the customs service will be separated... There's just gonna be open calls. And for the executive positions, i.e. the directors of the Boards of National Tax Administration, the heads of the tax offices and the heads of the tax offices and their deputies... This will take place in the form of appointments, i.e. there will be no competitions for executive positions. If there's any more... wait a minute, I'm just gonna check out this article. 261, so I don't make any mistakes, and I'm sure to answer Mr. Senator because... [[This concerns the airport security services to be replaced by the Customs-Scarb Service. This article, as I heard, met with disapproval and was removed by the committee. But I want to know what the vote looked like.]] Mr. Senator, the amendment tabled by Senator Bierecki, Senator Frost and Senator Romanczuk I have already said this several times, and it has been supported unanimously by all the members of the committee. We will eliminate this element, which means that the airport security service will continue to carry out these tasks. [[It was a motion from all the members of the committee.]] [[Thank you very much.]] Yes, and Senator Klein and Senator Blackobay voted in favour. [[You can ask a friend, he'll tell you everything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u92	I'd like to ask Senator Rulewski's question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u93	I am going back to the subject of procedures, which is consultation, in such a way that I will say that in recent times, and this is almost a year, 26 draft laws were parliamentary and only 3 government ones. I know you're different from the consultations you're talking about, which are fairy tales, from the consultations, for example. with trade unions who rule the rules: first, among others. There are assumptions... I don't want to lecture you because you know it. I don't want to provoke you either. [[No.]] ...but I'll say you're dishonest. That's what I'm telling you again because you're telling the union people there was a consultation, and it wasn't a consultation. Well, unless you prove otherwise to me, then I'll apologize and say I'm dishonest. But the question is that this is the kind of question that... the consultation is aimed at not only expressing an opinion, but taking a common position. My question is this: with regard to opinions which did not come from consultations, i.e. only loose positions, because I observe something like this on the Internet, what is the committee's position And what is the government's position on all the requests that have been received, if they have been received, because I do not know whether they were in consultation with national trade union organisations? A. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Law on Trade Unions demands this, without distinguishing whether it is a parliamentary law, or whether it is a government law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u94	Thank you very much. I'm asking you another question. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u95	Thank you very much. I wonder that a Member in the Seym was working on this bill, and today he didn't even care to come here. He probably just doesn't have time, maybe he's writing another bill. I think so. Why isn't he here? But now the question. Dear Senator, I've heard and heard here in this courtroom... And then it turned out why there were some laws. I've heard about people getting fired, for example. To replace them to fill their posts with their own people. I also heard that And that's how you do it sometimes. You fire people to make savings. I don't know, maybe there's a hole over 500+ etc. Maybe there's a request in all the ministries to make savings and let people go. But I've never heard people get fired to improve the citizen's service. Are you Senator... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I increase security.]] And increase safety, e.g. when it comes to customs. That's completely... Since you are calling for substance, Senator, please answer the question very precisely: how to fire people, e.g. In these services, is it supposed to increase safety or improve service? And I ask you very much, at the same time, to feel sorry for you for the fact that you must once again carry out a bill that will prove to be a bubble that we will have to change and to which there are so many amendments provided by the Legislative Office. Well, it's just a legal thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u96	I'm asking you to answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u97	As for the answer to Senator Rulewski's question... Mr. Senator, the Members' mode has its rules. The government mode is different, the formalized consultation mode is different, and the parliamentary mode is different. It is difficult for Members to consult... There's not even a legal obligation. Nevertheless... I don't want to get ahead of myself, but I think those changes that don't... Well, it's been a long time talking about these changes. So that certainly such meetings, consultation with the relevant trade unions, industry took place by the Ministry of Finance. I think the Minister will be able to talk more about it. [[No, I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but you're the one who has to talk about these consultations and whether or not they were...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u98	I'm sorry. Senator, first of all, you are asking a question, second of all, the committee rapporteur, about the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u99	Mr. Marshal, yes. It's in correction mode... You're right, Mr. Marshal. I'm talking about the committee's report and whether the views of those who were allegedly consulted have been considered... And what's the committee's opinion on this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u100	Mr. Senator, yesterday, the committee's session lasted from 4:00 p.m., and it ended probably before 9:00 p.m. . It lasted many hours and concerned not only this law, but also the previous law, the one that Senator Grzegorz Bierecki was the rapporteur of. There were many representatives of various organizations. And at the very beginning I was talking about it, even reading that there were representatives of the Trade Union, the Customs Union, the former representatives of the Federation of Trade Unions, the former representatives of the Solidarity Union. Many different writings came to me as a senator, but also to the committee. So these different trade union positions operating at airports... Well, I'm here now... [[Good. It's just...]] The list was long, everyone could have spoken. In the first round, Mr Grzegorz Bierecki did not even introduce any restrictions, but in the second round we introduced some time limits. So that anyone who wanted to and who came to the committee meeting could comment on this subject... [[And did the committee reject or accept anything? Sorry, that's the last of it.]] The Commission, Mr Senator, accepts and rejects specific amendments. And we, as three senators, have tabled an amendment that meets the expectations... [[Trade unionists.]] ... trade unionists and airport workers. [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] That was the amendment. If there were other amendments... I know there have been other proposals for amendments, but none of the senators, including the Civic Platform, has taken over any other trade union amendment. So they were not put to the vote because none of the senators took over these proposals. It's hard for us to vote on something that wasn't formally there. We accepted the amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau. [[Thank you. That's what I'm talking about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u101	Question... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but in order to correct your statement... is there such a way or not?]] There isn't, but please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'd like to refer to the last sentence. The statements of people outside of the airport security services showed, in my opinion, a clear premise. There was a request for this... the bill is kind of far in the field. There is a lack of proper consultation here and, I would say, housing. So it would be best if this bill... what do we do? [[Voice in the O.R.: Reject.]] Reject. The Senators of the Civic Platform have made such a request by listening Just like you told us to. In the voices of those who have something to say in the matter under the so-called. consultation. That's what we applied for, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u103	I'm sorry. We're in question mode... [[Mr. Senator...]] No, no. I did not interrupt, although this is a subject that can be discussed later, as part of a free speech. Let's get back to the questions. I ask you to answer Senator Zdrojewska's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u104	I'll go back to what Senator Leszek Czarnobaj said. At the very beginning I said that the Senators of the Civic Platform filed a motion to reject the bill, but this request was not accepted by the committee. I'll address Senator Rulewski again. I didn't want to pick it up because this isn't about bragging, but if you want to... it's all written down. After our amendment had been tabled and after its joint vote, also with the Senators of the Civic Platform, the vote was applauded. We're meeting expectations here... [[Are we talking airport security?]] Yes. ... Against the expectations of the employees. We had the assurance of Minister Banasi on behalf of the government and the assurance of a Member, Wojciech Murdzek, that he would be in favour of this amendment in the Sejm. Why isn't there an MP today? I'm answering the senator's question. Perhaps because of the duties of Members. As it happens, we are sitting at the same time as the Sejm. Perhaps the Member is at a meeting of some committee from which he could not leave, or has a speech. It's hard for me to say. I know he was at the committee meeting yesterday, answering questions, and even, as I said, he made declarations. For the time being, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how you feel that there will be mass layoffs. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, the Minister announced that no redundancies would be available, and if there was any need for an adjustment in employment, we would first part with the workers who acquired pension rights. There is a great deal of such people in the combined apparatus of the tax and treasury administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u105	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! One more remark. Please do not draw far-reaching conclusions as to the fact that the questions prove belief. We ask questions in order to be convinced about a particular case. And vice versa. We want to gain conviction on the basis of your answers. So much for your conviction as to our conviction. I would also like to ask you what you said and what was not at the committee meeting. Namely, together, as three senators, you have requested that the date of entry into force be postponed. I was convinced. I've come to this conclusion from the president's argument. That you put it together so that there would be a longer period to prepare the implementation. And today you said you put it in order to make regulations. You need to be here. 84 Regulations start consulting the persons concerned. So I understand that there are no regulations that are yet to be done and will be consulted. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u107	Mr. Senator, it's hard to have regulations if there's no law yet. Once the bill is passed, it will be regulations. As you said yourself, there will be over 80 regulations here. Some features of these regulations, I suspect, are already in the Ministry of Finance, but consultations will only be open once we know the exact content of the bill. Then it'll be... [[These are assumptions...]] Then, Mr. Senator, the regulations will be drawn up or disclosed. Please note that the Minister could be consulted on a regulation concerning the change in the operation of airport security, and Parliament has completely omitted this element. Once the bill is passed and signed by your President, the implementing rules will be revealed. These implementing rules are very, very much. [[It's a new procedure, but okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u108	Thank you very much. [[Voice in the room: I don't think there are any more questions.]] Mr. Senator Tight. Ask me a question. [[They are, they always are.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u109	This will be a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Mr. Senator, you're always suggesting that the senators who are asking are acting as if they didn't want to support the actions that are designed to seal the tax and customs system. And that's not exactly how it is. We have doubts that Professor Modzelewski mentioned here, who says that the changes will not have the expected effect. And I have a question. Did the Members who dealt with this problem analyze what Professor Modzelewski suggests, first of all, that the management of these three spheres should be harmonised rather than revolutionized in the employment system and in the whole system of customs offices and tax offices? Second question. The senator's asking why we keep saying there's gonna be layoffs. Well, that's what we're saying because that data leaked or it was... In various reports, the Ministry of Finance refers precisely to them, which it gives, among others, to the Ministry of Finance. in response to the interpellations That the National Tax Administration will reduce employment by 10% by 15% in relation to what is now. I have already said that there are not so many people in Customs who have already reached retirement age and could be put on retirement in order to achieve the intended effect. At least half the people who lose their jobs will be officers who could still work. The third question is perhaps rhetorical. I'm the senator. about a small internship and I keep wondering what Members in the Members' Group are doing as the initiator of such a complicated bill, which must amend 157 laws. What do Members do when drafting such a bill, apart from signing the proposal? Are they writing this project? Do they read the laws to be amended? Or do they just get a document that's prepared by government services? And if this is prepared by government services, then why do you use the name of Members here, not those who have prepared the project, i.e. people from the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u110	Mr Senator, I would just like to remind you that we are asking the Senator rapporteur questions about the committee meeting, not the legislative procedure or the law. I would like to ask you to address this question not to the rapporteur of the committee. I'd like to ask you a question, Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u111	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll get back to the matter of the form of discharge. As regards appointment, it shall take place within the framework of an administrative decision. Please dispel my doubts. You said there would be no administrative decision or no other decision, and the contract would expire by law if an officer or employee did not get the right proposal. Tell me... If there is no such decision, there will be no form of appeal against the decision, because anyway it will be a decision. Did the legislator foresee any form of appeal against this administrative decision? In my opinion, however, it will be... If not, don't you think it would be a violation of the Constitution, at least as far as the right to court is concerned? Each of us has the right: an employee or an officer as well. Was this considered, were there any proposals under consideration in this regard, or did you discuss this at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u112	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u113	Senator rapporteur, it has been difficult for you to say anything about the effects of the regulation. I'm just going to add that these effects are probably known, and we can probably expect that this will be a mess, chaos, less revenue to the budget, because that's what it comes down to, if we don't have it worked out... we don't know exactly what the impact of regulation is going to be. Therefore, I have a question about these uniformed officers. You're talking about the fact that about 5,000 people acquire pension rights. We're talking about the 10%. No more layoffs about what it would look like. So I have this question: as far as these matters relating to the acquisition of pension rights are concerned, what retirement age was taken into account: 60 and 65 years old or 67 years old? Because that's probably the fundamental difference and that would probably be explained in these effects of regulation, and since there are no such effects of regulation, it is difficult for us to predict. So maybe you can answer the retirement age. And I'm particularly concerned with uniformed officers, about how they're going to go to those early retirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u114	Please respond, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u115	I'm answering senator Wcislo's questions. Well, you're... [[It's tight.]] It's tight, I'm sorry. Well, you asked me what Members think, how Members work. I'm not an envoy, I'm a senator like you. Maybe it's worth asking the MPs somewhere in the cockroaches. The negative opinion of Professor Modzelewski... Well, that's his opinion, he's entitled to it. You said it was necessary to harmonise management. It is precisely to unify governance that we integrate different institutions. Now there will be one boss who will manage all of this, not only centrally, but also at the level of chambers, i.e. at the level of voivodships. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I know, this reform in the tax administration began in your time. Until a few years ago in Jelenia Góra, from which I am, there were staff at the tax office, but all this was moved I don't remember when it was, maybe a year ago. They were no longer employees of the Tax Office in Jelenia Góra, but became employees of the Tax Chamber in Wrocław. That was integration. Today we go a little further with this integration, because at the level of voivodships we integrate not only tax chambers, but also customs offices, which also functioned at the level of voivodships, and tax control offices. I believe that such a single separate tax collection and control pawn is more effective than a fragmented administration. And if it's real, we'll see. For now, these 10 months of government operation, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, shows that we are trying to increase our revenue to the budget and we are trying to fight the grey zone. That's the answer to Senator Wczyła's question. As for the next question, Senator Flork... It is your opinion that there will be a mess, chaos, less influence. I don't think there's gonna be a mess, there's gonna be no chaos. And I'm sure Prime Minister Morawiecki wouldn't agree to this reform, even though it's a parliamentary project, it has the approval of the government. If he saw a threat that meant a reduction in revenue to the budget. And before that, his predecessor, Minister Shamacha. Because we want to increase revenue to the budget, not reduce it. You know, there are certain expenses, there are certain social programs that the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło is implementing, with the acceptance of society. And when it comes to intercourse... Because the senator's mouth is... [[Retirement age.]] In a moment or a few moments, if you have any more questions for me, you will be answered by the Minister. The 5,000 are the number of employees who have acquired pension rights. I repeat it after Minister Banas. I can't tell you. 'Cause that's not the kind of question on the committee. Is the retirement age taken into account... Well, I suspect the current retirement age, because it's hard to say it's any other retirement age. And if we can reduce this retirement age next year, the number of employees who acquire pension rights will probably increase. If next year we reduce the retirement age to 60 for women and 65 for men, and this is the electoral promise of the Law and Justice we want to achieve. Next year, some 240 000 people will acquire pension rights. Will he use them? Well, today, the acquisition of pension rights isn't a reason to fire an employee. As for the senator's question, I would say that this issue was not discussed in such detail at the committee meeting. But from what I read in the bill, and I went through all those records... Ladies and gentlemen, there is no right to appeal, because here is the question that by law the employment relationship is extinguished. If a superior doesn't offer a job, the contract expires by law. And here there's no way to appeal to the court. Well, unless you challenge this law to the Constitutional Court, then you will have a court. But you know what I'm gonna say... Senator, if your boss has given up the curian idea of eliminating the IPN, don't let him come true... Well, if you eliminate the IPN, they'll all lose their jobs by law. They will lose even if you set up some other institution if it is not guaranteed by this law that they are going through. In this law, which is today, it is guaranteed that, after the entry into force of the law, everyone has a guarantee of work by 30 June. [[But our government rules fast.]] Please? [[Our government rules fast.]] Well, I don't want him running so fast, because some ideas are what I'd say...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u116	Excuse me, let's get back to the agenda. I don't see any more questions to be asked. Thank you very much, senator. [[Thank you.]] [[Applause]] The draft laws have been submitted by Members. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the laws under consideration and present the government's position? I would like to warmly welcome the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Marian Banasi. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u117	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators and gentlemen of the Senators, Ladies and gentlemen! The Act of 21 October 2016 on National Tax Administration, print No 312, establishes the National Tax Administration. The current tax administration, tax control and Customs will be replaced by the National Tax Administration. The National Tax Administration will be subordinate to the Minister responsible for public finances. Under the new rules, the national tax administration authorities will be: Minister of Finance, Head of National Tax Administration, Director of National Tax Information, Director of the tax administration, Head of Customs and Treasury Office and Head of the Tax Office. The Act introduces a new, very important institution: customs and treasury control. Customs and treasury control as so-called. the tough procedure will apply to offences with a high quality weight, e.g. when it comes to organized crime groups. Its objective will be to detect and combat large-scale irregularities in situations where the size, complexity and extent of the impact of the deficiencies present have a significant impact on the State's financial security system. Customs and treasury control will be an important tool in reducing the tax gap. The Act sets up the Customs-Scarb Service, which is a uniformed formation which will be created by officers. The status of an officer is linked to tasks which, due to their specific characteristics, require uniforming and having special powers, such as surgical and cognitive activities. The status of an officer is therefore linked to the performance of police activities. The status of an officer shall not be held by persons who do not perform tasks requiring special powers. These tasks may be performed by civil servants or officials. Aggressive tax avoidance, tax crime, so-called. The grey zone poses serious challenges for our country. The size of the tax and VAT gap poses a serious threat to the security of public finances and reduces the potential of the country's development. Honest taxpayers expect fast and professional service. It is necessary to create a new, efficient and uniform tax system. This is the purpose of the National Tax Administration Act. The Act of 21 October 2016 on the introduction of the National Tax Administration Act, which is in print No 313, contains regulations on the entry into force of the provisions concerning the National Tax Administration. The Act contains a broad package of adaptations, repealing and transitional provisions and final provisions. The date of entry into force of the National Tax Administration Act is the subject of an amendment contained in the committee's report. The extension of the deadline from 1 January to 1 March 2017 will allow for a wide public consultation on the numerous implementing acts necessary for the smooth transformation of the existing 3 separate branches of the tax, customs and tax administration. In one coherent and effective National Tax Administration. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few more comments on the opinions and questions that have been raised here in the Chamber. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say in this very respectful room that the reform we are introducing, the consolidation of the tax and customs services, unfortunately, is almost eight years late. Well, I would like to remind you that in 2007 we had prepared a project on the consolidation of customs and fiscal services. And it was connected, among others. With the fact that, as you know, in 2004, the Western border was removed, we entered the European Union, and then the number of customs officers... Because the dispute is mostly about customs officers. No other services, no tax services, no inspection offices raise such objections here. They don't write as many different letters to senators and MPs as many as they do. I'm saying, just part of it, not all of them. Customs officers. And then, I ask you, to keep the number of these officers at the same level as before, which is almost 15 thousand, they were transferred to the eastern borders. It was so-called. allocation. A very serious, difficult problem that we have been facing in 2005 and 2006 and we have partially mitigated it. It so happened that at that time I had the privilege of being undersecretary and head of the Customs Service. And part of the problem was solved. But to justify the rational existence of officers... To date, they have charged 5 billion 500 million zlotys. And when the Western border was liquidated, this amount decreased by almost PLN 3 billion. So how do we justify the rationality and meaning of such a large number of officers? Well, ladies and gentlemen, the decision was then made. The SLD was still in power at the time. To take out of the IRS the task of special tax supervision and give them excise services. And I, ladies and gentlemen, would like to tell you that today 100 major Polish companies are Orlen, Lotos, etc. Directly transferred to tax and customs offices 96% excise duty. Ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of excise duties are being transferred, and the role of these services is reduced to accounting services, which other employees, i.e. tax authorities or tax offices, can do calmly as well. It's about rationality, and that was, ladies and gentlemen, irrational. Here's another thing. You asked me what the point of this reform was, so I'm going to bring up a few numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2007, from the moment we lost our power... As you know, the PiS lost the election, the government took over the coalition of PSL and PO, and at that time the Vatican gap increased from 20 billion PLN to 80 billion PLN, and executions, enforcement claims These are, ladies and gentlemen, concrete facts and they speak for themselves: we cannot stand by and watch how amazingly the gray area is developing. Ladies and gentlemen, I've traveled all over the country. It's not like we didn't consult, they didn't listen to people's voices downstairs. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been trying to reach most of the IRS and I'll continue to do that. And even though the bill has been passed, as you can see, we're moving the deadline... We do it, among other things. Just to consult some things, take a good look at them and not make any rash decisions. I realized... I've called, ladies and gentlemen, Customs experts from the tax administration and the tax authorities. And you know what? None of them knew what systems other services have, what resources they have, what logistics they have. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone kept their information carefully and their farm to themselves, while the gray area was growing all the time. Why? Because there was no uniform management. The proposals have come to light: we need to create a central management system, harmonise standards and structures. And that involves costs, because every administration had its own staff, logistics, etc. You know perfectly well that a year and a half ago the previous government also tried to go in this direction. The responsibility for logistics and personnel matters has been transferred from the tax offices to the tax chambers. Ladies and gentlemen, it was such a first... But it's definitely not enough, it has to go on. And we moved on. It's all thought out. Right now, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of this cooperation, which has been going on since we took power in the previous year... And in those eight months, we've achieved results. Ladies and gentlemen, Customs, Treasury and UKS are not yet consolidated, and we already have, thanks to their cooperation, more than 7%. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a concrete result in relation to the previous year. And when it comes to consolidation, when we build one data system... Thanks to careful risk analysis, we will not be doing random checks, as we have done in recent years, when the workers have been going, not because of their own fault, to control, because they have been told to. The result was that there were regulations, only the budget and the gold didn't affect it. There were also pathological situations where prizes were paid for these regulations. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what country? Can he afford something like this? We cannot tolerate such matters, ladies and gentlemen. We will pay good wages, good rewards, but for concrete effects when money will influence the budget. And when will the money affect? Then when we have a thorough analysis that will last not for weeks, but, ladies and gentlemen, for days. The IT systems that were, ladies and gentlemen, run over by the various services... The exchange of information between them could not be carried out quickly and efficiently. And now we demand, we want just through one database, a good risk analysis... The point is to act quickly, within a few days, so that we do not allow the development of a grey zone and the criminal activity of organized groups in this country to feel unpunished. And in order to fight them effectively, it was necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to create this strong section of customs offices. And since we take over from the tax audit offices the existing powers, i.e. the issues of the entire tax intelligence, the operational and cognitive activities, and we combine this with the competence of the customs service, which also has certain powers in this matter, this gives us a good, effective instrument to fight these people. Because so far, the officers, ladies and gentlemen, were afraid to go to great checks on organized groups of criminals. So we also have to make a security argument for them. This is to be served, among others. This reform. So we give them arguments, we give them instruments of protection, so they'll feel confident about going into control, and criminals won't be able to extort money. Which are actually our money, our country's money, all of us, because that's what we work for. And we want to reduce the tax gap through such effective measures. This is our first and fundamental goal. But for this to happen, this bill has to enter into force, and this structure we're organizing has to function. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going back to the employment issue. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we do not provide for any layoffs of good, honest workers. But in every organization and in every structure You know this very well, because you've dealt with different cases in your life. There are also times when it is necessary to say goodbye to one or another employee, because there are simply no comments, no suggestions in their case. So it's just that people need to know that there's an instrument like that. As I said yesterday at the committee meeting, and today I will repeat this opinion: if there is, ladies and gentlemen, this is the need, first of all... Because today we have the data actually well obtained, concerning 5 000 employees, and it is the employees in all three departments, because I am not talking about one, but about all 3 services. Because we're creating one structure, so it doesn't matter whether it's the officers' service or the IRS or the UKS. So if necessary, we will reduce, of course, in a responsible manner, so as not to harm anyone, and ultimately we will investigate every case. I have also reserved the right, ladies and gentlemen, to ask me to re-examine such requests if it turned out that someone would not have received a proposal. And we'll consult. I'm gonna call a special team on this, and I promised it to the trade unions. And coming back, ladies and gentlemen, to the issue of trade unions, mostly customs officers... Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that in June of this year huge protests were held in a situation where we had two very serious events concerning our country, events on a global scale: World Youth Days and the NATO Summit. And what have some officers done? Well, ladies and gentlemen, they've gone on leave. Do you know how many of them? As many as four and a half thousand officers went on sick leave. That's why I'm also asking the doctors here: who gave them these exemptions so easily? But then what happened? The fact that even though... well, we had, ladies and gentlemen, 10,000 officers who didn't listen to these calls, they worked hard as responsible people. Plus, ladies and gentlemen, we still had the same level of cheatability as before, and what's more, we had better detection at the borders. This was because I issued an order at the time to increase control for the safety of citizens, ladies and gentlemen. Because this is about our country, our common good. But can such an attitude of officers, please, be seen as positive, since they advance even in the name of even the most legitimate reasons For this type of action, when they know that terrorists can introduce various very dangerous charges into our country, and when can it become a disaster? Well, I guess that also indicates the attitude of some of those union workers who write letters to you every day, to me too. So please draw the right conclusions from this. But, as I said, ladies and gentlemen, we are prepared for these actions, we will not harm anyone, we will analyze the issues carefully. I'll go back to the question about the officers of the old security camera. They're sitting here, in this room, gentlemen, who in the 1970s, the 80's... And they know exactly what these people were doing when a police bat, like a whip, bent our necks and locked us in jail. So it would be a historic injustice if we knew about these people, and yet they would still be working within the new structure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u118	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like you to stay on the stand, because I'm sure there'll be questions for you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to a government representative related to the items on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're the first Senator Rulewski to come forward. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u119	Minister, you've been so convincing and honest in this speech that you've finally found out if you can say so. The true truth is that the author of this project is not a group of Members, but a minister. And that's what makes me happy. [[Success has many fathers.]] Every truth makes me happy. Minister, I have a question: aren't you ashamed that this bill is signed by Members and not by you, and that for 24 bill proposals only 3 are by the government? Does this mean that the government is not working and Members are working, or is it simply fiction? Second question. You've already said that this bill actually... I won't interfere with the government's honesty policy, but there's a record here that changes the rights of the victims. Namely, an appeal procedure is foreseen, but within the same office. Until now, as you know, the tax office's decision could have been appealed to the tax office. In this bill... [[But... okay.]] Okay? Senator Klein is, so to speak, a donor, that's why it's good that he interferes, but there's a record in this bill that means that you can appeal to the same service, the same instance, from the decision of the authority. It's not democratic, there's no double-level, and I don't think there's a constitutional rule... [[But I'm asking you a question.]] The question is: why was the dual-level principle not respected when dealing with complaints and appeals against citizens, including workers who will perhaps be fired, as you claim?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u120	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Blackbay's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u121	Minister, one explanation. Please understand that the questions we ask are not a sign of our disapproval for your efforts to seal VAT, but a concern for whether the law will encounter different reefs. Minister, I would like to ask you about the cost reduction issue, as the rapporteur said. The cost of all these 3 units, 3 services, today distributed in Poland, and next year consolidated, is 1.6% amounts collected and 0.8% in Ireland or Spain. Do we want to achieve such an indicator, and if so, how? Because it is obvious that the smaller the country bears tax collection costs and the more efficient it is, the better. That is why I ask you clearly: how do you plan to achieve this? At the committee meeting and during today's speech, the Minister said that no redundancies were planned. Is it planned to increase salaries in 2017 and is it included in the draft budget? And the third question. I'm sure the Minister is well aware of the problem of VAT fraud. What is the issue of VAT fraud in other countries, neighbouring countries? I'm not talking about the United States, I'm talking about the United Kingdom, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic. What do we look like about the percentage of unabsorbed VAT? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u122	Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u123	I'll go back to Senator Rulewski's question. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator, I am proud to represent the Law and Justice here because it is the Law and Justice that has decided to fix the Republic. If it were the PO, I wouldn't have resigned then, but I would have stayed there and introduced this reform eight years earlier. That's one thing. Ladies and gentlemen, the second case relates to appeals in the customs-treasure vertical. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the appeals are preserved and this is constitutional. We wanted to do everything we could to shorten the period of proceedings, because that's what's bothering entrepreneurs. One of the senators, just as an entrepreneur, was interested. First of all, we try to meet the expectations of entrepreneurs so that decisions are made quickly. After all, we know very well that sometimes proceedings lasted from 1.5 years to 2 years. A small or medium-sized entrepreneur with limited resources... Ladies and gentlemen, if he stops the money because the case isn't clear, he'll be out of town after two years, after a year and a half. We want to bring about such a situation so that these decisions are made quickly and matters are resolved quickly. We also foresee the possibility that he will be able to request a review of the case to the same authority, but not to the same persons. If the person concerned at first instance considered the case and issued the decision, the second time would be excluded from such proceedings. We remain fully objective about decision-making, and at the same time shorten, as I said, the time for decision-making. The point is that the entrepreneur doesn't wait long, he might feel happy and make his business decisions. And the second thing is, it's general in the context of this whole reform. Ladies and gentlemen, we want control to be low. Today we have three servants and each of them is doing their own control. These are scrapping checks, but that's enough to disrupt the functioning of this entrepreneur. The point is to make these controls relatively small, but to make them effective. If we know we're dealing with an honest entrepreneur, and based on risk analysis, with one database... Then we will know that there is no need to go there every year for inspection. We anticipate something like the status of a trusted entrepreneur. The point is that he should focus primarily on doing business, not constantly shivering and thinking about how to survive another control here. As to the senator's question about the costs, I would like to say, ma'am, that at the very first stage in which we reduce the number of directors, their deputies, their wardens, etc., we reduce costs. We don't fire them, but... these three services will merge into one structure and they won't be there, as they are now, after nine directors, only there will be three. If all this counts, it turns out that these aren't small amounts. Besides, we anticipate a smooth, peaceful reduction through this retirement age... The money saved will be used to increase wages because we really want to pay well. This year, as you know, we made a pretty big raise. First of all, we want to change what has been very bad so far, namely that 60% employees in tax offices were earning less than 3 000 gross. At hand it was sometimes 1 thousand 800 PLN or 2 thousand PLN. This is an abnormal situation, ladies and gentlemen. Now some have received a raise at the level of PLN 700.800. We want to reach a minimum of 3,000, and then gradually raise the earnings of the remaining employees in these higher positions so that it is fairly fair and motivating. What good professional will come to work at such a serious institution, responsible for huge money, for almost starving stakes? We're thinking about it. It should also be said that almost eight years there have been no increases in these institutions. Then we need to sort it out. Ladies and gentlemen, the question was how to reduce the tax gap. I've already told you what instruments we're going to use. Common database, proper verification and analysis, typing of controls... And, of course, the whole package, which has already entered into force, namely the fuel package, the transport package. From 1 January on fuel tankers will be fitted with GPS, so we will know where the fuel is spilled. And it's not gonna be like this now that a tanker like this is coming into the country, turning on some left station where they're spilling gas and not paying excise, not paying VAT. That won't be possible. Here's the money. We want to organize a job so that the right number of officers are involved, and those who take accounting positions or work in logistics are not officers. Ladies and gentlemen, because then we have this problem that I'm gonna go back to pensions and pensions because you asked questions like that. The main point was that trade unions, some union officials wanted to retire after 15 years of being an officer. Wouldn't you like to get a pension after 15 years? Can you stand it? Will we be able to act effectively if people retire after 15 years of work? Ladies and gentlemen, I said this: we respect the Constitutional Court's judgment, and the Court's judgment was that... [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]] He specifically pointed out that those who did specific police work would have pensions. At the very beginning, when the union representatives came to the ministry, I said: yes, gentlemen, we agree, we only respect the law and judgment of the Court. But we will not agree that officers who have spent their entire lives working in auxiliary services will go home after 8 hours, like any employee, after 15 years of retirement. That's what the fight was about. That's what the protests were about, and those letters that were coming to you. [[But it wasn't us, it was President Duda...]] Ladies and gentlemen, no. Now there's a bill. The Commission will be set up on the 16th and we will sort things out, but in a fair way. It can't be that we're giving away money and then wondering why this country doesn't work properly. And, ladies and gentlemen, VAT. The tax gap in other countries is 15% . There's 26% of us. So we assume that in a short time we will reach the European Union's ceiling, 15% . Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u124	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question from Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u125	Minister, what is the issue of the consistency of the electronic systems of the tax office and customs office today? Does the tax officer have information about what happens at the customs office where he is interested in information about a particular trader?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I have said that one of the objectives of this reform is to integrate systems. These systems, unfortunately, are still divided into different departments. We just have to turn and share that information with each other. Now it's on the principle that we write, call, and ask, and that should be on the principle of clicking on the system, and I immediately know what's going on. This is where we work on computerisation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u127	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u128	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am very pleased, Minister, that you were talking about the leakage of the border. As far as I'm concerned, the man of the border confirms that there are many fortunes of ordinary thieves who have robbed this country and are now known as great businessmen. We're in agreement here. I hope most of us feel the same way. But I'd like to report the concerns of the staff, Minister, the airport security service. I deliberately did not ask this question to the rapporteur, because this bill raises great doubts and I think that you, as Minister, will try to resolve these doubts. It is a matter of art. 261 of this law, which deprives work, is the professional qualifications of the airport security control operator. So what does it carry? And the fact that one record deprives the educated, qualified and experienced in this niche profession of people 'Cause it's really a niche profession 'cause it's an opportunity to take up a job in its profession. Legal regulations, in particular in the Law of. Air Law will result in dismissal of work This is the respect according to the knowledge of those who told me and suggested that there are so many people working in security control at airports all over Poland. Approximately 2 000 people. There's gonna be so many people out of work. Among them are mothers who raise children, the only hosts of families and those of the first - century age. How does the Ministry, in an analysis, see this problem? Because the problem, Minister, you admit, is not small.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u129	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u130	Mr. Senator, the problem has been solved. [[That's it!]] It's just back... According to the amendment introduced by the senators, these tasks will continue to be carried out by the same employees who have done so far. Yeah, well... [[Then why the doubt?]] [[There isn't. They're solved.]] There's no doubt anymore. It's just... [[You need to stay awake, Mr. Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u131	Mr Senator, we have already discussed this issue, and this amendment has been adopted only as a reminder. Senator Shark. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u132	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Minister, for finally admitting that the appeal body against these administrative decisions I'm gonna stick to this construction. You'll be there. So the officers, the employees, after the administrative decision to terminate their employment, will be able to appeal to you. And since you said that you respected the Constitutional Court's judgments, I would ask: do you not think that it is a violation of the Constitution to deprive employees of their rights of defence before a court? I mean, art. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Two, but it's not about the articles. The point is that every employee has a right to court. It's constitutional. I'd like to ask you one more question. As far as the officers are concerned, from what we have learned, they will be employed in place of fired officers on the basis of a competition. And the management team will in turn... Yeah, who's gonna decide who's gonna hire her? There are no competitions, so who? And you, Minister, will decide for one person on employment as well? What's the formula? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u133	No. We're gonna set up a team. Of course, the head of the National Tax Administration will have the last opinion on this issue. But, as I said, we will be primarily guided by the integrity and competence of the employee and the opinion of his previous work, possibly in the event that we accept people from outside the service. [[Mr. Senator Tight. I'm asking you a question.]] But I would still like to appeal to the court... Ma'am, actually, our legislation here makes it clear that, in the event that the existing state structures are being abolished, of course, there is an end to labour relations. This is lawful and in this case there is no appeal to the court on this matter. So we're just acting on the law here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u134	Mr. Senator Tight. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u135	Minister, I hope, although I'm not sure that... you were talking about those 5,000 customs officers who took sick leave in August. I hope this isn't a parole list. [[What if it isn't?]] Well, maybe. Anyway, you've got good judgment on this case. I think it's better than the people who served as communes in security, and today they're still employees of customs or fiscal services, 20 years after the fall of communism. I think it's a really small number of people. But the question is something else. I've asked them before. Did you, when examining this tax and customs system, consider what Professor Modzelewski said, that the main weakness of our system is the management system? Not the functioning of these services downstairs, but the central management system. And have you considered such a option of consolidating, coordinating the management of all these services? Is there any reserve in this to improve this system? And if you rejected the option of restricting yourself only to coordinating the management of these services, then why?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u136	Mr. Senator, of course we've done a thorough, deep analysis on this, too. And as for the opinion, I would like to say to the senator that we also have different opinions, including from professors who have a completely different opinion. So it is not that there was only one opinion on this issue, and this opinion is the only one we have to follow. We have widely considered opinions and statements, as well as advice, various experts, and we are fully convinced that, as we go in this direction, we will create a central management system in these consolidated structures... that this is the best model that will actually be efficient and effective with effect for the state budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u137	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u138	That's a more specific question. The Act states that the territorial scope and seat of the Director shall be determined by the Minister responsible. And the transitional provisions say that the current offices of tax offices and tax offices will be the offices of newly appointed offices. How is this to be understood? In the case of some cities there is a separation between the present customs office in Biała Podlaski, Gdynia, Toruń, Rzeplin... At the same time, it is said that this will all be integrated. How will this work in practice? Does this mean that the warden or the director of the service will sit away from the workplace steak or even thousands of customs officers?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u139	Mr. Senator, we must also be guided here by the issues of the base and the facilities that are already there. The point is not to waste them. We have precisely inventory of what is already there, in terms of wealth and facilities. In the first phase, so that nothing happens with a loss to the collection of money, we want to do everything in a smooth and very careful way. This is why we rely primarily on the existing tax offices. The IRS collects the most dues in the budget, so Yeah, I think so. This will be the safest way to do so. When it comes to the issue of tax houses, i.e. the tax administration, we have adopted here the model that should be, i.e. the voivodship. We have also given ourselves the opportunity to create long-distance branches. The point is that if there is a need for rational use of the facilities and all potential, we should be able to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u140	Thank you very much. Senator Bierecki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u141	Thank you very much. In fact, the Minister has already answered the first question, because the answer to the question of how the costs of the customs administration will be reduced is in reducing the number of checks, reducing the burden of certain activities for the taxpayer and, at the same time, reducing the cost of operation of the services, which are carried out checks. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Marian Banas: Of course, as I said, this is one of the most important elements of the reform, to reduce the number of controls, but to make them qualitatively better and more efficient.]] Yeah, that's worth pointing out. After all, it is very important for taxpayers to reduce the nuisance of contacts with the tax office. I have a question about the model of functioning of the tax administration. We're building a unified tax administration. Would the Minister like to give examples from other countries where such solutions work? What was the effect of these measures, i.e. the introduction of a single tax administration, for the collection of taxes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u142	Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! I have not yet put forward a few other arguments in favour of this reform. We had reports from the World Bank and representatives of the International Monetary Fund. Both the report and the other report... There were also suggestions from the European Commission to consolidate after analysis. This solution has been successful in other countries such as England, Spain, Hungary and Slovakia. The tax gap has automatically decreased there. These are additional arguments that we haven't talked about here and that exist.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u144	Minister, a new tax administration is being created and therefore the current customs administration and the tax administration, these two main administrations, are being abolished. That's about 70,000 people. How many people will be affected by the reform? That's the first question. Two. I understand that, as a result, employment expires for everyone. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Marian Banas: Yes, sir.]] They're not going from vending machine to new administration. I therefore ask what the employment system is. Will they be rehired or do you anticipate any other form?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u145	Mr. Senator, as of 1 March, everyone automatically moves to a new structure, and according to the law, they are employed for 3 months. And by 31 May, they will be offered to re-employment in the new structure. This proposal will come from directors who will simply be appointed to these positions earlier. [[So they're gonna get it or they're not gonna get it.]] They're gonna get it or they're not gonna get it. I mean, there's a legal possibility. But, as I said, all the previous tasks that have been performed by these services will be carried out. The only thing that's known is that they need workers who... [[Okay, but I'm asking about the bill, about the solutions, not about your good or bad will.]] Yes, sir. [[How many people is that gonna cover?]] At the moment, there are about 65,000 employees and officers working in all three departments. In this first phase, we want to benefit from 5 000 pension entitlements when it comes to reducing employment. This does not mean that people of this age, with a lot of experience, will not get a proposal because we want to use them, for example, to just serve the others' experience before they actually retire. As far as retirement age is concerned, of course we have calculated it according to the current rules, which is for the age of 67.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u146	Senator Chróścikowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u147	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, it is very good that we are introducing these changes, which will result in fewer inspections of different types of enterprises, because farmers are often entrepreneurs too. I am pleased that the government is preparing changes to the inspection, which it also wants to consolidate at the moment, and there will not be so much control. But there was one experience that was done at the Agricultural Property Agency. The record was entered and information was provided, data from the restructuring agency to the real estate agency. This caused all persons who illegally used the land, without a contract, to be charged the costs. You shouldn't have done any controls. The agency has never been able to control it. It was the transmission of information that gave the opportunity to control anyone who was collecting money from the restructuring agency on the site without a contract. The result was that the cheatability really improved, but there was one danger. Those companies that knew because they were mostly companies, entities of different types, some companies. They're gone. The agency is unable to download anything from these companies because they, knowing that, disappeared. And decent farmers, unaware of those who have been growing these properties for years on the basis of inheritance, but sometimes without contracts, are being prosecuted today for not paying for five years or so. And they have to pay back all these debts. I'm afraid. And so I have a question. The mechanism that we are talking about today will result in companies that are at the border of the law or are breaking the law, disappear suddenly and will not be collected from them. Is it possible to protect yourself? I gave an example of real estate agencies and companies that aren't there that are gone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u148	Mr. Senator, let me answer you this way: these things have been on a mass scale in the previous period. As we realized that we have really taken strong action towards the elimination of the grey zone and criminal activity... The effects are already felt, for example through our joint activity with tax authorities, customs and tax services. Let's say how we do good checks on fuel tanks, then on 600 people entering Poland, 200 are entering Poland. But it immediately affected sales in Orlena and Lotus. The excise duty and duty have increased by 20% at a moment's notice. So some will certainly withdraw, because they will see that this activity cannot be carried out in our territory, and those who try will be severely punished. You know very well that so far this type of activity has been treated as a customs-treasure offence, from the scope of the customs-treasure code, not as a criminal activity. But now, following the amendments also introduced by Minister Ziobro, this will be treated as crime. Thus, prevention activities will also take place automatically, and such cases will become less frequent. Our task will be to make checks at the start stage, not post factum, which is, as I said, at the moment... We analyze when there is a registered company, we have access to KRS, we have access to transfers, because the information in this case has GIIF, we also have, ladies and gentlemen, access to invoices, because we make a central invoice register, and within a few hours, and at the latest a few days we know who to go to and what the guest will do. So we have surgical and cognitive powers, because we're observing, we're monitoring it, and we have corpus delicti and then we can take effective action to make sure that such an entity gets in court quickly and that he doesn't want to conduct criminal activity on our territory.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u149	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Blackbay's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u150	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, it's nice to hear your voice, so as part of this good listening... Tell me from the heart: why is this a parliamentary project, not a government project? And the other thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u151	Let me get this straight, sir. We wanted and want this law to actually come into force quickly so that we can take effective action, fight organised crime.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u152	Well, there you go, and now we know. But I'm not done yet. The Minister immediately, as if he had answered me on the flight, but I have another question, Minister, about the bill. Namely is the opinion of the Supreme Court, which in the operative part of this opinion says that the draft of this law It's not about fighting criminals, it's about the bill. He shouldn't be on the agenda. That's one thing. Professor Modzelewski says... But, as you say, the professors are different, so let's say you can reject it. But our legislator also casts doubt, except that it is not the need to seal the system and increase the downloadability, but to limit civil liberties and all kinds of understatements seen in the bill. I'm sure the Minister knows this opinion of the legislator. Would you mind commenting on that, Minister? Are they simply opinions and should not be taken into account? That's one question. And the other. You told the Minister that you have many different opinions from various professors about the introduction of this law. Are they a secret, or could we get those opinions?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u153	I can give you those opinions... [[You'll send it, won't you? Okay, thank you. But still...]] [[Voice from the room: Yet the answer...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Oh, yeah. About... Well, about... well, Senator, first of all, in order to be able to fight effectively, you have to have effective tools. And such powers will have a customs and treasury office in this department, including vertical control. Of course, we assume in advance that this will not affect honest entrepreneurs in any way, but, as I said earlier, we will do the analysis first. And when we know who we're dealing with, then we really just have to get in an effective way with control. And the point is that we should not be restricted by the various provisions, as is the case with the Law on the Freedom of Business. Because when we come, we have to leave, too, then the subject could just eliminate the evidence, and then we would have no reason to punish him. [[Mr. Marshal, if I may...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u154	Please, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u155	Minister, one correction. I agree with the sentiment and the statement, but that's not what I asked. I asked if you could express your opinion on the Supreme Court. That's one thing. And the other. There's a lot of opinions. And then, in the debate, I'm going to quote a few, because not all of them, I only picked two... But our legislator also writes about doubts about civil liberties... Without eliminating what the Minister is talking about... I mean, there are things about civil liberties that can be defined without limiting the elements that the Minister is talking about. Would you mind referring to that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u156	As for the Supreme Court's opinion, ladies and gentlemen, Senator... Well, the courts give different opinions as well as judgments It's fair and unfair. Therefore, opinions can also be fair and unfair or appropriate and inappropriate. So these are just opinions. But as my previous speaker, the rapporteur, said here, if you believe that fundamental rights have indeed been violated in this case, this law can be challenged. As far as the legislator is concerned, these are his doubts, but we are convinced that we are not violating any civil liberties here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u157	Senator Napieralski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will return to Senator Komarnicki Władysław's statement concerning a specialised, qualified airport security service and those people who are in a very serious danger due to the amendment introduced in the Sejm. I know that yesterday, on a committee that I am not a member of, but at the meeting I was present, a very good amendment was introduced by Senator Bierecki Grzegorz, my name-name, the chairman of the committee. It also shows that the Senate is fulfilling its function, because sometimes a very bad law... And I believe that this amendment has been introduced in this way... Such regulations really did not only hurt people, it also caused confusion, and in fact threats at Polish airports. But my question is this. I, despite my young age, have a little parliamentary internship, and I've seen things before. Could you give me a very precise answer? That's the same question the committee president asked yesterday. If we adopt this law and it goes back to the lower chamber, which is the Sejm, will you, as a representative of the government, watch... or are you sure that this provision will not be amended and will certainly be written as it was reported by the chairman of the committee yesterday, and so will it remain?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u159	I will do everything I can to ensure that this amendment is included in the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u160	So the Sejm doesn't reject our amendment. Mr. Senator Klein. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u161	Minister, we are building a new tax administration, a new structure, by combining three different, even four institutions. Could you say in which of the European countries, the countries of the European Union, is a model similar to what we are now aiming for? [[It's already been done.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u162	I already told you it was in England, Spain... [[They're similar, aren't they?]] ...in Israel, Hungary, Slovakia, recently introduced, and with concrete results. [[And these are similar models...]] Yeah, similar models. [[...that there's one administration...]] Consolidation of tax and customs services. [[...tax and customs services.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u163	Senator Dowhan. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u164	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You mentioned to the Minister that there would be a GPS installation on tanks carrying fuel. Could you tell me more about this? Because it's an interesting subject. Who's gonna supervise this? Is there one company that's gonna install it? Will the duty rest on the carriers? Because it's kind of interesting and original, and I've never met him before.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u165	I'm not getting divorced here. There is a package prepared and you will be familiar with the details of this matter at the appropriate time. [[It is in Hungary.]] In Hungary it is, and it works very well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u166	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, two questions, but sort of from different spheres. The first concerns a specific institution, which is being introduced here, namely the National Tax Administration Information Technology Centre. I don't mean the idea itself, because of course it's right, and it's right to unify three IT systems, I understand, which are different now. But why in the introductory provisions, specifically in the article. 2, are you only introducing this centre from 1 January 2018? If I understand this correctly... That's because it's also in the article. 263 point 2 date of implementation of Article. 165 point 3, i.e. the creation of the National Tax Administration Information Technology Centre, is withdrawn, this is 1 January 2018. Well, if the purpose of the bill is, among other things. Like you said, the creation of a single IT system should be created as soon as possible, that is to start creating it. Then why is the start date of its creation, if this is the date, set for 1 January 2018 only? Because what else are the issues of Art. 2 of the Interim Act, which, I would say, the ready-made system gives power, suppose, to the head of the National Tax Administration, and what else are the rules that start its assembly, let's call it, or its calling. Incidentally, if the law enters into force on 1 March, after changes, which are also of course meaningful, please note that the creation and construction of this system will be only 10 months. It's too short, too. One of these dates is inappropriate, because on the same date will be the transfer of the finished system into the gesture of the chief of the KAS and at the same time the creation of this system. He's not here for sure. At least it wasn't separated somehow. The date of the start of the creation of this system. I'm gonna say it again: Art. 165 point 3, according to which the National Tax Administration Information Technology Centre is established, enters into force In accordance with Article 12 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Think about it, because we're gonna lose 10 months. And second question, kind of from another realm. Namely, there are a lot of changes in other provisions, in other laws, starting with the article. 3 and ending with Art. 160. Okay, but there's always the danger that we missed something somewhere, whether it's in the laws or in the regulations. In general, such laws are accompanied by such a provision of rubber that if such and such a concept appears in the existing legislation, then it must be understood... And that's where we give a new idea. Suppose there is a concept of tax office in the existing legislation. The tax administration should now be understood to mean the tax administration, etc. Of course, you have to pick the right one. The question is whether such a provision of rubber should also be here, where possible omissions from other laws or implementing acts... Well, there may be fewer acts here, but there are other laws. So it should just be done in one string. That's the kind of question I'd have.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u168	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u169	Mr Senator, we will normally work on the integration of these systems, while this is a date that determines how formally institutionalizes this issue at a time when everything will be ready. 'Cause right now it is. normal CPD in Radom, there are also certain systems at the ministry level and of course we can do now... I mean, there's an analysis and a diagnosis that we can integrate immediately, and for which it takes some time for them to come into force. So technically, when it comes to naming, it will enter into force on 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u170	Thank you very much. I'm asking you a question... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Marian Banas: Mr. Marshal, if possible... The point is that I have a very important job, I just have to leave and be at the airport. So if you would allow me to be replaced by Minister Jasiński, who works with me, I would be very grateful.]] There's only two more questions, so maybe we can make it if they're short. Mr. Senator Rybicki and Mr. Senator Wczyła.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u171	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I've asked the Senator rapporteur about this, but I haven't received an answer. Well, a good bill should include an assessment of the effects of regulation. This law is also because it is a parliamentary project It does not contain such an assessment, but the government should anticipate and have it identified. Can you say, for example. about the impact of this law on the efficiency of the apparatus in the field of, I do not know, collection of tax or e.g. what impact will it have on the growth or reduction of expenditure on the tax administration? And second question. The Act resigns from competitions for all management positions, but also does not provide for any objective and periodic mechanisms for assessing tax employees. Does the Minister feel that the lack of competitions and the lack of periodic evaluation improves the quality of work, or does he not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u172	Well, we here have all aspects taken into account so that we can manage all of this efficiently, and we have actually come to the conclusion that such solutions as are in the legislation are according to our assessment the most optimal and without any negative consequences for these people. Now it's about the effects of regulation. Of course, we've done some analysis. We certainly do not foresee any additional costs for the implementation of this reform, for a simple reason. Just like I said, we have almost 5 000 employees at retirement age in reserve, we will be able to reduce employment and save money. And when it comes to some logistics facilities in the field, we have a lot of private facilities rented from various institutions, for which we pay quite a lot of money. Then we'll give them up. As consolidation is now underway, there will be no need to continue using these private facilities. So here we're looking at some savings as well. And we want to use these savings primarily for better remuneration of employees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u173	Thank you very much. Minister, since we still have questions, we thank the Minister very much. [[Applause]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Marian Banas: Thank you very much. I just...]] I invite Minister Jasinski. Welcome. Mr. Senator Tight. Ask me a question. [[Voice from the room: tight, no.]] [[Maybe me.]] Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I remembered that I was asking the senator of the rapporteur about the cost of operating in relation to income, which is 1.6%. , and how much are wages, more or less. Is that 90%? , or 98% , or 20% ? I suspect it's above 85%. But if I could hear it from the Minister, I'll make sure I'm doing the math right. It's just one question. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: The director tells me...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u175	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u176	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, 80%.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u177	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u178	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am in the same spirit when it comes to the cost of regulation, because we do not know what it will look like. In that question the senator just asked about the costs of running the customs-treasure administration... Compared to what was said here, they are 1.6% , and in Spain 0.8% ... The example of Spain was given I don't know if it's the best. But I'd like to, Minister. 'Cause it's being recorded, and we need to figure something out. Or maybe in a year or two... what do you think? With regard to the costs of functioning of the tax administration, how they will decrease after the changes you are planning.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u179	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I was wondering if we'd made those calculations. Yeah, I guess so. But it's probably the most important thing for us. I think it will also be for you that the purpose of establishing the National Tax Administration was clearly defined. Namely, it was about increasing influence. We've been watching this this year. You know these estimates. And in this spirit, we will continue to reform. We are talking right now about the organisational reform of those services that are under Minister Banasi and myself. These organizational changes are already working. In the same spirit the National Tax Administration will function after the adoption by the High House of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u181	Mr. Marshal Borowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u182	Minister! Recently, I attended a conference, and by the way, I talked to a science worker at the School of Economics, who deals with taxes. He informed me that this bill was being passed to the Senate and that they had issued an opinion. Not much, he said there were more opinions like that from different sides. I've been trying to find them. As far as the Sejm is concerned, there appeared, as I see on the website, only 3 opinions, namely customs officers, GIODO and the government. I don't see any others. Have you heard anything about those opinions? Do you know where they are?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u183	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'm sure the senator read those opinions. As for the opinion that the senator calls and the person you're calling in, I think we should name her here. This is Professor Dominik Gajewski, a prominent expert in tax law in Poland. I know that opinion, too. All this information that came to us is information maintained in the spirit of certain concerns about the draft law on National Tax Administration, which are reported. If the senator asks in this context whether we know them or whether we have considered them... Well, we've read a lot of different opinions this year in recent months. The most important, however, are the ones that gave the sumptuousness to the work carried out since December last year on the broad reform of the tax services. These are the documents of all the agencies that evaluated the functioning of the Polish administration within 8 years; they have probably been mentioned many times this day. This was assessed by the International Monetary Fund, with numerous assessments by the Supreme Audit Chamber. So the opinion that the senator refers to, above all, this Professor Dominik Gajewski, should first of all be accompanied by the opinions that gave the sumpt to carry out the reform that we propose. And they are the most important ones, because they show the significant shortcomings of the Polish administration in recent years.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u185	And there you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u186	Of course, I know very well that there are different opinions. Some come true after that, and others don't work. It's just that if you've already put yourself through all this trouble... By the way, it's kind of weird anyway, 'cause the project is parliamentary. If he's a member, then why is the government gathering opinions? Well, we know exactly whose project this is, so I'm gonna let it go. But if these opinions have already been gathered, why didn't you send them to the committee to think about them? After all, the point is not always that the opinionr is questioning some actions aimed at better tax collection, but is questioning, for example. a specific intention, a specific formula, that is to say, to merge this administration in this way. Because the merges can be different, but it's about merge in this way. However, it is a matter for parliamentarians to be able to carefully examine it. And that's what the experts think, to look at it and possibly listen to the government's polemics. So, my question is, "Conclude." Here's the thing: let me repeat again, why didn't you give these opinions to the committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u187	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u188	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I consulted on the form in which these opinions were sent to the Ministry of Finance. It turns out that we officially didn't receive them in any way. How? Did I get it? Probably from the Internet. Mr. Senator, you were talking about the government's opinions. But we are now talking about opinions, evaluations of official agendas that went to Poland and analysed the functioning of the administration. And so it happened that these assessments were made to the Ministry of Finance a few years ago. So if we're talking about any negligence, we're talking about the negligence of the previous crew who didn't know why she hid those grades in the drawers, she didn't make any use of them. How long were we supposed to drag this situation out? Here is the report of the International Monetary Fund, obsessed, showing on specific numbers the weakness of the functioning of the Polish tax administration. And this report is put in the drawer and put away for a while for the future. Come on, let's lean on it, Mr. Senator. [[That's the last question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u189	Of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u190	Minister, of course you have to lean on it. Some actions have already been taken. I wasn't in that government or that crew, but I know, because I was interested that some of the actions had already been taken and you continue to do so. But with regard to the report of the International Monetary Fund, which you mentioned, of course, it was crucial that the tax return, above all VAT, but also CIT, is lower to GDP than in other countries. And they pointed out various kinds of shortcomings. But it was not pointed out that it was necessary to delete this, to merge the administration, or to merge it, as you propose, and that is all we are talking about right now, and not that we need to fight some tax evasion or fraud. And those opinions we're talking about here. I'm not talking about the old ones, I'm talking about the current opinions on this method of cooperation and consolidation only, should be known to parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u191	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u192	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Mr. Senator, I cannot answer why these opinions... Because there may be more to the opinion that you're talking about. You, Senator, bring up three opinions, maybe even more. I personally know three of the ones you're talking about, one of them I've been calling... And these are totally authored approaches in a way. You'll also admit, if you've become familiar with, for example. with the opinion of Professor Gajewski And I can talk the most about her because I analyzed her the most accurately. That this is a certain shot of the author. I'm sure you, Senator, Professor, would approach this issue in a similar way, with some elements of this opinion, the senator would probably agree, argue with others. I'm gonna let myself go again... However, I refer this to the work of teams of people who, in an objective way, seem to me, have chosen a professional direction. Probably also in some sense will show how optimal this concept we are proposing is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! However, I would like to return to the question I had just asked to the Minister's predecessor. I'll admit that he didn't quite agree with me, so I'll clarify and show you where the contradictions were unfortunately brought. We have two laws, a law, I would say, a material law and an introductory law. And now, in the introductory law, we have the terms set out in the article. 2 provisions excluded from the material law concerning the National Tax Administration Information Technology Centre. They are to enter into force on 1 January 2018. Everything's still working out. But there's an article in the same introductory law. 165, the transitional, which says, will be created in section 3 of this article, the Information Technology Centre of the National Tax Administration. So this unit, which is supposed to become, well, an element of our legal system from 1 January 2018. It is created, and this article is also implemented on January 1, 2018, i.e. the unit will be created on the basis of... if it should start to be created now, based on... just so, without the law, that is, it will not be caught in the law. I don't know if I'm making myself clear... The Act enters into force on 1 March, an IT unit, which should be created as soon as possible, because it is among others. is one of the tasks of this law: to create a single IT system... This unit will be created without fixing in law, will begin to exist in almost 1 January 2018, and immediately becomes a part of the KAS. But as a curiosity, in these regulations we exclude from the material law... it is not here, for example. the provision of Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (7). I'll read it. Art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1: The organizational units of the KAS are And now point 7 of the Centre, here as a shortcut, because it is previously appointed... What is the conclusion here? It's that the center is a unit before, and it's built later, but... what I think is most disturbing here. "Abstracting from these time issues..." If in fact this center will be created from March, because then the bill enters into force, until January, until January 1st... This is too short a time, because these are fairly complicated IT cases and they usually cause a lot of problems. And yet you're building here is sort of the end of this question. Something called critical applications. The company, which is to introduce a single invoice register at the same time... Question is, does this have anything to do with this center? Presumably so, and if you don't, you're gonna have to get me out of the way. Question: whether and how It's gonna sting with... Are we gonna make it, or are we gonna make it on the basis of these rules?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u195	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u196	Mr. Marshal, will you allow me to discuss this procedural issue with my colleagues? [[Of course, yes, yes.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I answer the question, but I do not know if this answer will be satisfactory, Senator. In material law, we have the wording that you quoted. I would also like to recall them: in the National Tax Administration you are creating... here, I believe, you were quoting exactly the rule of the article. 36, right? [[It's not created, it's created.]] Yes. And the introductory provisions state the date of entry into force of those provisions which you quoted from substantive law, which is 1 January 2018. [[But it's not that...]] No? [[Again. In the introductory provisions of Article. 2 there are some exemptions for the IT centre in general, but this article has not been taken into account. And that's what it's all about, it's inconsistent.]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is [[No, it's about art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (7).]] No, no, Mr. Senator. We are now talking about the introductory provisions and I quote here an article. 263. [[Voice from the room: But in the article. 1...]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1, Mr. Senator... [[Exemptions are provided in Article. Two, I'm sorry. I'm sure it's inconsistent. Although it will be possible to consummate it somehow, but at the border...]] Well, let me answer that, then, if what I'm saying right now isn't satisfying for the senator for the second part of the question, so I'm going to address the concerns you're reporting. Knowing a certain state of affairs in the field of computer science at the Ministry of Finance, I'm going to say that the critical applications you've invoked here, the company... I do not see any risks regarding the functioning in this area of the Ministry of Finance and later the National Tax Administration, because the IT centre you are talking about will have a much wider range of activities, sometimes not absorbing the activities of critical applications. Critical applications are set up, among others. To create certain instruments, analyzers for the Senator's statement of a single control file. We're planning to launch these analyzers in February next year, so before the regulations you're talking about come into force. We're talking about the entry into force of the laws establishing the National Tax Administration, so... If we are talking about the entry into force of the rules on the IT centre, this is even later, namely the deadline It's problematic, as it turns out here. On 1 January 2018, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) All the instruments that your senator has invoked will be operational before that date, I assure you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u197	Does that satisfy your senator? [[Well, it has to be.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: Probably the first part didn't, so maybe...]] Then there's a request to the Ministry to reconsider the senator's suggestion... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: I think today...]] ...and explaining it, maybe out of session. [[Unfortunately, I'm right.]] No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: Thank you.]] I'm opening a joint discussion. Let me remind you, we're looking at two points. Please take the floor of Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! We're making a big change in this bill. The Polish tax administration is being modernised, a modern tax service is being created, which will be more friendly to the taxpayer. There will be less control, but it will be more effective in tax collection. So, actually, we should all support this bill. Despite the numerous questions that the Senators of the Civic Platform have asked here, I am convinced that the project of such a good change will be supported by them. There were many questions about the procedure, how to proceed over this law. Well, what's important is that we reach our destination. After all, it is necessary to increase revenue to the budget as soon as possible, to reform the tax system so that it is more effective and functioning for many years to come. For too many years there have been negligence in this area, too many simple and obvious things had to wait a long time for implementation. Let me remind you that not long ago we introduced a statutory amendment which allowed us to compare, comb through the ZUS database and the tax office database so as to find differences, irregularities in the statements that taxpayers submit to the ZUS and to the tax office. Sometimes the PIT will put the value they should deposit into the ZUS, but they'll forget to deposit it or they'll deposit it not the one that should be paid in. So many obvious things, things that should have been done a long time ago... It's happening now. I think that we should not be blamed by the opposition senators for the fact that we are working quickly, that we are trying to correct these errors and these delays as soon as possible, so that Poland finally has a good, functioning tax administration, the administration that operates in the countries indicated by Minister Banasia in his speech. We use good practices and build good tax administration, which will be equipped with good tools. First of all, this electronics will be very helpful here. The cooperation of services is replaced by the consolidation of services, which will increase efficiency, eliminate gaps that existed between services and make billions or tens of billions of zlotys due to the budget not included in the budget, that the needs that exist in Poland could not be financed for many years, that it was necessary to After all, it has been government policy in recent years. To reach for small money, to freeze the salaries of the budget, and at the same time, I would say, with a glass eye, they looked at how billions of zlotys of tax, mainly VAT, stole criminals. I feel like we've done more in those few months than we've done in eight years of previous governments. The consistent changes in tax rules are already working, as budgetary revenues are increasing. I hope that this trend will be maintained, that the tax system will become less burdensome to taxpayers and that taxpayers will have more time to take care of their business, to earn money from which they will pay a tax to their country honestly. We are all very impressed by Minister Banas' speech. There was commitment, passion. I must say, it was a very comforting speech. It is wonderful that such a man is at the forefront of this change, and that he will be the one who will be the fiscal apparatus, along with other vice-ministers, reforming. Let's trust these people, they have good intentions. Our job is to create a good law. In order to improve the functioning of this new tax administration, I would like to make some more amendments that will improve this law and make issues that are not properly addressed or leave room for interpretation clear. So at the end of my short speech, I also allow myself to make amendments to both laws that we are debating today. The role of the opposition is, of course, to criticise. We understand that, we understand that, but I think that in such an important matter as improving the tax administration, we will work together. I hope that the Senators of the Platform vote for this bill will not run out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u199	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I would like to point out once again the purpose of our questions, including my speech, so that what falls out of this tribune can be understood as much as I can express what I would like to say. I'll start with what Senator Bierecki said. Mr. Senator, we as senators are part of the process of creating good law. If the success in the area that we are talking about today depended only on passion, I would be calm about the fact that the whole project will be well implemented. As a man who tends to be passionate, I highly value people who have such passion, but I would like to say that in the case of management of 70 and 80 thousand people, passion is not enough argument. He is of course important, but we must make a good law, gentlemen of the Senators. And here I address the Senators of Law and Justice in particular And that's what we're having second thoughts about. I personally have no doubt that in Poland we need to reduce the tax gap and pursue those who do not pay taxes, and should do so so so that later they do not run for presidents people who have not paid taxes throughout their life. Therefore, I am enlisting in the chorus of those who say: let's collect taxes and respect for what has been written down here from the Minister's mouth. A trusted taxpayer, a trusted businessman. And this bill applies not only to those 65,000 people who work in these three tax-related bills, but also to practically every one of us, because it's a tax law. And with regard to this tax gap, especially the VAT gap, to clarify what the Minister and Senator Bierecki were talking about, I would like to say two things. Senator, you're a member of the budget committee, a second term already, and for the sake of fairness... I'm sure you remember that I don't remember exactly. How many laws have we adopted regarding the sealing of the system, as mentioned by Marshal Borowski. And the fact that they weren't enough... You're doing this project now, and you're still going to do something to seal this system even more. I just want to remind you that reversed VAT and other tax arrangements have often been the subject of work at meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The Minister said that the NIK reports and perhaps the World Bank were the sumptuous to work on this bill. All right, I agree that if the elements are indicated... It is said that the tax gap in Poland is between 24% a 26%. What I'm saying here is that in other countries, I've just checked it out. Which the Minister mentioned... The Czech Republic and Hungary have this gap of 22,24%, Slovakia 35%, United Kingdom of 10% And the Dutch who have the best download system, less than 10%. What's the conclusion? That the level of collection is not proportionate to whether the system is condensed or not. It's not that simple a relationship. I am in favour of concentrating various services, including services provided by state institutions, because this leads to lower costs, to concentration of capital, etc. Minister, I address a large part of my speech to the Minister; the Minister will have to read it later. As far as costs are concerned, this relationship is 1.8 to 0.6... None of you have been able to answer the question of whether there will be redundancies, whether there will be a reduction in wages to reach 0.8. If the same costs that are today, even with the raises, we find that the level of this gap will be 10%. ...Well, then we'll be below that number. So you don't have to do it at all. a reduction in employment to achieve this ratio of collection costs to the extent of the amount collected. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, there is a question of these 2 laws. My doubts and many of us who have spoken during this debate, but also in the discussion, raise a few elements. Once again, I would like to point out that it is not that you are doing everything you can to collect more taxes to respect taxpayers in order to carry out less control... They will not come into the control of 3 servants at the same time, but 1 service. The costs will not be paid, but taxpayers will be more comfortable because they will not be charged with more checks. Doubts are raised by something else. In March this year, Mr Szalamach presented such a timetable at the meeting in Łódź. From this schedule of actions, ladies and gentlemen, it was the result of It was such a first phase of the consultation. That by June this law is to be passed, that there will be time for calm implementation, discussion. They were supposed to be ready for 84 regulations. It's not like we're gonna pass now, and then we're gonna consult, it's just... The best solution, model, is when, together with the draft law, the draft regulations are consulted. Time has shrunk, today is November, we're far in the field with the bill... and what do we do? We collect a few Members and tell them: listen, folks, put this project together, he's thoughtful, he's good. And the Members submit this proposal. During the discussion there is a fantastic idea and joins this project of the Airport Protection Service... I was joking during the discussion, saying it's a shame the Railroad Guard hasn't been added yet. That is how laws in Poland are not created, laws that are fundamental laws for all citizens. That doesn't just apply to 65,000 workers out of those 3 verticals you're reforming. This applies to all citizens. Creating such a law requires special care, time and discussion. If you intend, as the Minister presented, to reduce the number of people who work in Customs today and this is justified... Yesterday, during the discussion, these workers said: we accept it, only that we learn the timetable for these changes. There were questions today: what's it gonna be like? Well, it's gonna be like over 400 bosses she's gonna call not on the best pageants, but on the basis of who knows... It's like that recent Cabaret sketch at Wyrwigrosz. Why is he becoming Vice Minister? I'm sorry, this doesn't concern the Minister. Because he knows the minister. If that's how all the staff will be selected, then that's 65,000 employees. I'm asking myself all kinds of questions today. They don't work full-time, they just ask themselves what to do, how to make nice to stay in this company. If the intentions were pure, it would be in accordance with the article. 231 Labour Codes would have to be combined and created from the beginning, in accordance with procedures, taking into account peaceful discussions with unions, trade union opinions, etc., etc. And the country is creating the following mechanism: 400 people were chosen by vocation God forbid they're the most competent people in Poland, not people who work in pharmacies before. They will then select further persons according to their criteria, not included in the Act, not discussed with the trade unions. That's what happened last night in the speeches of the people sitting in the courtroom in uniform. I understand their bitterness. They want to know their future. It's not that they have to do this job for the rest of their lives. The world is changing, and they too should understand. And I'm sure they understand. But the system you are introducing is not only far from ideal, but also from such average decency. You have a bill, you push it fast, regardless of the fact that there are various kinds of comments and amendments to the bill. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, the draft of this law has already been examined in the Sejm. There were probably 300 amendments at the subcommittee meeting, and then several dozen more at the committee meeting. We considered 30 amendments yesterday, so there were almost 500 amendments to the bill, which applies to each of the citizens. Well, it's not like I'm gonna say, a pattern of lawmaking, and Senator Bierecki so beautifully said that we as Senate are from making law. And I would also like to say that a few elements... I will not talk about the whole thing anymore, because there are many questionable issues here, but I would like to highlight a few facts. [[Time's up.]] I'll take five more minutes later, but... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Two sentences, and then I'll take five more minutes. Or if you let the marshal... [[Finish it.]] As for the issue of lack of duality, Minister, it is not the question of whether or not to consider... After all, three months or six months or three years can be dealt with in a single instance. And the whole mistake was that in the Polish system, in the two-instant system, it was considered for a long, long time. This is about cutting back on these cases. And yesterday, at a committee meeting, one of the speakers said that the main principle of a democratic state is that when implementing any law, things that are valuable to the state are not eliminated. And eliminating the two-instant is the property of the state. And that's the doubt I'm presenting to you. And now the so-called question. access to the card of the official of the future National Tax Administration. After all, no one in his right mind denies the fact that in order to secure all kinds of evidence, you have to enter quickly and efficiently. But why don't you write it down in the bill? Anyone with ID will be able to come in and say, "I'm sorry, we were wrong, this is not where we wanted to go, this is not the taxpayer." Such rules, which would protect citizens' rights, should be enshrined here. This law should give maximum power to gather evidence, but also protect the citizen from unjustified entry, unjustified occupation. And large companies, Minister, with this problem of accessing the I.D., will be able to handle it, but small companies that don't have such a large legal framework will be in trouble. I do not believe that you are able to control 60,000 people, so that they do not make mistakes in the so-called. access to the I.D. These draft laws do not contain an important section I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. I'm getting close to the end so I don't perform any more. In fact, there is virtually no section devoted to aid to taxpayers. And this is a very important element, an important department, because the state should also help in what you are talking about, i.e. should help a fair taxpayer to account fairly with the tax office, account with the State. And then there's one last thing. If we take those opinions that we had available The Supreme Court says that such a bill should not be put into session; there is also the position of the professor and other persons who have consulted this law, which did not reach us during our deliberations. These opinions do not question the validity of better collection, but criticize the procedure and criticize the most important issues, namely the various inconsistencies and the indefinability of the rules, which will allow different treatment, interpretation of the law. And at the end of the 2 foretold quotations, Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen. The Senate legislature writes: "Every provision of law, and in particular a provision which significantly interferes with the rights and freedoms of citizens... And this project is now interfering with civil rights and freedoms. And so it should be that people who do not pay taxes avoid paying taxes are to be hunted in a ruthless way. The Legislator writes that such a provision should be sufficiently defined (clear and precise). There is no doubt that particular attention should be paid to the clarity and precision of the provisions allowing for operational and exploratory activities. And in the opinion of the Senate legislators, there are many elements that raise doubts about this kind of thing. So it's a law that gives you a huge tool and completely protects not only this honest taxpayer, but also no taxpayer, because it gives power huge opportunities. These are now or are they beginning to be elements of the police state. And one more raisin at the end. The opinion on the legislation implementing the law stresses that the position of tax advisor is also being introduced here. Please note: the Act introduces one position I'm a tax advisor. As one of the wardens said, they are introduced because this is a position requiring enormous social trust. Well, it's as if 60,000 people currently working in the tax administration weren't required by enormous social trust. And what does our legislator say about this? That the Act does not lay down rules for the appointment and placement of such an entity within the structures of the body. So you don't know what it's gonna look like. And when you create something, you have to make it logically. On the issue of creating competence and determining dependency. But that's what you're proposing to this counselor, the juror you're writing about. This supplement... Why should the tax advisor receive this allowance, in accordance with the KAS Act, and not be entitled to a staff member authorised by law to issue a decision? So you're creating a fantastic position. However, the special statutory mandate of the tax advisor, as the legislator writes, raises the following questions: does this provision require the establishment of a tax adviser in each of the offices serving the body; on whose behalf will it issue decisions; how will the division of cases decided by the body and the counsellor be carried out? etc., etc. So you're creating a law that is illegible, messy, law with almost 500 amendments, and a law that, instead of improving the image of tax offices... Well, I'm afraid it won't go the other way. I hope the Minister's temper is enough for those 65,000 people and 20,000 mistakes in this bill. And let's hope that the opinion of many experts who wrote that such a draft law was written once again indicates that it is about such a draft law, not about questioning the collection of taxes. It should not go to the Polish Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u201	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wczyła.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! The Act on the creation of the National Tax Administration is created according to bad practices of lawmaking. It is an example that so-called. Good intentions are not a guarantee of good law, and they certainly are not an excuse to break the proper procedures. These 500 amendments are an indirect proof of this. The law regulating the work of 65 thousand people, including several thousand people releasing, and concerning only in the field of Customs nearly 90 billion PLN of revenue, i.e. about 30% of the Polish budget, is created within the framework of the so-called. A parliamentary bill. It is obvious to everyone that it is not a group of Members who is the creator of a project which, among other things, requires adoption. changes in 157 other laws that the Members did not write the project, but company with their names the product of the Ministry of Finance, to which the Ministry itself is afraid to admit. Why is he afraid to admit it? And above all, because he's afraid to confront the opinions of the different environments that the project is critical of. They want the sovereign... They don't want the sovereign to confront the fact that... They want to confront the trial... They do not want to confront the process of creation, but with the fact done. It is a serious flaw of Polish democracy, which we have been dealing with for a year. The government shifts responsibility for the wrong bill to Members, the government does not want to talk to the sovereign, escapes public confrontation on an important project, consultations that were invented not to be a decoration of democracy, but to avoid errors in the process of lawmaking and consequently its implementation. Initiators are holding back the pressure of time. There's a saying about where the haste is indicated. Democracy, and particularly the democratic process of law-making, certainly has nothing to do with this case. I would like to draw the attention of the Senate to some worrying effects of this reform. I'm going to point out one on the example of Elbląg, my town. The customs office operates here, employing about 300 people. Today, the future of this facility, its subjectivity and the future of the people working here are at stake. And these customs officers work on the external border of the European Union, on the border with Russia. With this Russia with which the Polish government recently broke the agreement on small border traffic, among others. because of an aggressive Russian policy. And this government risks weakening control over this border, perhaps weakening the effectiveness of customs services working at 4 border crossing points with Russia, including 2 sea crossings. He does so at a time when his ministry plans to build a channel by measuring it, which is expected to increase trade with Russia ten times over the next few years. And another minister publicly says that the Russian government will secretly interfere with the implementation of this investment. Is there any logic in that? As a result of an incomprehensible legislative diarrhea, the fate of 15 000 customs officers is placed under great doubt not to say that it is played in the roulette of employment. Officers will be put back in the waiting room for six months, and when they are in the waiting room, without their participation, and it is not known what criteria will be followed. Some will be offered to remain officers, others will be offered another offer, and others will be able to pack their things and look for work elsewhere. Many of them will learn about the sentence a month before it is executed and there will be no appeal here. It is estimated that there will be 10% in this situation. , i.e. about 6 and 7 thousand people. And how much will the amendments introduced by the National Tax Administration Act cost? How much will it cost to mess with this bill? I don't know. Recently, High Senate, we've changed education laws. I heard it wasn't gonna cost anything. In Elbląg it cost 3 million PLN, in Olsztyn A similar amount in small municipalities Approximately PLN 1 million. How much on the Polish scale? One billion zloty? $2 billion? Wouldn't it be the same with this bill? Ladies and gentlemen, these doubts give us the right to be cautious in adopting such laws, particularly those which have been tried to circumvent public consultation. For those and many other reasons that have already been mentioned today, I ask you to reject this law, to consult it and to proceed in a normal way for democracy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u203	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! I do not want to repeat the arguments that have been made here many times, but I always try to find the elements of the community in the Higher House of the Polish Parliament on this speaker. I would like to express my joy and thank the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance for all its members and for the fact that we have managed to cancel at least one element of this law, namely this unfortunate article. 261 regarding airport security staff, since the insertion of this service into the Customs and Treasury Act was something similar to the appointment of a surgeon as head of the Internal Affairs Department. Nothing good would come out of it, which is why it's a good thing that although this element has been improved and 1,800 people working hard to keep us safe. So we can get on the planes safely. He'll keep his job. Good. The fact that this bill of several hundred pages and these introductory provisions, including several hundred pages, were prepared in parliamentary mode, shows a certain degree of carelessness. Although we realize that, as the classic used to say, only death and taxes are certain There is no doubt that taxes should be collected effectively, however, the road chosen in these several hundred paragraphs seems to be a way to go astray. Because if tax collection costs are 0.8% in any country , and with us over 1.6%, that means we need to improve efficiency, but that does not necessarily mean that we need to reduce employment, which we are against, because already at the borders and, to a certain extent, at the tax offices, the handling of certain matters is delayed due to staff shortages. For example, if 8 officials earn taxes in the order of PLN 1 thousand, it will actually cost 0.8% I'm assuming they're making money. But if the same 8 officials earn taxes in the order of PLN 2 000, the cost will be 0.4%. And this is the right way: not slowing down, not hiring new people who will first need to be trained, just maintaining the status quo, maintaining the current service corps, while improving the efficiency of the operation. This is the way to increase the efficiency of tax collection while respecting the rights of the taxpayer. That is why we cannot afford to reduce employment in this responsible service. Ronald Reagan, a classic, said that the best way to increase tax revenue is to reduce taxes, as demonstrated by the example of his great country, but I stress that he meant tax reduction rather than a reduction in employment in Customs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u205	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm happy for you. That's very good. That our statements are recorded because they will be able to be returned to them someday. We have talked many times in this Chamber about laws and we have introduced laws that raised our doubts. I've been to a real estate conference lately. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have heard about the agricultural law, which has also been carried out with us in the Senate, about what the turnover looks like, what loans to farmers look like at the moment. We warned you about that. And it's probably going to have an impact on GDP, because reducing investment is going to do the same. It is therefore important to pay particular attention to such laws. Of course, this law is right, because you have to try to consolidate as much as possible in order to reduce costs. Except you can't just make a bill like that crazy. Because the introduction of it from 1 January, that is, in 2 months' time, or possibly, according to this amendment that you will report, from 1 March... In my opinion, this will not change much, because these 2 months will not save us, especially if we take into account the number of implementing rules and the number of regulations that are necessary. Well, there's no miracles here. The goal is probably good, because it is about increasing revenue to the budget, about reducing, as we said, the cost of service. And rightly so, of course, this is all right and it is necessary to go in this direction. But not like this. And yet, first, we have the Human Resources Act, which is what we do many times. What does that mean? Well, there's a significant number of posts that were mentioned here. Therefore, it will be necessary to appoint new people to these posts without competitions. Before they move in, they're gonna get into the matter of substance... well, it's gonna take a while. I'm sure there's a rule too. Which I have clearly noticed, and I often have contact with various types of employees in relation to these changes That you're mostly hiring your own. First of all, you hire your own, and you can always find yours. Therefore, of course, it is expected that this change will cause chaos, mess, and I think there will also be an amendment this year. Because I don't think that if she passes, although the Sejm still will, he will still be dealing with the bill because of the amendments that are necessary... Because I'm not gonna mention that amount of corrections anymore. This is a parliamentary proposal, not a government proposal and the number of amendments that were tabled in the Sejm, in the subcommittee, in the committee, and also in our committee meeting... Well, can you make a good law out of it? In the case of such a system, important laws, the government should take responsibility, not Members, for creating a good law. And now the question is, what happens to the budget if this reform doesn't work out, it's not gonna work. And there are a lot of promises. The Minister was even talking about raising employees' salaries. Well, you're right, I suppose it would be nice to raise your salary. But somewhere you have to take that money, someone has to take it so you can give it to someone. Seal the system? Okay, we're all sealing this system as much as we can, but miracles never exist. And there will be no miracles here as a result of sealing the system. So it's a misinformed law that could be a good thing that could benefit if it were a government law spread over time; then it would probably be a good one. So it's a misinformed bill. The next question is, is she in line with the constitution? Well, I'm sure the Court won't be able to comment on that. There's still a chance the president might veto the bill. Theoretically, maybe. In theory, we have the president of all Poles. Well, we'll see if the president speaks because there's a responsibility for the budget, too, for what happens next. So, ladies and gentlemen, of course this bill is wrong. As a result, I make a written request for rejection of the law in its entirety, in particular because of the lack of proper consultation, because what took place in this short period of time cannot be called consultation. So I'm filing a motion to reject the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u207	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I was impressed by the speech about our boundaries when it comes to the influences of the State Treasury. And I'm signing off on these cases. Like I said in my questions, I'm an entrepreneur who's always paid taxes, and I've always gotten close to groups of crooks on the border. And I've been watching it for many years. They were stealing from the State Treasury. That's where we're agreed. But as I have already outlined in the question, I believe that you are proposing a law that has been prepared quickly, as so far, by a majority. This law on National Tax Administration also raises great concerns. And once again, I'm a witness, just like all of us senators, trying to move in fast. Anything to say here. It's a legal bullshit. And we are trying, as we have done many times in the last year, to tell you: do not do this, because we will meet again here and we will correct it again, because this legal bullshit will not serve Poland or its citizens. I think so: the main concern is that the system of controls applied to taxpayers by the tax authorities is overly fragmented, which will make it impossible to concentrate the resources of the fiscal apparatus on the prevention of serious pathologies. And what do you propose as a panacea for the problems of a fiscal camera? The reorganisation, the merger, the abolition of offices and the creation of new offices, although the current organizational structure has very little to do with these problems. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken to many experts, and they stress that this new law will increase the submission and submission of the treasury apparatus to the only legitimate governing party, because it will allow a large-scale cleaning on all treasury management positions, as well as among the employees of the Ministry of Finance, customs and tax authorities. Of course, the requirement to hold competitions for executive positions is also abolished. In addition, the new provisions do not provide for any objective and reliable mechanisms for the periodic assessment of the staff of the tax equipment. Ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of people, tax and customs workers, who are terrified of the consequences that this bill will cause, write to our senators offices. So I turn again from this speaker to my friends in PiS: do you not see it, or do you not want to see it? After all, there are a huge number of people in this group who are going to be out of work any minute now, anything to say. Since this law is wrong and unethical, I ask the senators to reject it, to take it seriously, to hold appropriate consultations. Then we will meet and perhaps all vote together, because the welfare of the state rests on each of us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Nihil novi sub salts Nothing new under the sun of PiS. We are witnessing the process of a new law, an extremely important law, which concerns 65 thousand people, customs officials, tax offices, and which is treated in a similar way as several similar laws in the period after the seizure of power by the Law and Justice. First of all, it's about the method of proceding. It is a parliamentary project, which accelerates the procession, but causes the exchange of inter-ministerial consultations, evasive remarks of resorts and discussions between resorts. And yet this is an extremely important part of the work on the project, in this case the project, which concerns tax and customs services, and a large part of the state's finances is based on the work of these services. And here any turbulence, inaccuracy, impreciseness can have unrecognized effects. I'm afraid that this process on the project has shown that such effects can be. This number of amendments, several hundred in the Seym, several dozen in the Senate, and the fact that there are still doubts All of this can have serious effects on the collection of taxes and the collection of duties. And despite the declaration that this bill serves to seal, its introduction will undoubtedly cause organizational mess, because it is always so. But the impreciseness of some regulations can cause serious complications and serious losses. I understand that when it comes to taxes and duties, the services must be integrated at the level of information, information provision, information collection. They need to work together on this. Besides, not only these services, but also other services of the state apparatus, e.g. A law enforcement camera. But the information centre is to be established only from 1 January 2018, i.e. its appointment is to be another, far-reaching stage. So what happens first? What is it? In my opinion, it is about personal changes, not just organizational changes, but, above all, personal changes. All directors, managers must be, and will be, reappointed. And here's the surprising puriazum. They are to be appointed, and those who will be subject to them are to pass through the competition sieves. It's surprising. What does that mean? Does this mean that those who will manage these services need not show their knowledge of these services, their knowledge of the law, their knowledge of the laws? This is a surprising hierarchy of needs in terms of experience, education, etc. This bill, which will probably enter into force on 1 March, because this is the amendment of the ruling party... It is expected from 1 March 3 months of the operation of old workers in these new services and 3 months as a time for verification. So the next three months will decide who's gonna work and who's not gonna work. But if it's true what the Minister said, that they're not actually gonna touch anybody's release, then why the next three months? What's the point of this verification period? Why is it that these employees, officials, are to receive a renewed employment proposal within the next three months after the entry into force of the Act and their early employment expires? This is the manoeuvre already applied in other laws, even in the Act on public electronic media, on radio and public television, in other laws also, including the Act on Civil Officials. This is the solution that was declared incidental to one group, and here you can see that this is introduced as a rule. Similarly, the principle has become to work on very important, most serious laws for the state and society as parliamentary laws. Without consultation, which is envisaged in a different situation, i.e. if there is a draft government party. This really is a serious flaw. And you'll see the consequences of that. That's why I think this bill is a bad, bad act. But there's one more thing I want to draw attention to. It can be so and so, it can be integrated services and it can operate separately, and there are different models in different countries. E.g. There are different services in the United States, they are not integrated, but they work effectively, and there is another model in Europe. But does this integration that we are witnessing right now, the integration of customs and tax services, mean that after this integration, we will also witness the integration of the next, for example, police, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Homeland Security? After all, in such a case the same arguments could be used. Will the Government of Law and Justice go in this direction? That would be a bad direction. I'm glad you pulled out of the railroad security service... No, I'm sorry, airport security. And I was really surprised why the SOK wasn't turned on... [[Voice from the room: SOL.]] Well, if the airport security service, which is SOL, is to be turned on, maybe we'd have to turn on the S.O.K.? How about the Marshal's Watch? It's also service. But I hope we don't go in that direction. The service shouldn't just not compete with each other... But sometimes competition is good. They have to check each other out and control each other. This bill is underdeveloped, this bill is done on the knee and it can bring more harm than good. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u211	Thank you. Please take the floor of Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u212	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As you know, I am neither a supporter nor a sympathizer of this government, and I often criticize it publicly. Polite, but firm. It doesn't bother me that in situations where the government makes the right decisions, I also, I guess, have some courage, because I'm counted as an opposition to say that I like it or not. I really like the way things work. And I'm giving it to the public. On the improvement of tax collection in Poland. Many of these concepts, which are either already implemented or presented, proposed, are gaining my appreciation. This is really necessary. I merely point out that the Minister of Finance, and currently the hyper-, super minister of development, economy and finance, should pay attention to the actions of other ministers, in particular the Minister of Justice, who would also like to have a say in this matter and prepare various projects which, at least in the initial phase, cause serious concern to entrepreneurs, honest entrepreneurs. I'll remind you of ideas like this. the introduction of state boards in private companies where there is a suspicion that the company has been used to commit a crime, etc. Such actions can completely undermine these first actions, as they will prevent entrepreneurs from making decisions, from investing and will therefore affect development. But it's just an introduction, 'cause it's a little bit But not quite. It's different from today's topic. Well, Senator Bierecki, presenting this project, concluded with such words. In fact, we often hear such words. That we are dealing with a good project to fight criminals, fight frauds, etc., etc., and who does not vote in favour of this project, this... Well, there are different words here, for example. Minister Ziobro or Minister Whatever I say is so, both of them, saying that apparently these people are mafias, they're connected to criminals. Senator Bierecki doesn't go that far, but he suspends his voice and says that I think everyone will vote for it, because otherwise. So what I'm trying to say is, you mustn't give in to this kind of blackmail. If the project is bad, the project is rejected because it is bad. Whether they were good intentions, because good intentions were paved with hell. And now about this project... Here's what I'm going to say: these are two laws, 400 pages in total, almost 500 articles. It's not something that we can just get acquainted with or what we know from our experiences and what we can make a decision about. No, it requires a solid work in the Sejm first, and then, as far as the Senate is concerned, also appropriate opinions, so that we can get acquainted with it. It seems that Senator Czarnobaj spoke about the fact that the former finance minister, Mr Shalamach, had announced that this project would be in place by June, and so on. Mr. Senator, he was. He was made and on 3 June was brought in, but by Members. So he was prepared for June at the ministry, of course. Only the ministry thought it was better not to collect all these opinions, not to play with, not to bother with these resorts, with these different Leviathans and other organizations, because they send comments, you will have to read all this. What's all this for? It's them. And to the Members. And Members of 400 pages, 500 articles... this group of Members signed there, as I read, are all professionals from this, really. [[Joy in the Chamber]] They'll bring it in. Well, that's good. Although, of course, it's not good, Minister, because that's not what you do. But what happened next? On June 3rd, this project was brought to the marshal's staff. And when did this first reading take place? You said the Minister. Not you, your predecessor, Minister Banas The government was in a terrible hurry and is still in a hurry. Well, as the project was in the Seym on June 3rd, it could be assumed that two weeks later the first reading will take place. No, ladies and gentlemen, the first reading took place on September 5th. It was in such a hurry with this project. Well, of course, as it took place on September 5th, then the project was accelerated. A subcommittee was set up, which presented the report after a week, meeting probably once or twice. The committee then met, and at one meeting she carefully considered all of this. Ladies and gentlemen, on this kind of project A project that integrates such important services and affects tens of thousands of people, where a whole lot of problems arise, not only personal, but also organisational, IT, etc. This is how you work. I've cornered the Minister here, I'm very sorry, and finally the Minister has admitted it honestly. - Thank you. - Thank you. That the Minister does not know why these opinions were not addressed to the Sejm. Members are not, so to speak, omnipotent and really don't know everything. The senators may know more, but they don't know everything. That is why opinions are extremely important for such projects. Let us be honest: we do not have our own opinion in this matter. We know our intentions. They, I'd say, are going in the right direction. The point is that money doesn't slip out of the system, so that one thing doesn't testify, and the other thing doesn't, so to speak, doesn't get involved, i.e. I don't want one coming out and the other coming in. We know our intentions. The intentions are good. Opinions show all consequences, reflect all concerns. The government's refusing the charges. Some may accept and correct certain things. This kind of work takes as long as it takes. And that's what the bill comes out of. Just like it was done here, I'll be honest... I've dealt with the Ministry of Finance, but that was a long time ago. Those were different times, and then there were tax, customs, ZUS, etc., so I'm not referring to those experiences. I would like to have different opinions on the table today to read them, consider everything and raise my hand. Unfortunately, I don't have them, and notabene is known to have been critical. I don't know if it's right, but they were critical. And I can say so much: if such a serious project presents itself in such a way, it has already been mentioned, many speakers have spoken about it before me, and I just added new facts to it all. It's really hard to raise your hand and vote in favour. I say this to the Minister, I say this to the absent Senator Bierecki. And then don't blackmail me with that and don't say I'm against better tax collection. I will say more because this is not the first such case: unfortunately, this government and this parliamentary majority have been working this way since the very beginning. Every time they're convinced... Anyway, these are all government projects that are, I would say, just thrown in to Members and Senators. And everyone's convinced that since the government has already worked it out and he's in a hurry, we have to take it because the government definitely wants it right. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say This is due to my many years of experience. That I wouldn't trust you so blindly. When voting on a vote of confidence Yes, but in other cases it is important to ensure that procedures are followed. It's different. I'm saying this to my piss buddies. Sooner or later, you're gonna get tangled up and tripped over your own legs. And you won't be harmed by the opposition, which is quite weak today, but you yourselves will be harmed. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, Senator Krzysztof Mróz and Senator Piotr Florek. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted to the National Tax Administration Act and to the National Tax Administration Act and to the National Tax Administration Act, I ask the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on these laws will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 293 and the committee's report in print No 293 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Maybe, Mr. Senator, we'll wait a few seconds for you to leave the room.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo, I was honored to present the views of the joint committees The Commission for Infrastructure and the Commission for Territorial Government and State Administration to the Act amending the Law on the Departments of Government and certain other laws. It is a law that is, as it were, a continuation of the amendments already introduced by the law on departments. The purpose and subject of this law is to give ministers for maritime, fisheries and inland waterway transport the legal instruments necessary for the proper performance of the tasks entrusted. The amendments introduced by this law constitute several groups. The first concerns the designation of the surveillance area of the Minister responsible for maritime affairs. This minister will be overseeing, except for the institutions under this supervision so far... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.]] ...also on the Maritime Search and Rescue Service in Gdynia, Central Maritime Examination Commission and on the Maritime Institute in Gdańsk. The second group of amendments proposed concerns the transfer of competence to the Minister responsible for maritime affairs in matters relating to the management of the State Treasury with regard to state-owned enterprises and companies with State-owned companies operating in these departments. Part of this amendment concerns the amendment of the transport law, which is a consequence of the separation of inland waterway transport as a separate department of government administration. In this part of the amendment, part of the competence for transport safety in respect of inland waterway transport is transferred to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Another part of the amendment concerns amendments to the Education Act. This law introduces definitions of maritime school, inland waterway school and fisheries school. The next group of amendments concerns the delegation of certain competences to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, which I mentioned. This is about exercising the powers of the Treasury... These changes are made in connection with the gradual extinction of the Ministry of Treasury. These changes are made in connection with the gradual extinction of the Ministry of Treasury. As regards the acquisition of companies, it will be companies such as: Chłodnia Szczecińska Sp. z o.o., Gryf Nieruchomości Sp. z o.o., Marina Hotele Service Sp. z o.o. in liquidation, P. P. Polska Żegluga Morska, Polska Żegluga Bałtycka SA, Przedsiębiorstwo Budownictwa Hydrotechnicznego z o.o., Przedsiębiorstwo Produkcyjno-Usługowe z o.o., Stocznia Szczecińska Nowa Sp. z o.o. in bankruptcy, Stocznia Szczecińska Porta Holding SA in bankruptcy, Management Board of Maritime Ports Szczecin and Świnoujście SA, C. Hartwig Gdynia SA, Centrum Techniki Okrężowej SA, Dalmor SA, Research and Development Centre of Maritime Technology S.A., Polish Ship Register S.A., Przedsiębiorstwo Robót Czerpalnych i Podmędowych Sp. z o.o., Siarkopol Gdańsk SA, Stocznia Gdańska S.A. in bankruptcy, Stocznia Gdynia S.A. in bankruptcy, Management Board of the Maritime Port of Gdańsk S.A., Management Board of the Maritime Port of Gdynia S.A., Polish Ship Rescue in Gdynia Sp. z o.o. and International Forwarding Company C. Hartwig Warszawa SA. As far as the transfer of competence of the Minister responsible for inland waterway transport is concerned, it will be ownership rights vis-à-vis Ports Odrzańskie SA in liquidation, Water Construction Company in Warsaw SA and Water Construction Company in Tczew Sp. z o.o. in liquidation. The Minister responsible for fisheries matters will be transferred the powers of the State Treasury in relation to the Zakłady Nieci Rybacki w Korszach SA in liquidation and the Przedsiębiorstwo Produkcji i Obrów Rybów Słodowicze w Krakowie Sp. z o.o. based in Dubiu in liquidation. As regards the amendments made by this Act... Perhaps earlier: as regards the comments of the Legislative Bureau to the draft law, the Legislative Office did not, in principle, submit any comments to the draft law. The only point was that of Article. 23 novels which, in connection with the loss of power of the Energy Efficiency Act, become an empty record. The amendment will be tabled during the discussion and will eliminate this article from the law adopted by the Sejm. As regards the discussion at the committee meeting, it was just about the transfer to the Ministry of Companies. In fact, it was mostly about port companies. Here the representatives of the Ministry explained the applicable legislation of 1996, that is the provisions of the Law on Ports and Seaports. There were some assumptions regarding participation in the ownership supervision of local authorities. But these assumptions, as it turned out, were not fully realized. I mean, on the one hand, the local authorities in Gdynia, in Gdańsk, had a disproportionate share in the supervision of entities. This was, for example, 4 members of the Supervisory Board at 9, with the chairmanship of the Supervisory Board indicating or serving the president of the city under the law. But it was inadequate, because in the provisions of the Ports and Piers Act it was that participation in the supervision of these companies... that it would be somehow linked to the recapitalisation of these entities by local authorities. That's not what happened. In the context of the discussion of the committee's work, I will point out that, as regards the participation of local governments in the capital of companies, the shares did not exceed 2% on average. As I say, the inadequate number of members of the supervisory board, plus the chairman, and the chairing of the supervisory board to the local government body... During the meeting of the committee, representatives of the Ministry, as well as the rapporteur, was a parliamentary project, indicating on the example of Gdansk the incompatibility of interests. The example of Gdansk, Gdansk casus, is given here. Mr Gdansk, President of the Supervisory Board of the port company, calculated the tax five years back on the basis of controversial regulations. Now it turns out that in the administrative courts the port recovers these funds, the excess tax paid unlawfully. In general, the draft law submitted did not raise objections to the members of the committee, 9 members of the joint committees voted in favour of the draft in the form submitted, and 3 senators abstained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u215	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Any of you... Senator Rybicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Senator, rapporteur! I would like to ask, during the committee meeting, did someone raise such a question: why tear down something that works quite well? In the last year, the ports in Gdynia and Gdańsk had the highest number of transhipments in their history. It has been a growing value for many, many years. For some categories there were slight fluctuations in the port of Gdynia, but the sum of transhipments increased from year to year and, as I say, last year there were most transhipments in these two ports in the history of their existence. The same is true of investment expenditure on the development of port infrastructure. We know that the current port management in Gdynia is implementing ideas that were prepared by the previous, well-functioning management. The current authority dismissed the President after 30 years of work of the President, who had excellent results. Why? Was there a debate at the meeting on what these changes are supposed to serve? As regards the change of management of port and maritime companies, I will say that there is a return to the tradition of family management from the Polish People's Republic, i.e. to unite under the management of the Ministry of the whole industry. So far, in terms of competent management at the Ministry of Infrastructure... From the point of view, I would say the effectiveness of the port's operation is important accompanying infrastructure, i.e. the carriage of goods by rail and roads. It worked pretty well. In the name of what reason is there a change being made here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u217	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I answer directly to Senator Rybicki. There was no discussion about this. To be honest, the first part of the question surprised me a little because I do not see a causal link between the number of members on the supervisory boards of the local government and the number of transhipments whether between the composition of the supervisory board and the number of transhipments in the port area. I can't find a connection between these two cases. I think that as far as the concept is concerned, the Minister present in the Chamber will be able to explain to you in a moment what his intentions were and why the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation was involved, not the Ministry of Infrastructure. There was no such discussion at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u219	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you... [[I have a question.]] Oh, and Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you said And I've read it, too, right now. That the Minister responsible for maritime affairs exercises ownership over many companies, including public limited liability companies, I see, is taking over these powers of the Minister of Treasury. I would just like to ask if, as far as the requirements for sitting on supervisory boards are concerned, in the case of all the companies mentioned here, you need to have the powers, i.e. not only the course, how often it is repeated in this Chamber, because the course is not enough, but also the exam given before the State Commission on the powers to sit on the boards of companies of the State Treasury. Are these requirements valid or not valid for these companies?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u221	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. To answer again, Senator, it was not the subject of a committee meeting. But from the knowledge I have... As far as I'm concerned, in the case of all supervisory boards cast, so to speak, on behalf of the Treasury. We're not talking about private companies. We're asking you to take the exam before the committee. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u223	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was introduced by Members. Today we have Minister Jerzy Materna, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u224	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! As for the senator's answer about... [[Mr. Minister, maybe you'd like to come to the podium. You're welcome.]] To answer the senator's question, why is the Ministry taking over these powers... I think we have great challenges ahead of us. I'm in the field of inland navigation, and I can tell you there's a billion-dollar investment ahead of us. And that's what I'm talking about. ports will help us implement them. In this current future budget, we do not have the resources, for example. for executability studies for large investments, feasibility studies for Odra, for the Vistula, for the Silesian Channel. And we invited, among other things. all ports, Szczecin, Świnoujście, Gdansk and Gdynia, so that they can support us, help us carry out this feasibility study. They will also be helpful in the implementation of the so-called. Special purpose companies, so as to reach for large capital in Juncker's plan. It's the so-called. The leverage, several of these largest companies, such as ports, like energy companies, is to enter a special purpose company so that the Juncker plan can reach for funds from the World Bank, from a European bank. They will be very low-interest and will be for a long time. And, among other things, we create a stream of influence to this company. There is water law, it will be changed in a moment, we want an IWT fund to be created, so that at least 30% of this special purpose company is powered. The second stream will be... At every water level, we will build power plants that, when they are created, will be the next source and will feed this special purpose company. There will also be others. bonds issued so that this can be achieved. These are big tasks and we need to combine them industry-wide. And I don't see any bad things here. In short, I answer the senator's questions. Do you still...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u225	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm sure there'll be questions. Senator Sławomir Rybicki wishes to ask such a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u226	Minister, in order to benefit from the experience of port managements, it is not necessary to change the law, to change the supervision of these ports. You can simply ask to participate in the project. But I have a specific question for this law, which also amends the Ports and Seaports Act and thus significantly weakens the position of representatives of local governments in supervisory boards. The relationship between the municipality and the port is not just a relationship between the members of the supervisory board or the management board. Because these links do not always result from the number of shares in the relationship between the municipality and the port, they also result from many other relationships and functions. And the model so far shows that this cooperation has been successful, the ports have developed, the surroundings around the port, which are often municipal property, have developed well. Why the idea of such a change in order to radically restrict the municipality's participation and position in the ports that lie in the municipality's territory or are they adjacent to the municipality's territory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u227	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u228	Thank you for asking. Well, let me get this straight: First of all, this law is a so-called addition of competence and, by the way, arranges certain issues. It can't be like that. The local government of Gdansk participates 2,32%, and in the supervisory board has 3 representatives on 8. Gdynia's the same. It has a share of 0,004% And five representatives at nine. Well, he's fighting. There can be no law under which a minimum number of shares, on average from less than a percentage to 2%... so that they have in one case 3 out of 8, in the other case 5 out of 9, in the third case 4 out of 10... Well, what we're talking about here is just ordering and nothing more. There's nothing to argue about. You may disagree, but we are ordering, we are taking on big commitments, we have big investments ahead of us, and we therefore need to put these issues in order. [[Minister, you're changing something that worked well. So...]] But it'll work even better. [[I'm asking you the reasons why you're doing this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u229	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek. And then Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I will return to my question because the Minister of Treasury has transferred these companies to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Therefore, regarding supervisory boards in all the companies listed here, which are many... Will there be any changes to these supervisory boards? Will the changes be based only on current needs, or will the advice be exchanged? Alternatively, with regard to requirements, will they continue to be the same once they have passed from the Minister of Treasury? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u231	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u232	Here's what I'm gonna say. As far as I know. And I don't deal with these issues every day, because, as I say, it's up to me to be competent for inland waterway transport. This is the normal operation of the supervisory board. If they see a need for change, they make it. As far as requirements are concerned, you have to have the authority, pass the exams and acquire these powers. And you can be a member... possibly join the board of directors.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u233	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Klein, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u234	Mrs Marshal, Minister, you have gone so lightly on the issue of the involvement of local government in the supervisory boards of ports, those of fundamental importance. Unfortunately, it's not like the Minister says it's a matter of ownership of cases... However, the principle that local governments of large cities, where ports are located, have a significant share in the corporate authorities and the representatives of the authorities are chairmen of the supervisory board in these commercial ports... This was due to such a principle negotiated in the 1990s. I've been involved in this, too. When visions and port concepts were considered at all: whether these were to be communal ports, as in many other countries in the West, or state ports. And this decision on the participation of local governments in supervisory boards was such a consensus negotiated with the Union of Cities and Maritime Municipalities and with many other partners. So the question is: in your intention to change this decision in such an important way, have you had discussions with regional and urban authorities to ensure that the participation of cities in port development continues to be important and noticeable? Because the statement that you are organizing property matters actually leads to a reversal of the existing rules of port management. For many, many years they functioned in this arrangement and, as I said, it was a huge consensus. The idea was to include local authorities in the port authorities, not marginalize them. However, local authorities did not have a decisive influence on these matters.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u235	Thank you, Senator. Minister, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u236	I repeat once again that all local governments will continue to be represented in the Supervisory Board. Nobody eliminates anybody, but we need to sort this out. Let me give you an example from last night's visit to Gdynia on the so-called case. The way of Red from the port to... This is an investment costing more than 1.1 billion, and the city approached it so that it did not report it to the PAIiIZ and actually did not join the project. The city would like to have four representatives, and really not be responsible for anything, and it's best not to add anything to that. Well, thanks to the fact that this meeting took place in a good group, things have moved forward and I hope that the marshal, the ports and the city will write a letter of intent that this road will be included in the national roads and that this investment will start. We're really tidying this up. Nobody wants to eliminate anyone, but... [[...we eliminate.]] I don't want to answer politically... [[We don't want to, but we're eliminating.]] ...because there's no point in foaming. We're really tidying this up. Nobody wants to do anything wrong. There are big challenges ahead of us. The port in Gdynia needs big investments, but we will support it in these activities, because Gdansk has developed beautifully, and Gdynia... When I was at that meeting yesterday, I learned a lot, and I think we just need to support one, two, three... There's a lot we can do together, and I hope no one gets... First of all, we are not going to eliminate something that worked well. If we do, we're gonna want it to work even better. Big challenges ahead of us, because there's really a lot to do. Everyone will have a representative on the port supervisory board. We really don't do anything that could cause such fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u237	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jerzy Wczyła, you're welcome. Are you a senator? [[She's pretty tight, but I volunteered.]] Oh, that's Senator Piotr Florek. [[It was Senator Florek, I'm sorry.]] Mr. Senator, that's right. Sorry, Senator Secretary made a mistake. Now Senator Piotr Florek, and then Senator Klein, who wants to ask you a question. Yes? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. We sit next to each other and hence such doubts. I would like to ask, Minister, about vocational education. The counties run secondary and vocational schools and there are many examples of good cooperation with companies, companies, especially as regards those establishments that invest, support, help, while I see that you are going back to Poland a little bit, because you want to have the power to establish and run maritime schools, inland waterway schools, fishing schools. Well, you're in some way in conflict with local governments. It's mostly local governments that deal with these issues, and you're going towards the resort schools. I'd like to know if it's been thought through. Is this really the right direction? Couldn't you take advantage of solutions that already work and work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u239	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u240	Thank you. To be honest, I'm surprised by this question, because it's actually the other way around. It was the local authorities who made such a request that we should finally take up vocational education as a patronage. We approach this with really great respect and it is very well received in local governments. It's because we're going to support schools that these measures go directly to school... Because so far, when the counties had supervision, the counties simply distributed these funds and they sometimes went not fully to a given school. And thanks to the fact that we will have a patronage in various parts of Poland, in various techniques, about various specialties... concerning our three ministries, important in fishing, inland shipping, maritime management... This is very well received in education and I really don't see any threats here, because these funds will go to school. They will not go to the county or the commune to, say, separate these funds. They'll be 100% through our resort to this... I'm sure there's nothing to worry about. Something's gonna go wrong here. It's really well received. Back to a lot of competitions that weren't, that disappeared... I see in my inland waterway... We're gonna open... Last week I was at the Wrocław University of Technology asking for new directions to open, because we lack hydrologists, we lack... Six years ago, this competition actually expired, and we need professionals to design it. It really is all well received and I don't see the danger. I'm surprised at that question. He really doesn't feel that way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u241	Thank you very much, Minister. And Senator Kazimierz Klein. Oh, Senator... Then you'll ask the senator, and then I'll ask you, okay? [[I mean, I don't want to ask, it's just gonna be another question.]] I see. Please. [[If I sneaked in front of somebody, I'm gonna step down...]] No, please. [[Ask?]] Ask me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u242	Minister, of course you are one, so to speak, from the elements of the whole puzzle that is being created at the moment, i.e. that Poland is coming back industrial or resort. Well, it is, isn't it? So that's what I'm talking about. supervision of companies, the topics go to individual ministries of industry. This stage, so to speak, in the history of Poland after 1989, we have been through, as you probably remember. - Maybe not. It is precisely because this resort arrangement from the times of the Polish People's Republic has actually degenerate and compromised itself, and it was necessary to ensure that there was one supervisory authority, the owner, to separate the regulatory functions from the management functions, so that it would simply work normally as it should. So, as I understand it, you are now returning to this system, which was, that Poland will be divided into a resort of maritime economy, which will supervise some companies, e.g. port, etc., and infrastructure resort, where will be the supervision of transport companies, PKS, various other institutions... And you think that this will be a better solution and thus Poland will function better? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Do you want me to answer that question?]] Right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u243	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u244	As you know, Mr. Senator, there is no longer a Ministry of Economy on January 1, next year... The Treasury. [[The Treasury.]] So... [[There's no way out and you have to split it up, give it to someone?]] I think it's actually very good. As I say, the tasks we face today, for example our Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, where EU funds have actually been divided... We only have about PLN 1 billion on one Odrzaska Waterway, and the cost of Odrzańska Waterway is over PLN 30 billion. What do we do now? That's what I'm talking about. the affiliation of companies such as ports to which... After all, we are implementing the EU directive, which says that by 2030 ports should have their own water path, each seaport should have its own water path. This is the case with the EU Directive. We want to do this. So just ports should be allocated to the ministry, which can manage it on a daily basis, well implement its plans, for example to support universities, implement various programs, bigger, smaller... I really think this is a very good idea, and there's nothing wrong with what we want to do. Talking about Ministry Poland... I think it's a little different... But I really think this is a very good solution. And I know there's going to be a division... The Ministry of Treasury ceases to exist. There will be four types, categories of companies. Some will be used to leverage, and they will be needed to start large investments. Others will remain, permanently like this, I would say, 100% companies. Others will be sold Where the State Treasury has a share of 1% or 2%. They're gonna end up... They're just gonna disappear. Partly they are, so to speak, transferred to other ministries, where they are... You could say "professionally." What more can I say here? We keep saying the same thing over and over again. There are big challenges ahead of us, and the budget is what it is. We have to do this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u245	Thank you very much, Minister. Now you ask Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u246	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you about a certain position, something that perhaps also falls under the responsibility of the Minister for Water Management. Gentlemen, you're as if you're connected by a common theme of water and everything that's connected to it. At one time representatives of the Association of Polish Hydrologists and the Association of Water and Melioration Engineers asked me to restore the rank of so-called. hydrological rights. Hydrological powers are, as I say, the determination of the competence of persons who may carry out hydrological documentation for the purposes of water management, the setting of a coastline and the depth of a trough, the construction of inland waterways, etc. Do you think this should be included in the Water Law Act? In my opinion, yes. I believe that your ministry is also interested in bringing these powers back to grace, i.e. identifying the skills of those carrying out appropriate expertise and documentation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u247	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u248	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! I think this bill is a little out of line with what you're asking. [[No. Because you...]] I'm not prepared to give you a specific answer today. As far as water law is concerned, it's about to be an object... It's the Minister of the Environment. The beneficiary of this law can be said to be. It is really difficult for me to answer this question today because we are deviated from the content of the law that is being discussed. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u249	Yes, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u250	I asked that because Senator Florek asked about vocational education, and one thing is somewhat related to the other, only that hydrological documentation specialists are after college. I'm just letting you know it's worth bringing in something like this. If your ministry is also interested, it would be worth supporting such a programme.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u251	Does the Minister have anything to add on this matter? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: No, I don't.]] Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Klein, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u252	I'm sorry to ask... [[There's no need to apologize. Ask me.]] ...but these are matters that are important to me, which I have dealt with and dealt with to a greater or lesser extent. I very much liked the Minister's statement that it is good that IWT routes are also included in maritime affairs, i.e.Szczecin, Świnoujście, Odra, Wisła, Gdynia, Gdańsk. It's clear. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: There is a duty]] Don't you think that the Minister should be included in the affairs of your department as well? It's obvious that the connection between the port and the back... We are talking not only about the inland, inland road, but also about the circular or railway road. These are integral elements of the transport system. It even seems that ports do not necessarily have to be connected to shipyards. B, they don't even have to be linked to shipping companies. The port is, so to speak, part of the road. So shouldn't your ministry's affairs include the other ones, so to speak, strings? [[Thank you, sir.]] To be rational and to be the logic that the Minister was talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u253	Thank you, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u254	Thank you for asking. Let me be clear: our Ministry of Inland Navigation was created to restore navigability on Polish waterways. We're talking fourth grade, so-called. international. She's about to be processed here, literally in November... Everything's ready, the ministers' council has put the AGN agreement on. There will be ratification of the AGN agreement. We will join as one of the last countries. This is a 1996 UN agreement. Our country just doesn't belong... When we enter into this agreement, we will carry out the tasks I have spoken of. The AGN agreement concerns 9 routes of international importance. In Poland there are three: E30, or Odrzańska Droga Wodna, E40, or the road from Gdańsk through Warsaw and Brest to Ukraine, to Dnieper, and Dnieprem to Black Sea, and E70, or Holland, Odra, Wisła and further to Gdansk and Lithuania. These are three ways of international importance. And we're just dealing with these roads. We're here to restore navigability on these three routes. That's why we're only talking about these three routes. So first of all, the Vistula, the Odra... That's our priority. We treat these roads equally. It's not like it used to be, the Vistula, and the others said that Odra... We treat these roads as strategic roads for our... South... We want to strengthen our ports. And that's our assumption: just lead to sailing in the fourth grade, so-called. international.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u255	Thank you very much. You still have a question for Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u256	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, we are amending the Act on the Education System. And in the article. 4 point 7 of the new amendment adds the Minister responsible for Inland Navigation and the Minister responsible for Fisheries, with whom the Minister responsible for Education should consult the regulation on pedagogical supervision. We're talking about an executive act here. This is de. in fact, a delegation to issue this regulation. And so now: in the case of other laws such implementing regulations, the implementing acts, I mean the acts already found, i.e. the ones that were issued under the old regulations They shall be extended for 18 months, as provided for in Article. 39. In the law we are considering, in 3 cases, we give 18 months to issue a new implementing act. But as for the regulation in question, there is no such extension. And here's the question: shouldn't one more paragraph be added on the extension, on the maintenance of the implementing regulation. Only one comment can be made here: that the above-mentioned issue should be consulted with the Minister for Maritime Affairs. And maybe because it's the same person, but in scope it's another regulation... Maybe that's why it got away. As I say, there is no transitional extension or maintenance of the implementing regulation to which the delegation is in Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6th Education Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u257	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u258	Thank you. Mr. Senator, as far as I know, there's no concern here about the fact that there's no such extension. What more can I say? I do not hide that, on this particular bill, that I do not sit, I am simply replacing, because the minister, who is competent in the case of this law, who deals with this law, is at the meeting of the permanent committee and is simply not here. As far as I know, there is no threat to this issue, there is no concern. That's all I can say here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u259	Thank you very much. And Senator Waldemar Slugocki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u260	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. It's one of a legislative nature. Namely, the course of legislative work resulted from the fact that the law is a parliamentary submission, and therefore there was no inter-ministerial consultation. But what I am particularly interested in and worried about is, Minister, that there was no consultation with the Joint Committee of Government and Local Government, and as we know, in this case the local government was expelled from participating in the management of maritime ports. Don't you think that local government units, great Polish cities, should be able to express themselves freely in the process of making this law, since they are limited in their competence in this matter? That's my first question. And the other. Minister, I am very pleased with those words that you have been kind to say about the sailing and the Vistula and the Oder, but I would also like to ask Perhaps that's not a question for you. The logic of certain investments or proceedings by the government in which you are also working. I do not understand this logic, namely the construction of the route, the European transport corridor Via Carpatia and strengthening Klaipeda as a strong port in Lithuania. Is the government aware that it is building competition for Gdynia, Gdańsk, Szczecin and Świnoujście? Is weakening the potential of Polish seaports a vital interest of the Polish state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u261	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u262	As far as the first question is concerned, I believe that in the course of the committee's work, both in the Sejm and now in the Senate, the parties you said were limited to their rights can participate. So I think it was rather unwarranted... We meant... Sometimes it's that parliamentary initiatives have the right to... And since there's a parliamentary initiative, it's just speeding things up. I don't see any bad elements here in the fact that it wasn't consulted. No, I don't see that limit. About what you're doing here... As for the second question, I'm surprised. Does that mean we're not supposed to be sailing on the Vistula, because...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u263	No, we're supposed to do it on the Vistula and Oder, but I don't know why we support Via Carpatia and we're building a strong competitive potential towards the ports of the Polish port in Klaipeda. I don't get it. Why the Polish government strengthens the Lithuanian port and not strengthens the ports... Where's the logic, where's the consistency in what you're proposing? As I said, Minister, I am very pleased with what you have said, which is that the government has strongly placed on the legalisation of Oder and Vistula and on the strengthening of Polish seaports, but of course connected by inland corridors, i.e. the two main strategic Waterways. However, how is this to strengthen this trans-European transport corridor On which we, Poles, and the Government of Law and Justice apply to the European Commission And to strengthen the Klaipeda? Why is it getting stronger? Shouldn't we just broadcast... Well, if this is to be the case in some time horizon, in the far future, maybe we should put intellectual effort, and money, financial resources, and force in international relations and bet on Polish seaports first? Isn't that logical?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u264	Thank you, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u265	That question, to be honest, is slightly different from the subject matter of the bill. But I think it's very good that Via Carpatia will rise. We're talking about the road S19 and that it's gonna pull from Lithuania, from Klaipeda... I really don't see... It's very good that there's such an initiative. We have on the west side of S3 and we are happy that from the Baltic Sea we will be able to reach the Adriatic. I believe that Via Carpatia can also play such a role and strengthen all intermediate countries throughout the route. And I don't see any... competition is sometimes even good. And I don't see any danger here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u266	You're still Senator Slugocki. [[Oh, come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u267	That's the last... And, of course, I'm going to give up on this, as my colleagues have suggested. However, I think that if we want to build strong Poland in the European Union in the 21st century, if we want to have good relations in trade, if we want to use inland corridors and build the potential of Polish seaports, we should first focus on our potentials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u268	It was time to ask questions. Thank you very much. There are no more questions. [[I have a question.]] Mr. Senator, only if it's a question, not a free speech... There will be time for discussion in a moment and you will be able to give your opinions. I'd like to ask you a short and compact question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question, a short question. I'm asking you to answer in writing, possibly... I'd like to see a show... Well, you knocked me out of my rhythm, but I'm getting back in shape. I have a request to present an investment programme for small ports. It's in writing... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Good.]] And then... Under the supervision of the Minister of Maritime Affairs, companies related to the maritime economy have entered. There are also companies in this list that are not related to maritime or inland affairs. What does that tell you? Was that a thoughtful selection key?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u270	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u271	It's hard for me to answer that question. As far as I know, they're all linked to the maritime economy. Maybe there's a company out there that maybe not directly, but indirectly... It's hard for me to answer that question. [[Good. Thank you very much.]] There's over 60 of them, and I don't know them all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u272	That's the end of the line. Yes, Minister? Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Thank you.]] There are no more questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to answer in writing the questions asked by Senator Kazimierz Kleina. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Andrzej Stanisławek to speak. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u273	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I would like to propose amendments to the Law on the amendment of the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. Amendments to Article 20 refer to a change in the number of members of the Scientific Council. There is a proposal to reduce their number from 11 to 10. The point is, two representatives had the Ministry of Development. In this way, the balance would return and each minister would have one representative. A representative of the Minister for Regional Development will be able to participate in the work of the Council with an advisory voice. In the next point we clarify, adding words for regional development... There is also an amendment to the article. 23. I mean, it's about deleting the entire article as unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u274	Thank you, Senator. And there you go, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We have a similar situation here as at the previous point. The bill is prepared by the government and the draft is submitted by Members. There is no inter-ministerial consultation to make it quicker and more efficient, as the Minister said. But that doesn't mean it's better. This law is quite complicated, I would even say very complicated, because it changes various parts of the functioning of the maritime economy, ports, etc. She's pretty complicated. I'm just gonna lean on port relations. It's self-government. Of course, it is important to create water roads, especially the north. Noon, not east west. The ports function in a certain environment of local government, because they lie in cities. And cities are infrastructure. Without this infrastructure... Without coordination of infrastructure with ports and ports with cities on this infrastructure, these ports will have problems. The idea of a law, this law that we passed, seems, 15 years ago, was that the interests of the state, which should affect ports, combine with the interests of the local government, which should also have an impact on ports. I understand the upset of Senator Kazimierz Kleina, who worked on this bill and thought that ports, these large ports, should not be fully and fully comunizable, and now he hears that there is a law that pushes local governments out of these three large ports at all. Yes, it pushes, because a representative of the local government in the supervisory boards of these ports, these 3 large ones, Gdynia, Gdańsk, Szczecin-Świnoujście, was supposed to be and was a representative of the local government. Self-government had to have at least... Otherwise: The Treasury was secured by the fact that it had always, and had to have, about 1 representative more than self-government. Therefore, he could always vote for the local government. But at the same time the local government had a significant influence. Saying that this is a return to the right proportion... What, in a situation where the government had 2% participation in the company, and had 3 or 2 representatives, restoring the proper proportion, as I understand it, would be that if the local government had 1% Does it have a half-legged or half-footed representative on the board? This is, of course, going the wrong way, it will create problems in relations between local government and the Treasury in and around ports. It's been working great so far, so I'm surprised we're changing that. And that's a general matter. But there is also something that I would call lex Horała from the name of a Member of Gdynia who was a councilman in Gdynia and who was running this law in the Sejm, was the draftsman of the bill. What is it? The point is that a minor change has been made on this occasion, which means that the members of the supervisory boards of subsidiaries in these 3 large ports do not need to have legal powers, i.e. they do not need to be on the course and pass the examination for members of supervisory boards. This is a situation that is curiosity. On 22 June, the President of the Management Board of the Port of Gdansk submitted several new members to the supervisory boards of companies subordinate to the Maritime Management Board of the Port of Gdansk. They were: Paweł Żytkiewicz, 27 years old, head of PiS youth in Gdynia; Michał Bełbot, councilman of PiS from Gdynia, 31 years old, assistant of Marcin Horała; Marek Dudziński, 24-year-old district councilman from Gdynia, student of economics, political studies; Roman Dambek, secretary of the district board of PiS in Gdynia, assistant of Anna Fotygi; Jacek Milewski, lawyer, son of the councilman of PiS from Gdańsk, a very significant and influential councilman from Gdańsk. 8 days later, these new representatives had to be cancelled as a result of the intervention of the Minister, as it turned out that they had to have completed courses and passed exams for members of supervisory boards. And now this law doesn't make them have to have such powers, because it separates or separates the self-government law that provided for such situations, from the Ports Act. So the gentlemen I've mentioned are about to be called and boarded without courses or competitions. It's clear. On this occasion, the operation was very cloaked... Because as far as the local government operation is concerned, there is a clear question of the chairman of the supervisory board, to be a representative of the State Treasury. Reduce the number of representatives of local governments in the supervisory boards of 3 large ports... This personal matter has been very camouflaged and I'm just surprised that, while working on such a bill, this type of act is being carried out, let's call it, tiny actions... Thank you. [[They used to be bigger.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u276	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u277	We support the amendment, and as regards the polemics of Marshal Borusewicz, I would not like to argue further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u278	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Dear Senators, I would like to read the message. In accordance with the decision of the Senate Marshal, tomorrow's meeting day, i.e. On 4 November, the Senate will begin by considering point seven: the Act on ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, drawn up at Astana on 21 December 2015. Immediately after considering this point, a vote will be taken on the matter. Next, points 8 to 13 on the occasional draft resolutions on the establishment of the year 2017 of the person or event will be considered. The votes on these resolutions will be held after consideration. The other items on the agenda will be voted at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System. The text of the Act is contained in print No 295 and the committee's report in print No 295 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u279	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The bill gained full support both in the Sejm and in our committee. The Act regulates and at the same time aligns in the powers of the Social Security Office and its clients, removes the state of uncertainty occurring especially on the part of insured persons, who so far, due to the wording of the article. 84, they couldn't be sure of how they could be counted... It is a decision to recover an undue benefit. The Act clarifies that it may not be issued after 5 years from the last day of the period for which an undue benefit has been claimed. All members of the committee voted in favour of this submission.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u280	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Stanisław Szwed, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Would the Minister like to speak on this bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Mrs Marshal, thank you very much for supporting the Senate. Yes, thank you...]] Thank you... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed:...the subject is obvious.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ah, the Minister stays until the next bill. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions Act and the Act on Pre-retirement Benefits. The text of the Act is contained in print No 296 and the report of the Commission In print No 296 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u281	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the report of the committee of 18 October this year on the work on the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and the Act on Pre-retirement Benefits, print No 296. The amendment of the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and the Act on Pre-retirement Benefits introduces provisions allowing for the inclusion of a period for the collection of care benefits, a special welfare allowance or a disability care allowance for periods of entitlement to unemployment benefit and a pre-retirement benefit. The condition for the payment of these periods is the loss of the right to provide care or welfare benefits caused by the death of the person who has been taken care of. The reason for this is that the period of care for disabled persons should be treated in the same way as the period of employment, as regards the possibility to pass that period up to 365 days entitlement to the right to unemployment benefit as well as the period of entitlement to the right to pre-retirement benefit. The purpose of receiving care benefits, special care allowance or care allowance is to partially compensate for the termination of work due to the need for permanent care of a disabled family member, and it is therefore appropriate for the legislator to treat this form of activity in the same way as employment, as regards the possibility of obtaining the right to unemployment benefit and the early retirement benefit after the loss of the right to specified care benefits. During the process of the government project, both in the Sejm and in the Senate committee, there was a consensus on the validity of the proposed regulations. It is proposed that the Act in question should enter into force on 1 January 2017. Expenditure on the financing of benefits to the proposed eligible group will be borne by the Labour Fund under the amounts set out annually in the Labour Fund's financial plan for the financing of unemployment benefits, which are paid by the county and municipal labour offices, as well as the pre-retirement benefits and benefits paid by the Social Insurance Institution. Between 2017 and 2026 the estimated amount of expenditure of the Labour Fund resulting from the financial effect of the Act will amount to PLN 921 million 200 thousand. Mrs Marshal, the High Senate, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy requests that the draft law be adopted without amendment, as set out in the draft submitted to the Senate. In this regard, the vote was unanimous in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u282	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Stanisław Szwed like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present a position? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Mrs Marshal, thank you. The subject is known. This is very necessary, so that I thank the High Senate very much for supporting the bill.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Yes.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome. Minister, I'm inviting you here because it's... I'd like you to come over here to the speaker, because there's a question for the Minister. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask this question so that there will be no difficulties in interpreting the application of the rule. We add one more item to the directory of periods that can be included up to 365 days a year, which is required to get, among others. unemployment benefit. Please say: must it be 365 days of care, or can it be a smaller number of days, which, with other numbers, with the days resulting from other grounds, will add up to 365 days? Have I made myself clear in my question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u284	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u285	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, if I understand correctly, we're talking about the situation of overworking a year of work, which is 365 days to get the authority. So this is similar to the right to unemployment benefits. The same will apply in this case. If someone takes care of a disabled person for a year, they will be entitled to unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u286	I'll make it clear, Minister, after all. Suppose someone worked for six months and then took care of a disabled person for six months. Can these days be counted together? So it's 365 days in total: working days plus six months' care. I don't know if it's clear...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u287	Yeah, it's gonna be... Here's what I'm gonna say: it's gonna be connected, it's gonna be together... So it's going to be counted as a period of employment. That's custody plus... Here's what's gonna happen. But maybe the principal would have confirmed that the same here... Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u288	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Rulewski signed up for the discussion. You're welcome. Then Senator Antoni Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are proceeding on the Act of 6 October 2016 amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions. It happened so well that we dealt with this topic together, although in other places. I mean the Swedish Minister in the Sejm, as I remember from my relationship, and I in the Senate. Although the law is, as it is written here, government, it is, in fact, of a nature, I would say, parliamentary, or even more, because it is citizens', and this is because the third institution, or non-governmental organization, has been working on it. Now I don't remember her name... It was a non-governmental organisation dealing with the issue of people with disabilities. She was actively involved in the work by petitioning. The petition just started work on this bill. I was given the opportunity to address this issue in 2013. And the Senate has already come, so to speak, under the collar of these cases, as it presented a draft solution. Unfortunately, due to the end of the term of office, such an important matter has not been finalised. So it's a good thing after three years, but we're back to the subject. This time, however, the initiator of these changes is the government, which is a rare thing in our parliament lately. As I noticed, both in the Seym and here, in the Senate, during the work of the committee, there was no controversy. I'm supposed to be known as a controversy seeker. But this time I'm just trying to point out that that wasn't what drove me, maybe it wasn't even very rare when he was in charge, even though I'm proposing to correct this bill. Namely, as you know, the bill covers a case... actually only two cases, which make carers able to become candidates to queue to the employment office. The first case is the death of a person they care about. And the second case, of course, is that this person loses a degree of disability on the basis of the decision or, if he is an adult or over 16 years old, loses a significant degree of disability. Thus, it is a law that almost precisely defines when these persons, after fulfilling conditions such as those of the other unemployed who have already been referred to here, for example this condition that they work for at least 12 months within 18 months, have the possibility to obtain unemployment status together with different categories of benefits. However, the situation of the others is the subject of my amendment. What are the others? I could mention a dozen cases, but I'm not gonna be the High House, which is known for its competence, doing the job. However, I must mention at least 3 to justify my amendment. Which of the carers or carers of disabled persons can at least count in terms of fulfilling their legitimate expectations Is equal, although not combined with 3 marks equal to State aid? Well, there could be a situation. And that's what happens. That a disabled person simply because of age or other circumstances becomes a ward of a welfare home. In this situation, of course, the assistance of a physical guardian, a member of the family, is unnecessary. It can happen in this situation that after how many years there, after unnatural burn-out at the age of more than 50, the caretaker will not be able to enter into a professional activity or will be objective obstacles to the labour market. Second situation. It may happen that the caretaker himself will, so to speak, have a health disability that is not necessarily related to the performance of this function, and that he will not be able to take up a business activity, and even more so to find jobs. And it is necessary for such a person to become a ward of the employment office. The third case concerns the existence of a conflict between the caretaker and the carers themselves. Consider that this is a dysfunctional situation. We are dealing with people whose dysfunction is a major loss of health, not necessarily a physical one. And finally, apparently, the case I indicated. I think the Swedish Minister will share my opinion here. The caretaker's institution is good. It is good that the State rewards such a person with a special allowance. His Majesty is low, but allows him to exist at least to a sufficient degree in the dramatic situation in a given family, at the time when the health of a loved one Only such persons are affected by this benefit and require almost 24-hour care. Such a witness has a different value. Allows you to benefit from social security benefits. As I say, almost all of us agree here, such a person at some point is left to himself in confrontation with the labour market, in position, let's say, almost lost. After 20 and 30 years of caring for someone, she gained nothing, even lost all professional opportunities and knocked on the door of the employment office. It knocks, but the current legislation does not allow it to register because of the working conditions The care has not yet been treated as a job. Such a person should first find a job somewhere, work under any pretense to gain, I would say, such a status of 365 days, and then take advantage of the opportunities offered by the legislation to citizens. And that's why there's this bill. However, as I say, not in all cases, also exceptional, let's be honest, in cases of death... I propose that these other cases should also be covered by the Act. High Izbo, I must say this in an almost dramatic tone. I know that since 2013... even the government of the Platform has opposed this position, although it has succumbed to some kind of softening and there have been announcements that it will be taken into account. It was agreed that these persons should be covered by the law, but this was not recognised in the position of the government. Then there was the end of Parliament's work. What I'm really talking about is this. I'm going back to thread four. In order for the person concerned to take care of the family and that in the family, if it counts more than two people, i.e. the caretaker and carer, there is a possibility of rotation of those who take care of the sick. It is difficult by virtue of the law to dictate that a person affected by a significant disability should only deal with one person, from the beginning to the end. In fact, it is also a kind of disability, an inequality in the context of some specific and specialized care. And it would be good if there was a change in this family if there was mutual support. Of course, the government, especially the finance minister... And I would like to thank the Swedish Minister for his extensive correspondence with the current finance minister proving that the government's reservations are too far-reaching, even incomprehensible. The government proves that there's no money for this, that it's going to increase... and that, by the way, it would have to change the case law. I would say that the finance ministers are a specific sort of thing. I'm not gonna tell you what it is. Ladies and gentlemen, what social phenomenon are we dealing with? Here's a random situation in the family. Disability cases counted in Poland at 300 thousand... Well, 200,000 people with this help... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]] [[Mr. Senator, time.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. These are the situations where we find real Samaritans. That's what you have to call them. In these families. They either give up their job or do not take it at all, and for this 520 PLN, which is for as much as they need to survive, if it is possible to take care of it at all. And when this care expires, for reasons beyond their control, on the labour market do not have the rights of ordinary workers, often consciously abusing this formula. That's the last sentence. What are you risking, in fact, what do you gain from it? After all, the rule of insurance has been incorporated into the constitution... The State does not need to build social housing, the State is free from the need to provide other forms of assistance. What's he risking? That for six months he will pay unemployment benefits of up to PLN 863 gross Gross, i.e. some of it comes back to the state In general, it will pay 660 PLN, because after six months the first one is finished. This is even less than that person had at the time of care... risks, but it is not said that this person will never undertake any other activity, even if... That's really the last sentence. She could then, after training and thanks to the help of institutions in the labour market, take professional care of others, not necessarily from her family. Minister, hence the request for consistency, I would say, in your sensitivity and acceptance of this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u290	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Szymanski. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My speech will be brief because the amendment to the bill is uncontroversial. She didn't cause any controversy at the committee meeting. The whole committee voted for what you presented Senator Andrzej Kaminski in his speech as a representative of the family committee. I'd like to show you a series of events that are taking place in this case. A few months ago, we adopted a solution whereby care can be provided to both parents if there is more than one disabled child in the family. This case hasn't been handled like this for many years. The Court's ruling required this, but there was no legal solution. It was only a few months ago that this solution was accepted. Today, we accept the positive vote tomorrow, that is to say, in favour of this solution. Another solution for those who have benefited from the care provision. The point is that they can benefit from a pre-retirement allowance, if necessary, or from other opportunities provided by the Employment Promotion Act. I would also like to point out in my statement that tomorrow we will be working on a law, a new law, submitted yesterday to the Sejm. It is a life-related law designed to ensure that the conditions for families, for women who are in trouble who are having a child with disabilities, are as good as possible. Today's solution precedes the resolution of this law for life, but it is a compatible solution, it is a solution that goes in the same direction, namely that parents who have children with disabilities can look after them as best as possible. I would like to point out that this law precedes the law We have adopted many solutions during this term of office. From 500+ to this bill we are discussing "Supporting a solution to the problem of women in, as we say, a difficult pregnancy or a crisis pregnancy. These are extremely important solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u292	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators, Senator Łuczak and Senator Mikołajczyk made their speeches in the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Rulewski has submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing. The discussion is closed. Please read the messages. [[The Minister didn't answer.]] Oh, excuse me. Would the Minister like to comment on the proposals put forward? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will refer briefly to Senator Jan Rulewski's speech. I share your empathy regarding people with disabilities, their carers, because we have been dealing with this issue for many years, but we cannot accept this amendment at the moment. The reason is simple: we need to build a new care system, support for people with disabilities, because today there are actually 4 systems. Disabled children's carers... There is a solution for the amount of care provided From 1 January it amounts to PLN 1 thousand 400 without income criterion. We have a special welfare allowance for adults in the amount of PLN 520 - here, as we can see, we have a large difference and a profit criterion of PLN 623. We have a group that, after the Constitutional Court's ruling... After previous non-constitutional solutions introduced by the previous government, I presented this request. The Court has made it clear that caretakers of disabled persons cannot be shared because of the age of disability, so a law on welfare benefits has been drawn up, i.e. another category has emerged. And there is another category, i.e. those who have acquired the right to a pension due to the disability of the child. In our country there are 4 different groups dealing with the same issue, i.e. people with disabilities. Whether it's children or grown-ups. And that absolutely needs to be settled. An interministerial team has been set up to work on solutions. What we are discussing today, a small amendment, concerns the most tragic situation, one when the person who has been cared for dies. We give carers the right to receive care or the right to unemployment benefits. There was a proposal that I made on behalf of our department to include those who have lost their degree of disability. This solution was not found in this project for a simple reason: we are, so to speak, forced either to correct or to build a new system of case law. Because today we have seven systems of case law, which means this system is completely... As far as costs are concerned, if we put in place this solution within 10 years, because that is the perspective if we took these solutions 100% Everyone at one point, which is, of course, impossible. The costs would be at the level of PLN 20 billion. Since we took lower costs, at the level of PLN 1 billion, we did not decide to take this step. Until we do a new law on case law, we will not put this system in order, it would be difficult to put in place such solutions, but I agree that this should be done. And I hope that we can do this under the rule of law and justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u294	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal, in corrigendum mode...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u295	Minister, I admire your great knowledge, but in this case you missed my position and, I think, with the general position about... We are not talking about spending on people who take care of the disabled, they are their guardians. We are talking about a situation where these people are no longer carers, because either the deceased person who is being cared for has died, or there have been, as I have pointed out, other circumstances. And then there will be no such cost, because, as I say, under conditions of a good market... thanks to the construction of a good labour market, Minister. And I believe that you're thinking about it, maybe even dreaming about it. They will not report to the employment offices at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u296	Okay, here we go. This bill regulates a situation when you lose custody because someone dies. That is why you have the right to receive care or unemployment benefits Depending on the situation in which you are in. Because as far as pre-retirement benefits are concerned, you have to have certain conditions of internship and age of 60 years... [[Yes.]] ...and 25 years of internship To acquire such a right. In such a situation, it is possible. In case-law, as we were hoping... If someone lost it, then they would lose custody, but it would still matter. as a guardian. That's why this calculation, which I presented, is what it was about. But, as I say, the whole problem is that we need to sort out this system, which unfortunately... [[That's another thing.]] ...was, Mr. Senator, as you well know, by your government, the previous government, thoroughly disassembled. And that's what it looks like today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u297	Thank you very much again, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u298	Messages. Meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications for the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and the Act on Pre-retirement Benefits Meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of applications submitted at the twenty-nineth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Payment Services and certain other laws, Senate printing 310, to the Act on National Tax Administration, Senate printing 312, and to the Act introducing the Act on National Tax Administration, Senate printing 313, will take place tomorrow at 8.00 in room 217. The joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law amending the Law on Government Departments and on certain other acts of print No 293 s will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. in room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-senat-29-1.u299	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. At 10 a.m., we will proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, etc. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 18 minutes 43]]
