ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u1	I open the 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Marek Pęk, Senator Waldemar Sługocki and Senator Rafał Ambrozik to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Waldemar Slugocki, who will be replaced on the first day of the session by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. I inform you that the Sejm at its 30th meeting on 16 November 2016 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act on National Tax Administration, to the Act on National Tax Administration, to the Act amending the Act on Government Administration and some other laws, to the Act amending the Law on Rail Transport and some other laws. On 12 October 2016, the President of the Council of Ministers forwarded to the Senate a report on the implementation of the National Anti-Mounting Programme in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015. I sent this document to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The committees took note of the document and informed me of it. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-seventh and twenty-eightth Senate meetings, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that point 2 and point 8 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these matters have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. and consider it as item two of the agenda; the Law amending the Social Insurance Fund Act and certain other laws and consider it as item 7 of the agenda; the Act amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws and consider it as item 8 of the agenda; the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers and consider it as item 9 of the agenda; the Act amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds and considering it as item 10 of the agenda; the Act amending the Act on agricultural and livestock insurance and consider it as item 11 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u2	I object to the introduction to the agenda of item 8: Act amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u3	Act amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws, right? [[Yes.]] Good. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems to me that in view of the fact that the agenda is very overloaded and is still to be completed, we could certainly move point seven to the next meeting: the Act amending the Pension and Pensions Act from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. The regulations of this particular law are not due to enter into force until October next year. We have enough time to think about it and sit at the next meeting, which is what I'm asking you to do. [[That's a good hint.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u5	Thank you very much. Are there any other votes on my proposal? There isn't. Then we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal made by me... [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote on each bill separately.]] Separately? Okay. In that case, apart from each other, it's separate. Mr Borusewicz, the Marshal, wishes that the Act on the amendment of the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws, to be considered as point eight, should not be considered at this meeting. Who is in favour of my proposal to put this item on the agenda? Please press the "za" button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 69 Senators voted, 46 for, 23 against. [[Voting No 1]] This proposal of mine has been taken into account. The next objection concerns the proposal to introduce a point: the Law amending the Social Insurance Act and certain other laws on pensions and consider it as item seven of the agenda. Senator Augustyn asks that he be considered at the next meeting. Who is in favour of my proposal to include this item on the agenda? Here you go, the button. Who's against it? The anti button. Who's holding back? The button stops. Please report the results. 68 senators voted, 46 votes against, 21 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I find that the High House has accepted my proposal. Are there any other votes on this? [[Voice from the room: No.]] There isn't, okay. Would any of your senators like to take... I take it we're not voting on the whole thing anymore? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No, because... Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? [[So how many points do we have?]] Well, you know, Mr. Senator, I'm not counting, I guess fourteen, but that's not all. I'll keep reading, there'll be further points that... [[So don't be happy.]] We've established that for now, and we've already established that... [[But right now.]] Yeah, right now. Let me repeat the question again: would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I state that the Senate approved the order of the 30th first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I inform you that today the Senate will consider points one and two and then ♪ Tonight ♪ ♪ The votes on these laws will be held. If we do not make it tonight, it will be tomorrow night, but after considering these points and after the committee's deliberations, we will vote on these two laws. [[What time is it?]] Tomorrow's deliberations will begin at 9.00 a.m. from the examination of the point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 35th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland. If no amendments to the draft resolution are tabled, we will vote on this matter immediately after considering this point. We'll be done tomorrow at 3:00. [[Oh, good.]] The point concerning the Act amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws will be discussed on the third day of the meeting, Wednesday. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. High Izbo, in case of preparation of the report by Senate committees, the agenda of the thirty-first sitting may be supplemented by a point: the Act amending the Act on the Charter of Poles and the Act on Foreigners. In addition, in the case of the adoption by the Sejm at its 30th meeting starting tomorrow and following the preparation of the reports by the Senate's agenda for the current Senate meeting, the following points may be added: the Act on countering the unfair use of contractual advantages in trade in agricultural and food products; the Act on amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 and certain other laws; the Act on the amendment of the Law on the Income of Local Government Units and certain other laws; the Act on the Organisation and Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal; the Act on the amendment of certain laws on the Safety and Hygiene of Service. Ladies and gentlemen, the deliberations of this sitting have been extended by an additional day, i.e. December 2nd of this year. It'll last five days. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Corporate Income Tax and the Act amending the Act on Taxation and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 327 and the report of the Commission In print No 327 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u6	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The law was passed by the Sejm on 15 November. On that day too, she was transferred to us, to the Senate. This includes 3 basic changes. The first amendment concerns personal income tax and assumes that the tax scale that was in force in 2015 will apply between 2016 and 2017. The second amendment introduced by the Act is the amendment of the Corporate Income Tax Act. The rules on taxation of investment funds and mutual investment institutions established in a Member State of the European Union other than the Republic of Poland are being amended. The Act assumes that open investment funds and specialised investment funds will continue to be covered by the entity's exemption. In principle, investment funds closed are to be exempted. The change in the tax rules of investment funds and mutual investment institutions is intended, as justified by the draft law, to prevent undesirable tax optimization practices, which, as you know, is now common not only in our country but also in various other countries of the European Union. The third amendment concerns transitional provisions of the Law amending the tax legislation. This change is based on the fact that a clause against tax avoidance is introduced into Polish tax legislation. The second and third amendments, i.e. in the Corporate Income Tax Act and in the Tax Order, are due to enter into force on 1 January of next year and the amendment in the PIT Tax Act is due on 30 November of this year. In advance of any questions from the ladies and gentlemen of the senators, I would like to say that after the last meeting of the budget committee, there were questions and doubts as to the shape of the solutions adopted with regard to the individual tax. In the meantime, a new approach has been created, a new project which I am convinced of is going to be submitted by the senator or by senators today. This project will radically change the shape of the legislation on personal income tax, and I am talking about this in order to warn you about... I will, of course, comply with the obligation that I have taken upon myself, and if you put such questions, I will answer them, but in a few minutes' time my answers may turn out to be obsolete, because a new proposal corresponding in more detail and specifically to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal will be presented today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[The woods of hands.]] I don't know who was first. [[Marshal Borusewicz.]] [[Senator Florek.]] Marshal Borusewicz. There are differences of opinion, but the marshal comes first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u8	Thank you very much. Senator, when you report, you are talking about some future, uncertain events; you are saying that something will be changed. What will be changed and how? [[It's gonna be...]] If this has not yet been changed, then why are you talking about it in the report? And if there's something you know to change, I'd like to ask. [[I'll answer that right away.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u9	Mr. Senator, wait a minute. Not yet. Three questions, three answers. You're welcome, Senator Florek. [[Three questions, one answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, you promised a tax-free amount of PLN 8,000 in the campaign. Now you're announcing that some sudden... Although a committee meeting has been held, a change is to be made suddenly. In that case, I would like to ask: did you discuss at the committee meeting the financial implications of the possible adoption of what you promised in the election campaign? If the amount was free at the level of PLN 8 000, what would be the financial impact on the budget, given, of course, that the shares in PIT have municipalities, have districts? Let us also remember that smaller income from PIT has to be compensated in some way in the counties and municipalities. Is the amount of PLN 8,000... According to the press, there is talk of the amount of 550 zł times 12, which is 6 thousand 600 zł, and here is also the question. If I do not get an answer now, I will in a moment ask the Minister what the financial consequences will be for the amount of PLN 6 000 600, but in this issue, where there was an increase in the amount of free money, but thresholds and percentages would remain as they are now in the bill, because from what we hear... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute. Excuse me.]] Okay, I'm almost done. Since at 6,000 600 zlotys, there's going to be a change...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u11	Mr. Senator, it's been a minute. When we ask a question, you have to fit in a minute. [[Please...]] And don't ask about the election campaign because the election campaign ended a year ago, Mr. Senator. A year ago, the election campaign ended. That's all I need to ask. Senator Blackbay, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u12	Mr. Marshal, I have a question... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[What? The election campaign has already...]] ...to the Senator rapporteur before I move on to the election campaign. Mr. Senator, I'd like you to inform the High House... I was at the committee meeting, but you left that out in your speech, I understand, due to the timing. Tell me about the two elements. First of all, what was the argument for not having a tax-free amount? Such an interpretation was presented at a committee meeting. Secondly, what was the opinion of the legislator on the legality of the tax-free amount? I mean the relationship: the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and the draft law. What was the opinion of the legislator in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u13	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! To answer the first question, I will remind you of what I said in the first words of my report. This proposal, which was discussed two weeks ago at the committee meeting, provided that in 2016 and 2017 the same tax scale as in 2015. Of course, no solution after the committee meeting is 100% sure or perfect. There have also been opinions that this solution would not have been met by the end of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Further proposals were therefore made. On the basis of these proposals, I think there are concrete proposals for changes that we will be hearing about today. I don't know if your marshal is satisfied with this answer. As regards the second question, concerning the analysis of the changes that would have been made to the budget, I must say that there have been no specific analyses. It was a seym project and the Minister did not have such analyses. But we agreed that during the debate and discussion in the Senate, the Minister would be able to respond more widely. Of course, this is so difficult that if a specific proposal for a free amount were given, it would be possible to make calculations or simulations as to how this would have an impact on the budget, but there was no specific amount. In answer to the third question, Senator Czarnobaj's question, which was the argument, I would say that the argument was that in 2018 a completely different tax system would enter into force, consisting in paying uniform tribute, and therefore no such changes would be made at that time. As far as the senator's second question is concerned, the opinion was negative.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u15	All the answers already, right? Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u16	Mr Marshal, Senator Włosowicz, the draftsman of the committee, presented the work of our committee very fairly, but in view of the fact that he had announced that an amendment would be tabled, which would radically change, will overturn what we agreed at the committee meeting, I would like to know whether we would have the right to ask questions to the senator of the applicant who will present this amendment as important? It's about getting to know her, because she's about to completely change the bill that the committee has already accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this is a parliamentary project, so I'm asking the senator: doesn't the senator think that the procedure that is taking place today is to treat the president like a errand boy? Well, in order for this bill to enter into force, it has to be published in the Official Journal of the Laws by September 30... [[No, until November.]] Yeah, until November 30th, so it can apply from January 1st. We're investigating her today, and today is November 28th. To be praised, and we want to make amendments, because the senator announced that there would be amendments to this bill, she still has to go to the Sejm so that the Sejm can accept our amendments. It'll be November 29th. There's only one day left, which is November 30th, so you're gonna have to get the president here so he can sign this bill on his knees. Do you think that the kind of procedure that's taking place today is for the president to have to sign a bill on his knees, it's a show of respect for the first person in the country? Thank you. [[No, all day, all night...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u19	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u20	Thank you. The first question, Senator Kleina, isn't really addressed to me, so that... [[Mr. Marshal.]] [[I'm not answering questions right now.]] [[All questions, including the rapporteur's senator, are always addressed by a marshal.]] It wasn't directed at me. [[At the committee meeting, Mr Senator, there will be an in-depth discussion and debate.]] And the second question goes completely beyond what we discussed at the committee meeting because it concerns the broadly understood legislative process in Poland. On the one hand, sometimes ♪ we're complaining ♪ Here I speak my private opinion; it is not related to the course of the committee's work. The fact that certain procedures take us a lot of time, and on the other hand, when we do something quickly and efficiently, we do not consider it to be smooth proceding, but we see the negative side of such proceding itself. I remember that when I was quite young and there was a big change in Poland, everyone, the whole parliament worked diligently until 31 December and amended the laws so that we could enter into the new year with a completely different legal system in the country. I think that's what we're proud of. Right? I hope that... we should be more positive about our work, if we're doing something fast, efficient and sensible, then we can applaud ourselves. Thank you very much. [[All the answers?]] Yes, to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u21	Good. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u22	Mr. Senator, you mentioned the judgment of the Constitutional Court that you discussed during the committee meeting. Since when did the Court order an increase in the amount free? That's the first question. And the other. If this is not done as you propose in this project All I'm talking about is this submission, and I'm not referring to what's not there yet. How many taxpayers are going to lose on this, and how much is it going to cost?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u23	Thank you very much. Senator Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, is the matter of the joint tax settlement of spouses unchanged?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u26	Mr. Senator, a little in the spirit of my colleagues' earlier questions... I am less concerned with the situation in which the President will be placed, and more about the quality of our laws, by the Sejm and by the Senate, then signed by the President. Do you really think that in matters such as PIT issues or CIT issues, which determine the wealth of Polish wallets, a debate needs to be held one day at a time, which must end quickly, because it must go through the successive stages of the legislative process, in short, in an accelerated manner, to work on what can be worked on in the ordinary way?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. Please answer me, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u28	I'll answer the questions in order. This judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal dates from 28 October last year. [[November.]] As far as common taxation is concerned, that's the way it's gonna go... [[But since when did the Court order an increase?]] Until November 30th this year... Joint taxation, as I said, will stay. There was also a question about the mode of work, whether we should proceed so quickly. [[Why not?]] Mr. Senator, this is where we refer again... That's what my earlier answer was about. It's all legal. It is important that, in the case of income tax, taxpayers know what will be decided by 30 November of the previous year. And whether it will be known on the last day or a few days, weeks or months before, our law does not speak. All he's saying is that before the next year, by 30 November, that's the decision. [[Mr. Marshal, I haven't received an answer to the question.]] Exactly. I think there was another one. [[According to this project... the tax-free amount is not to be introduced... how many taxpayers will lose in one tax year and how much?]] Mr. Senator, I can't answer that question because I don't know in detail the proposal to be presented yet. It will go in such a way that the amount of free will be increased, but I don't know the details yet, so I can't answer you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Komarnicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u30	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, it's such a fresh matter. Mr Morawiecki recently said that the foundation, the strong foundation of the constitution for entrepreneurs, is the legal certainty clause. How does this project have legal certainty for entrepreneurs, for Polish investors who have invested their own funds? Closed investment funds... You're trying it today. I'm sorry to say it. Double taxation. I believe, Senator, this is the wrong way, the wrong direction. Let me remind you of the so-called. Polish funds, about FIZs, are more than 600 in which considerable resources are collected. This is 149 billion capital, which is reinvested in Poland. How does this all fit into Mr Morawiecki's plan? And how does this apply to the plan of responsible development, in which the main axis is investing in Poland, among others. The private capital you accused it wasn't, would I say, with your option?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u31	Are there any more questions? There isn't. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u32	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I believe that this is a question that goes beyond the subject matter of the committee. At the committee meeting we discussed such solutions, not other solutions, and the senator asked here as if a broader question, what we are deciding in our country and whether it would be one or another. I think the senator could redirect this question to the Minister. The Minister will tell you in detail. It is a question of choice of the way. I hope that it will indeed be appropriate and, I would say, effective and that no one will be harmed. [[But you will agree, Senator, that this is a very important question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u33	Mr. Senator, we're not having a conversation. We're just asking questions. If you turn yourself in, I'll give you the floor. Senator Mieczysław Golba, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u34	Mr Senator, I would like to ask if you are aware of whether the Ministry of Finance is working to ensure that this amount is similar in the case of Poles to that of other citizens of the European Union. In Denmark it is e.g. 26 thousand zlotys. Or perhaps, as in Spain, we will reach over seventy thousand zlotys. If I am not mistaken, in Spain the tax-free amount is 74 thousand PLN. My question is this: do you think that we should raise this amount in Poland to at least above PLN 10,000 or even to PLN 20, maybe PLN 25,000? Does this belong to the Poles? Thank you very much. [[It does.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u35	Thank you, Senator. There are two elements in your question. The first concerns whether such work is ongoing in the Ministry. Well, I wouldn't want to fall under the authority of the Minister. I hope you can ask the Minister. The second point is kind of typical... This is a question addressed to me, about what my view is in terms of finance or, more broadly, economics. I think the amount of free money is a good solution. In any society that has its finances in order, it should deserve the least earners. Of course, in every country this is a different level. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u36	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u37	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I will once again refer to Senator Komarnicki's question. We talked and I know it, but I would ask you to answer as rapporteur. Mr. Senator was talking about individual interpretations of closed investment funds. [[Exactly.]] These aren't rich people's funds. They are largely small scale funds. Yeah, I'm sorry, I'll tell you. That's one thing. Secondly, these are Polish citizens... [[...Polish people.]] ...who have received 200 000 individual interpretations since 2004. You're throwing it away. The point is for you to report back to the committee meeting and to answer why you are going in this direction. That was Senator Komarnicki's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u38	Mr Senators, as we remember from the committee meeting, the Minister has committed himself to a general interpretation which, as I say, will cut any questions and uncertainties on this issue. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to correct.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u39	A corrigendum of whose words? [[Mr. Senator.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u40	Mr. Senator, as Senator Klein said, you are reporting in very detail... I just want to say, to clarify your speech, that the Minister committed himself to this interpretation during another discussion we had, not this one. But there was a declaration. In another case, but it was.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u41	It wasn't a corrigendum, it was a polemic. Senator Florek... I found out that Marshal Karczewski was a group of questions, so I'll allow three questions. Senator Florek, then Senator Rulewski. Does anyone else want to ask a question? Okay, that's the two questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u42	Mr. Senator, at the committee meeting did the government suggest that the tax-free amount should be increased in some way, or was it just an initiative Which we don't know yet, but we'll find out. Is there a group, one or two Members who are going to make this amendment today? Was there such enlightenment on the part of these Members, or was there any suggestion that such a change should be made?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u43	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u44	There are groups of taxpayers here I think of the poorest, on the border of the minimum existential Who, however, pay taxes. They're unemployed, they're recipients of social security benefits. As a result of the change of this threshold of PLN 6 000 600, it will actually equal or pay taxes in the order of PLN 2.50, PLN 4.80. My question is, has this problem been analyzed, and is there any point in these people calculating taxes or doing it for them by the officials at the employment office? This is how I join and adapt the senator's statement that the service will be more expensive than this problem. Was that considered again? And is that included in the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u45	Is there another question? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u46	Mr. Senator, you are announcing an amendment and saying that this was mentioned at the committee meeting. For us, it's... [[No way. There was no amendment.]] That wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting. Well, I understand you know that privately. As I understand it, the question is, what is the attitude of the ministry towards something that doesn't exist, and what can be, is pointless. Therefore, I repeat the question. Please tell me, according to this project we are talking about right now, how many taxpayers will lose in the course of the tax year Not taking into account what there is, which we know nothing about and to which we do not know what the ratio of the ministry is. So let's talk about what you adopted at the committee meeting. How many taxpayers are gonna lose on the non-implementation of the Constitutional Court judgment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u47	Thank you. You're still Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u48	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as I recall, something may have slipped my mind. You have not introduced any transitional provisions, and it is not really clear how to qualify for revenue components acquired or transferred before the proposed provisions enter into force. You're hitting not only investors, but you're hitting small people as well. And I'd like to ask you, Senator, for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u49	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u50	I'll start by asking Senator Florek if the government was suggesting a solution. No. Since it was a proposal from the Seym, the government did not occupy as such a position and did not suggest any solutions. Another question. If there are any cases that, after this amount has been released... in the event of a free amount later it will turn out that someone will be paying some small money, will it not cost more? I'd like to ask the Minister to answer that question. There are general rules where, with small amounts, this tax is not levied. But since this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations, I think that the technical, technical and financial details of the Minister could answer the questions. Mr Augustine's question: how many citizens will gain or lose? Because we didn't have that estimate at the time... As I said, it is a parliamentary project, therefore the Minister did not participate as if he were actively in the discussion of this law. But the entire analytical apparatus is on the ministry's side, so I'm sure the Minister will be able to address these details. And here I have the same request or suggestion. If Senator Komarnicki hadn't gotten angry To ask the Minister for details, because it was not discussed in such detail at committee level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u51	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u52	Dear Senator rapporteur, you yourself prove, answering these questions, that the questions of your colleagues were right about where this was coming from. You can't answer any important question about how many people it's going to be about... what group of people it's going to be about, how much they're going to lose, how much they're going to gain. You are unable to answer these questions, and you say that this procedure is excellent, and this procedure is good. And Senator Bierecki here from the bench screamed, and why not do so? However, I would like you to refer to this because you do not answer the questions, to most of the questions you answer that you do not know.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u53	Are there any more requests for questioning? There you go. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u54	Thank you. Recently, Prime Minister Morawiecki has encouraged investors in London to invest... Today, at the meeting of our committee, we had the pleasure of talking to the Swiss ambassador, who said that the President, as he was with them recently, encouraged the Swiss to invest in Poland. What do you think, as you want, by radically changing the law at the moment, to encourage investors to invest in Poland? Isn't that a denial of what you say on the one hand, and on the other hand you do?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u55	Thank you. Are there any more calls? I can't see. Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u56	I'm answering Senator Zdrojewska's question. Senator, I can't give you such data because they didn't drop out at the committee meeting, so it's hard for me to say something that wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting. If I have such data, it is on the basis that I follow current issues related to the implementation of the budget, with the state of the Polish economy, but it was not the subject of a meeting or such data was not shown. The budget committee itself, as you know, does not have such analytical instruments that it can make calculations on an ongoing basis, simulations of the changes that a given movement will bring, a tax proposal. So I suggest And I'm asking you to. To address this question to the Minister, because the Ministry is an appropriate institution with a number of departments, departments, including analytical ones, which certainly has these data. So much for me when it comes to that question. As for the answer to Senator Dowhan's question, it also goes beyond, Mr Senator, the scope of the committee's deliberations. We're going into some kind of economic, domestic marketing here, but this is another discussion, not that... Well, maybe it's not that committee, but that bill didn't cover it. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u57	Mr. Senator, I was asking if anyone else was asking a question... Okay, so we're doing the last round. Senator Augustyn, then Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u58	Mr. Marshal, I don't know anything about rounds of questions. Anyway, I'd like to ask if... Since this is a law adopted by the Sejm, you had the government's position. What was it like? Because I understand that the Sejm has adopted a law on not raising the tax-free amount by votes of members of the coalition, I understand that with the approval of the government or at least the ministry. Was this opinion presented?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u59	Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u60	Thank you. However, I will be digging this up, Senator rapporteur. You answer that you didn't know that the government hadn't been able to say that you hadn't yet known, and you didn't ask. But you could take a break, ask the government to build information on the financial consequences of the bill we're looking at. I would like to ask why you, as rapporteur or chairman of the committee, did not ask the government to calculate this and to provide precise information so that we could know what decision we are making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u61	Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u62	I will no longer ask the rapporteur questions, because from all this it seems that you are not able to answer any questions. And it turns out that none of your options at the committee meeting asked government representatives any questions about the issues that ladies and gentlemen should be pursuing, so that you can clearly explain to the voters what this great idea is. I therefore have this proposal, Mr Marshal, and I would ask that this be included as a substantive proposal... I don't have time to ask the senator any questions. Let's ask a government representative, a minister, or someone he's gonna send out to stand on this speaker and just start answering questions that no one has ever answered so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u63	Senator, the Minister is sitting right behind your back, and he's probably ready to answer all your questions. It is your colleagues who ask questions to Senator Włosowicz, so please appeal to your colleagues. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u64	I have a question as to whether, in connection with this law, even though it is a parliamentary project, any consultation has been carried out, has anyone consulted any opinion, such as substance? The point is not to play cat and mouse like you did with the voters. Because some have already calculated this tax-free amount since 2017 and probably those money they haven't deducted... Maybe they've already spent it. I have another question. If you're not able to answer, for example. to the question of Senator Augustine as to how many people this concerns, and what are the amounts, then perhaps it would be better to take a technical break and then answer us in detail to that question? However, we are working on the matter of people and their money, which they carefully count, unlike some.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u65	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u66	Mr Marshal, this is a truly embarrassing performance that the rapporteur, a representative of the Senate Committee, who decides on such key issues as the issue of how much money citizens can spend, how much they will tell you, etc., is unable to answer our questions, most of our questions. I will ask the rapporteur the following question: are there any questions you would be able to answer? Pick them out. [[Applause]] [[What's your name, sir?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u67	Senator Dobrzyński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u68	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. These are embarrassing questions from members of the Platform, senators or senator of the Civic Platform. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that this is the rapporteur of the committee. And I have a question for you, Senator rapporteur: were the former members of the Senate Civic Platform club at the committee meeting you are now representing? And was there a government side? And have these questions or the issues we have heard here been raised at the committee meeting, which you are rapporteur for?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u69	Thank you. Are there any more calls? I don't see... Oh, Mr. Marshal Borowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u70	Mr. Senator, you're the rapporteur for this project, not another project. We are referring here to a potential amendment which will, of course, completely change the nature of this solution, but I am talking about this proposed project. So you are the rapporteur of this project and, as I understand it, you recommend its adoption. Right? That's how I understood your statement. [[We're discussing him for now...]] [[The committee...]] [[It's the committee...]] No, no. You're done discussing... [[Joy in the Chamber]] You've finished your discussion and started answering questions. So I'm asking what was the conclusion of your report. [[Yes...]] To accept this project? [[Okay, ……]] [[Relax, Mr. Senator, let the marshal speak to you.]] That's to accept this project. Well, this is a two-part project. The second part is omitted because it is a matter of investment funds, interpretations, etc. And in the first part, there is an extension of the tax-free amount for the following period. The trick here is that in this project this recipe gets a different article number. And this, according to the authors, is enough to satisfy the Constitutional Tribunal. No, it's not. And there's an opinion on this, and there's the Supreme Court's opinion that it's not enough to change the numbers... If the numbers could be changed this way, any ruling of the Court could be dealt with in this way. So briefly, you repeat the non-constitutional rule. And that is why I ask: why do you recommend accepting this solution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u71	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u72	I answer questions. The first, presented by Senator Augustine: why, as the Senate, we change something, so I took away this question, which was passed in the Sejm and presented to us. Well, that's our law, the Senate law. I don't know if that's what you meant. [[No, Mr. Senator. I meant... if you recommend adopting this law on the non-imposition of the amount... of the tax-free amount, how much will the Constitutional Tribunal order, lose the Poles and lose how many? This is the third time I've asked the same question, the basic question, and I can't get an answer.]] Since there were no calculations at the committee meeting, I think And I'm gonna say it again. You should address this question to the Minister, who has an appropriate analytical and financial apparatus and will give you an answer. Nevertheless, in my opinion, this is the calculation of amounts of a little bit of virtual that do not have a reference in reality. [[Virtual? Virtual is...]] The same goes for the questions asked by the senator. One of the ladies Who politely noted that I was not giving any amounts. Such amounts were not paid, Senator, at the committee meeting. Since we agreed that there would be a status quo, which means we adopted a solution from the previous year, it's hard to say that I'm gonna lose something next year if I have a solution like last year. Well, it's a little bit of a fairy tale that's sometimes in fairy tales: oh, how good would it be if we worked like this and planted a whole field of grain, and how much later would we have... But we're gonna... Since we haven't planted this field with grain, we don't collect it, we don't grind it, and then we don't have a kilo of it. And you're asking me what would have happened if it had been. As I say, as I repeat, in a project that I hope lies before you, is now a proposal that has been voted out and I'm here to answer to the marshal. It was approved by the committee that there should be no changes in income tax for this year, for this one month and for the next year, i.e. 2017. Once again, I would stress that the justification for this project was such that in 2018 a completely new tax solution consisting of the introduction of a single tribute would enter into force. That's why for 13 months... [[She's not supposed to be here.]] [[She's not supposed to be here.]] [[You're not up to date.]] ...we're not introducing any other solution. As far as Senator Robert Dowhan's question is concerned, it was a parliamentary project, and the request to specify in detail how much money someone will receive is a duplication of the question asked in another way, which has just been asked. Maybe the Minister has these calculations showing what's going to happen if we assume one, not another, but it's just that it's so... Someone's gonna ask how much $6,000 600, someone else is gonna say $8,000, and I'm gonna say $12,000. I don't know if there's any sense in this analysis. If there is a concrete proposal, then it can be addressed on the financial side. For now, the amount has been presented. I'm gonna say it again. The same as in previous years. It's not indexed, it's on the same level. I'll answer the senator's question. Were the former representatives of the second club? Yes, of course they were. There was also a representative of the Ministry of Finance in the person of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u73	Thank you. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u74	Mr. Senator, do you realize that maybe not, which is why I'd like to hear it from you. This project, which contains these three articles amending the laws, is harmful, even very harmful to the capital market in Poland, which is already, what is it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u75	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u76	Mr. Senator, you referred to Senator Augustine's question, and I'd like to give you a little thought, so to speak, to help you answer. Would you agree with me that keeping this amount free as it has been so far And you voted in the committee that nothing would change, would cause all taxpayers, as mentioned in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, to bear the costs because they would not have a higher tax-free amount? Your announcements say that some taxpayers, up to 3 million probably, will not lose, and we, all the others, will lose. Is it correct to say that without changing this rule of law, we would all lose it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u77	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u78	Perhaps I haven't made myself quite clear, and perhaps the senator. How can I say this? It avoids answering my question, so I'm going to ask it a little bit more clearly. Let's say the Sejm and the Senate adopt the law in which the article. 2 is said to introduce preventive censorship. This is directly incompatible with the Constitution, so the case goes to the Court. The Court finds that this is contrary to the Constitution and requires the deletion of that provision on 30 November. Therefore, a project appears on 28 November which also states that preventive censorship is being introduced, but not in the article. 2, only in Article. 5. Well, because the Court deleted the article. 2, that doesn't prevent it from being included in the article. 5. I think you understand that this is absurd. Right? And this project you're recommending is exactly what you're proposing. The provision which the Court removed was ruled that it disappeared on 30 November. You introduced it back, only with a different number. So I ask: why do you recommend accepting this project? After all, the committee should recommend rejecting such a project, and whether there will be any new amendments that may change the attitude of the High House is a completely different subject. I think this project should be thrown out. What do you say?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u79	Thank you. Does anyone else come forward to ask a question? I don't see any volunteers. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u80	Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, answering Senator Robert Dowhan's question about whether or not this project is already having a negative impact on the capital market, I would say that this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. But it's a very debatable subject, I think, for another meeting. Because in order to so arbitraryly state that a project that has not entered into force already has a negative impact on the Polish capital market, I think it is necessary to have some extrasensory vision of the future, or at least I do not have it. As far as the answer to Mr. Marshal Borowski's question is concerned, even if we agree with this solution, as you say, we will replace point 2 with point 5... until it is notified to the Court and he finds that... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, there's no such thing as... [[Talking in the O.R.]] On the other hand... [[Talking in the O.R.]] On the other hand... [[Calm down, please.]] I am trying to tell you several times this afternoon or evening that, in my opinion, this first part, relating to personal tax, will probably have a different shape and all these distortions about whether this is in line with the Court's ruling, which the Court will say is what the amount, who will lose on it, how many billions, will not have any reason at all after tonight.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u81	Thank you. Are there any more calls? If not, thank you very much, Senator, for your answers. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.]] The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: No, at this stage I have nothing to say.]] No? Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u82	Mr. Marshal, as you can imagine, these questions will be from our club. In particular, it is this question that has not been answered so far. If it is so that the committee recommended a solution that there would be no change in the tax-free amount, and we expect the government to propose a change in this amount, because, for example, in today's Legal News, there is a large material on this subject, in which Prime Minister Morawiecki speaks very clearly about the progressiveness of the tax-free amount, it radically turns this recommendation upside down, which we have just heard. I'd like to hear from you... I would like to ask the government representative to answer the question whether the government is really going to introduce into the bill we are considering today, which is probably going to be voted on today, an amendment that will change the provision on the tax-free amount.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein. [[The minister will answer from the spot or... maybe we could...]] We'll get right on that. [[Well, you always talk better when you see a person, don't you? 'Cause it's probably gonna be...]] Does the Minister want to answer from the place or from the platform? [[From the podium, if you please.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: From the speaker.]] From the podium? There you go. There is a Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Mr Paweł Gruza. Thank you very much, Minister. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u84	Minister, at the committee's meeting, when, as a committee, we recommended the adoption of this law with the same tax-free amount as it was in previous years, the government strongly supported this solution and all our voices that we had to come closer to the solution proposed by the Constitutional Tribunal were rejected by a representative of the government by the Minister. What has happened in the past few weeks... two weeks that you have completely changed the option in this matter and today you are preparing an amendment that will be tabled by the senators that the tax-free amount is to be counted differently?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u85	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u86	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, since Senator rapporteur can be said, you have been asked my two questions, could you answer me? [[But could you repeat that? Because I don't know if the Minister...]] I thought you had a record. [[Did you take notes from the Minister?]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: Well, if you can repeat...]] [[If you could repeat...]] You're welcome. My first question was that you did not introduce any transitional provisions, Minister, and it is not really clear how to qualify the revenue components acquired or contributed before the proposed provisions came into force. In this way, you hit investors, not only large investors, but also small dealers. That was my first question. Secondly, Minister, my question was that we are impressed by Prime Minister Morawiecki, who said that the foundation of the constitution for entrepreneurs is a legal certainty clause. How is the law discussed here for legal certainty for entrepreneurs, for Polish investors who have invested their own funds in closed investment funds, which today you are trying to double tax? I think it's the wrong way, the wrong direction. And let me remind you, Minister, that there are over 600 FIZs, where about 149 billion capital is raised. You will admit that this is a huge capital which is reinvested in Poland. It's a very important issue. How does this apply to Mr Morawiecki's plan and how does this apply to the plan of responsible development, in which the main axis After all, I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's speech. Is investing in Poland, among other things, private capital? Of course, we reject the hypothesis that this is the capital of the Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like you to confirm or deny it. 'Cause I get these questions from my constituents. Do you...? I'm already referring to an amendment that... [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Well, there isn't, but I won't be able to ask the minister any more questions in the Senate, because then only the rapporteur will be... [[It's not here yet.]] [[Yeah, that's right.]] I assume that the Minister in the media knows the contents of this amendment. Oh, let's take that option. And my question is: will something change in the rules of common taxation of spouses and if both spouses reach up to PLN 170 000 and are taxing themselves together, will this amount remain at the same level as it is now, or PLN 3091? Is there any change in this regard from the law that we are currently pursuing? So the first question is whether the principle of common taxation will change. Because that's what the concerned voters are asking me. And the second question is: how will this new principle of tax-free settlement be developed in different groups? I mean, I'm talking about the first tax group, which is 85 thousand PLN. Will something change here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u89	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, as to whether the government is proposing an amendment to change the amount free, no, this is the amendment tabled by the Senator. About whether anything's changed... [[Not yet...]] [[Calm down, please.]] ...since... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please. Let the Minister answer the questions.]] ...assessments of the previous version of the bill, we examine every proposal, respect every proposal and calculate its budgetary implications. We assessed the budgetary impact of the current proposal, which was made publicly several decades ago in front of the Senate. We estimate its negative impact on the budget for the value of up to PLN 1 billion, which, nevertheless, we consider an acceptable change. That's why we're not saying negative. We are able to bear this cost, given, of course, the fact that we are implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Court. It also has its dimension in this discussion as to whether the proposal for legislative change will be assessed positively by the Court or not. We believe that the fact that we are executing the judgment, its merit, will also make the procedure or method of carrying out this change positive. If I can refer to the topic of FIZ and so-called. double taxation or attempted double taxation, I must express a firm protest. We're not talking about double taxation here, we're talking about a certain level of decency, i.e. a single taxation of operating income realised by assets on the management board of the FIZ. We believe that this type of seal has a substantive justification, and it follows that the FIZ as such... The instruments of mutual investment are designed to de facto defer the tax rather than eliminate it, to which some abuses have led on the one hand, and on the other hand to liberalize the approach to legislation. If it is worth doing business without tax, it is also worth doing business with one-off taxation at the level of operating profit. And that in the case of taking out a profit from the FIZ is also a tax, it is already a consequence of the Polish tax system. I'd like to remind you that abroad... If profit is distributed abroad, there is no such tax. That's by the way. As regards the amendments to the joint clearance, This is how I understand the current proposal, which will be formally tabled in a moment, there is no difference. With regard to the threshold up to 85 thousand PLN, this is an obvious advantage in this lowest range of earnings. Up to 85,000... and then there's no negative effect on... that's how the characteristics of benefits or disadvantages are shaped. Mr. Marshal, thank you. [[I'm sorry, but I didn't get an answer to my question about transitional provisions. I clearly justified...]] As I understand it, the project did not lay down transitional provisions. The change is moving towards taxation of the operating profit of transparent tax companies. It seems to me that once taxation of this kind of profit does not require transitional provisions, and even I think it is... should have happened earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. [[I disagree, I apologize, Minister, with this interpretation. I'm glad those answers are being recorded.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u92	I would like to ask what is not there, about what is organized, but... Minister, please tell me what revenue will be generated by the state budget in the event of the maintenance of the rates that the bill provides for.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u93	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u94	I don't know if the Minister listened to that difficult question I asked the Senator the rapporteur. Well, there are very low-income groups of taxpayers. And it may turn out that as a result of the announced increase in the amount of free money they will have to pay a tax of 2,50, 12 or 17 PLN. First of all, the question is whether they should pay taxes at all, because they don't have any income because they spend everything on living. Secondly, are the costs of this operation not exceeding any profits, or is it moral, or is it control, bureaucracy? Why didn't you take this into account?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u95	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u96	Minister, the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled that, in so far as the provisions of the Natural Persons Income Tax Act do not provide for a mechanism to correct the amount reducing that tax guaranteeing at least the minimum existence, they are incompatible with the Constitution. Today this amount is about PLN 6 000 600. The state as a government, recommending the adoption of this law as it is now being submitted to us, I understand, assume that this amount will remain at the level of PLN 3 000. Please tell us how much you want to save in relation to the amount ordered by the Constitutional Court's judgment, how much do you want to save, leaving the amount at the current level. I don't want to hear any more about something that doesn't even exist as an amendment, and I don't refer to it at all because it's not in the legislative sense. Let's talk about what the government in the Sejm supported and how much it would cost us, the Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u97	Thank you. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u98	Mr. Marshal, Minister, it seems to me that at the moment there is a certain embarrassment of the Senate and the way in which the law is created, it is about how it will be processed. I would also like to ask the Minister questions, but I would like to ask questions that concern important issues, issues that have not been raised... [[...who aren't here.]] ...who aren't here, so I can't ask them. I would like to ask about the financial consequences of the introduction of these amounts 6 000 600 PLN, 8 000 PLN etc. At the moment, I cannot ask the Minister that question, and when the Minister has finished answering, the debate will begin. Therefore, my question, Mr Marshal: is it because of this method of proceding, somewhat ridiculous, that the Minister will be at our disposal after the debate? The point is that, after the debate, we can ask these questions that we want to ask now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u99	We follow the rules. Now there's a series of questions for the Minister. Senator Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u100	Unfortunately, in such a tone, as it were, following Senator Flork, because in my opinion, we participated in something ridiculous to the Senate, in violation of his seriousness. We're talking, Senator Borowski is talking about the bill that we have in front of us right now, we've got the materials, he's talking about it. Meanwhile, the Minister just said that two hours ago there was a conference where something was presented. Minister, we don't work at press conferences, we should get materials and corrections. And since the Senate Rules of Procedure are what they are, and they probably won't allow us to ask questions later, I now appeal either to the Minister to explain what this amendment is all about, which is supposed to be, and she's not... [[There isn't, and there isn't a right...]] ...please say it, or I appeal to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let me finish. ...or I appeal to the Senator of Law and Justice, who intends to report this amendment, so that he has the courage to go out and I present it. [[Especially in a minute.]] I'm asking you to. Then we'll be able to sit down normally.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u101	Thank you very much, Senator, but you know very well the rules and you know that such an amendment can only be tabled in the debate, and now we are in the next round of questions to the Minister. Mr. President Klich. You're welcome. [[But I call for courage, for example. He tried to ask a question while explaining...]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[I could do it. I could do it. I appeal for courage.]] That would be against the rules. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u102	Minister, please take my question seriously. Well, 20 minutes ago, we were talking about this recommendation that came out of the committee, which was to keep the tax-free amount at the current level. Right now, we're talking about something that might happen, but it doesn't have to, because nothing is doomed. Therefore, I will ask about the political will of the government, not about any amendment, but about the political will of the government. Is it true what I read in today's press that only in the case of annual income between PLN 11 000 and PLN 85,5 thousand will the current tax deduction be maintained, in the case of income below PLN 11 000 the tax-free amount will be significantly increased, and in turn if the income is above PLN 85,5 thousand, the amount will decrease to zero? Is that the political will of the government? If we hear this, at least, for God's sake, we'll know. At 6:21 p.m., so a few hours before the vote, which we might be discussing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u103	Thank you very much. Senator Bierecki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u104	Minister, I've been holding back from asking questions, because I think this discussion is taking us a little bit too long, but... I'd like to ask you the following question. Minister, how long has the tax-free amount been frozen and in what years has it been frozen? And the second question I would like to ask is: how much have the citizens of the Republic lost as a result of the freezing of the tax-free amount over this long period? This judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which we are talking about, concerns actions prior to 2015, refers to the actions of the government represented by the Civic Platform and PSL. If the Minister wanted to tell us how much the Poles lost in the government of PO-PSL during the freezing of the tax-free amount...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u105	There have been very important questions from President Bierecki, so perhaps this is a good time to take a break from the Minister's answers. You're welcome, Minister. [[I have a formal conclusion.]] Okay, but first let's let the minister answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u106	Maybe I'll start by asking how much the government wants to save, by supporting or expressing political will, as the senator has put it nicely... I think that's a wrong question. It's not about whether we're saving or not. The Ministry of Finance is working on sealing and rationalising the tax system. Work and discussions are being carried out at the highest political level on the single tribute. I hope that the system of tax changes that we propose will lead to the fact that we will be able to relieve, whether it is to taxpayers of personal income tax, whether it is to businesses in VAT. The point is that we go down from effective tax rates, guaranteeing budget revenues or even them, I would say, by increasing. As regards my participation in further work at this Senate meeting, we will, of course, comply with any wishes you wish under the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I will not appeal as a representative to the senators to take or not take formal action to submit amendments or withdraw them. Senator Klich, if I recall correctly, sums up the political will of the government perfectly. And here's where I'm gonna end... Yes, persons exhibiting a tax base of less than PLN 11 000 per year will have an additional advantage or tax advantage resulting from this shape of the amendment which was presented. Yes, people who earn more than 85 000 a year or have a tax base of more than 85 000 a year can unfortunately expect a certain weakening of the tax advantage of Let's call it labor. It's a free amount. It's not really a free amount, but it's a public term. I didn't quite understand the question of Marshal Borusewicz. I'm sorry. If I may, I will respond after consultation. [[I'll say it again...]] Unfortunately, I don't have that number in my head. If Mr. Marshal would be kind enough to repeat... Maybe the people who work with me will tell me that, including the answer. Another question was whether small amounts of tax should be paid. This is a common problem, connected not only with PIT, but with every public tribute. There has to be a moment in time or, you might say, on the scale of the earnings in which the tax begins to be paid. Of course, you can bring it to absurdity, because paying a zloty or 50 gr tax is absurd. I agree, it's ridiculous. But I'm wondering if it's from this absurdity that I'm going to say, any way. At some point everyone has to start paying the tax and it cannot immediately be a very high amount because it would result in a very high marginal tax rate. The earning person, let's say, 6,000 600 zlotys pays nothing. Then for a long, long time nothing, because it is not acceptable to collect 100 PLN, 10 PLN or tax dollars from her. Then this person, as it were, falls into a salary of 10,000 and suddenly pays 500 zlotys or 1000 zlotys of tax. The point is to avoid such awkwardness that he pays a small tax. At this point, we are talking about a very high marginal tax rate, which causes an increased reluctance to earn another dollar, because the taxpayer is, as it were, falling into an absurdly high tax despite a slight change in revenue. If there's a logical-mathematical solution to this paradox, I'd be happy to hear it. It is now that there is a time when income is beginning to generate tax. Unfortunately, we can't avoid small amounts here. The Ordination provides for certain rules of rounding and perhaps it would be necessary to consider whether it would be appropriate to allocate certain rationalizing... I once received a letter from the public about a tax arrears of PLN 0,00. That was three pages of justification. I understand the problem perfectly. Thank you for asking me about the number of years. As I recall, the amount free was frozen for seven years. How many citizens have lost on this? Mr. Senator, unfortunately, I'm gonna have to count this, but I think we're gonna figure out how much citizens have lost in freezing the free sum. [[But you've gained it. It's also worth mentioning why she was frozen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u107	Thank you very much. Senator Klein has a formal motion, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u108	Mr. Marshal, based on the article. 44 of our Rules of Procedure I'd like to make a motion. At the moment, the situation is completely absurd because we are asking questions about a bill that is not there, but everyone knows, and especially part of the government coalition, that such a bill will be and that there will be an amendment. I therefore request that the Marshal undertake to submit an amendment to the Senator, who has been appointed by your club to report this amendment at the appropriate time, or to submit the amendment himself prepared by the Minister of Finance, and then submit it to the Senate Bureau, that is, to your Marshal, before the debate begins. According to this article, in accordance with the practice... The point is to replicate this amendment and make it available to all senators so that we can ask questions and prepare for discussion, knowing what to talk about and discuss. [[There can be no such formal application.]] This is a formal application pursuant to Article. 44 and it is not the role of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to decide what can and cannot be done. [[Which point?]] Another... It's in the article. 44. [[The best you can do is ask for a change in the way you drive...]] [[Voices from the room: No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u109	Mr. Senator, in the article. 48 is... [[In Article 2, paragraph 2 is ……]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 48 is a catalogue of formal applications. Your motion, unfortunately, doesn't fit in this directory. [[What's that? Are we gonna be stuck in this absurdity? So that everyone knows that you've prepared... the Minister has prepared a bill...]] Mr. Senator, with all due respect, this is not a formal conclusion. [[But how are we supposed to proceed? We're in the Senate.]] We're proceeding according to the rules of procedure. [[No, we're mocking parliamentary work.]] I think we should proceed in accordance with the rules of procedure. [[We mock parliamentary work. As you know, I never talk like that, but right now we're just mocking what we're doing.]] [[Very interesting debate. Very.]] I understand, but, Senator, this is not a formal conclusion. [[Yeah, but you can do it...]] I can't. [[...for the sake of the legislative process.]] It's just that I can't do it because it's not a formal conclusion. Senator Frost signed up as the next question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u110	Senator Grzegorz Bierecki beat me a little bit here. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is how I listen to my colleagues from the Civic Platform. If you want to discuss the amendment, it's the best solution... You probably know the rules even better than I do. It's best to close this point. I can commit... [[It's not for you. It's for the marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: I vote.]] But wait a minute, don't vote, just... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: Shh!]] But, Senator, can I just finish? I can declare that... after all, you can make an amendment to the bill at the time of the debate. Yes? [[It can now be reported to the protocol...]] No, according to the rules, it can be reported in the debate... [[Basic error...]] I am sure that the Senator of Law and Justice will be the first to speak and submit this amendment so that you can address it in the debate. I wouldn't want to serve your marshal... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u111	Excuse me. Calm down, please. We are at the point of questioning the Minister. Let's not forget that. Senator Komarnicki. [[I volunteered first.]] [[No, no, I volunteered earlier. I'm sorry. May I speak?]] Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, before I came here, I met with businessmen. I'm an entrepreneur at all. And with legal counsel. I'd like you to calm me down. You're making a change in the tax administration. You are designing a provision that concerns an individual interpretation and automatically repealing this protective power of all interpretations that have been issued since 2004. When the Minister of Finance considers arbitrary that there has been tax avoidance in a given case, even though the taxpayer has had individual interpretations in writing in this case, there will be no protection, Minister. This is, of course, a provision, as you probably know, not in accordance with the rule of law, and it is also a provision that is not in accordance with the article. 2 constitutions. That is the concern of businessmen, Minister. I'd like you to dismantle it for me today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u113	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u114	Minister, are you aware of cases from previous governments that the government has not carried out judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal in financial matters? And the second question is, is this because I refer to one of the senators' statements here? As you suggest, the VAT revenues are much higher in the budget... Did... Then why didn't the government take the initiative to raise the amount of free money in good time so that we could proceed calmly over this bill? Why were you waiting for this to be a parliamentary initiative, and you did nothing yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u115	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u116	Mr. Minister, when addressing Senator Klich's question about how it is supposed to look like this future shape of the bill, he said that, in fact, this tax-free amount will be, so to speak, wave and in this upper part, i.e. more than 85 thousand, there will be some weakening of the tax advantage. Does this return simply mean an increase in taxes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. President Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u118	I will appeal to the political will of the government again, since we have nothing in front of us... I'd like to ask the Minister two things. What will be the number of taxpayers who, if notified and passed the amendment proposed by the government Are they supposed to be in this first group of earning up to 11 thousand zlotys? Secondly, is it true that these are earnings up to about PLN 850 per month... [[Gross.]] [[Gross.]] ...brutto? Because this 11,000 PLN, this first threshold, this year, let's translate into monthly earnings. This is up to approx. 850 PLN gross. Am I right, or am I wrong about my second question? And the first question is, how many taxpayers are there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u119	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u120	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll start with the last question. Contrary to the appearances of such persons, there are many. And on the one hand, it's sad, on the other hand, it's real. Yes, in Poland... We estimate that the benefits will reach 3.5 million people, 19 million people as if they would remain at the same level in terms of settlement. Minimum, let's call it, the negative effect of these reforms will be half a million people, and it can be said that the elimination of the privilege of the amount of free will affect a quarter of a million people. So that's how it goes down in person... I have to say, these are preliminary estimates... [[Are you talking about this new bill, this new project?]] Let me finish. These are preliminary estimates, as we are able to analyse these data as quickly as possible. When it comes to the conversion of the amount, let's call it gross remuneration free, this is PLN 9,000 195 per year; after dividing by 12 this is probably PLN 766 per month. This is the answer to Senator Klich's question. I'll go back to the other questions. Do I know the verdicts? Court of Justice in the field of public finances not executed or executed... I will simply say that our analysis shows that this proposal exhausts the framework or requirements of the Court of Justice in its judgment last year in the judgment in question. Why are you so late? That is a question, in my opinion, entirely procedural. We have two more days to execute the judgment of the Court and we will benefit from that time. One senator's question was this: does this proposal represent an increase in tax for a certain category of income ranges? If the term 'tax increase' is understood as a rate, then no, and if we understand it as a tax wedge, then yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u122	Minister, you are talking about the financial consequences for the state budget of introducing this new tax-free proposal, that it will be about PLN 1 billion, right? What... that the financial impact on the budget of the state of the introduction of this new proposal would be approx. PLN 1 billion. What was the financial impact on the state budget for the amount of free tax at the current level? Because the state, when planning a budget, you probably considered it. Anyway, the consequences of that were last year... And that's the first question. Second question. We say that the biggest beneficiaries of this new proposal, which will be tabled here, will be people whose annual income will be, as we hear, about PLN 6 000 per year. Right? What kind of social groups are they gonna be? Where are they, so to speak, located these people whose total annual income is PLN 6,000? What kind of social group will be the beneficiaries, what kind of people? [[It's about the lowest salary of PLN 2,000...]] Thank you very much. The lowest monthly salary from next year is PLN 2,000 gross. It is known that there are always people who have less income, this is an obvious matter. But who is it? What kind of social groups are gonna benefit from this, well, big actually, privilege?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u123	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u124	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Minister to refer to the following text, which appeared 16 minutes ago on the Business Insider website. It uses a PAP dispatch. According to this text, the Members of the Law and Justice will submit an amendment assuming that the tax-free amount will be raised to PLN 6.6 thousand for the least earners and that it will be submitted during the meeting. In addition, Mr Bierecki in the briefing before the Senate meeting was to admit that the amount corresponds to twelve times the value defined as the existential minimum. And that will lead to the fact that taxpayers will actually apply a tax reduction of PLN 1 thousand 188. Taxpayers receiving annual income giving rise to deduction of tax from PLN 6,6 thousand to PLN 11 thousand will be able to deduct the declining tax between PLN 1 thousand 180 and PLN 566. That's what Senator Bierecki said. He informed that in the case of a range between PLN 11 000 and PLN 85 000, taxpayers would be able to benefit from the current tax reduction amount... [[Senator, I'm sorry...]] I'm just finishing up... [[...but you asked Senator Klich the same question. And the Minister has already answered.]] Yeah, I'm almost done... As Mr Bierecki also said, the PiS amendment assumes that those who earn more than 12 000 a month will not benefit from the tax-free amount. When asked about the costs, Senator PiS replied that the change would cost the state budget around 1 billion. I'd like you to refer to all these...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u125	The Minister has already answered all these questions, really. [[No, not all of them.]] All of them. And all those questions are gone. [[What the Members will do is we don't know.]] [[They know everything.]] Good. Mr. Senator... [[No, not all of them.]] All of them, all of them. Mr. President Klich... [[I would like the Minister to refer to this text and explain it to us.]] I've heard all these questions, they've already come out of your friends' mouths, but okay... Mr. Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u126	Minister, I apologize for my stubbornness, but why do you simply avoid saying that... just to be clear: I do not mind that people with income above 85 thousand PLN pay a higher tax, if that can be justified, just say so. Because you say that, the percentage doesn't change. But if you cancel the tax-free amount, the tax is higher. Besides, you yourself rightly stated that this is not really a tax-free amount, that is a tax-deductible amount. And that amount will no longer be deducted from the tax, that is, the tax will be higher. That's one thing. Second of all, you're using the Ezop language and you're saying that the tax wedge is changing there... What kind of wedge? Just make it clear that this group will pay a higher tax, let's all hear it here. And that's what you have to defend if it's right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u127	Mr. Marshal, is this the question that you're suggesting what you're going to say? [[No, I'm asking if you agree.]] Good. Senator Dobkowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u128	Thank you very much. I would also like the Minister to clarify whether a natural person... I'm talking about this project that's gonna be after the amendment, because there's probably nothing to expect this bill to pass... So will the individuals whose tax base is higher than 85 thousand PLN have no tax-free amount, or will they have less than 6 000 600 PLN or less than they currently have? And second question. On what annual earnings will taxpayers not be able to calculate a tax-free amount at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u129	Thank you. Are there any more calls? You're welcome, Mr. Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u130	I have to ask about the situation on the other hand, i.e. How much a month... Because we know about the amount of 85,5,000 that you have such political will. So how much is gross per month, and how much per month is that second threshold? So, in short, it's about taxpayers making more money and how much they're going to lose compared to the current solution. Because we have just learned from the Minister that those who earn less than 766 PLN remember well? They're going to gain. So I'd like to know what taxpayers are going to lose and how much monthly income they're going to lose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u131	Thank you very much. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u132	I'm gonna let myself start over again. The first reduction of the tax advantage will start with the tax base of 85... [[You can't hear me, Minister.]] Well, unfortunately, you have such low microphones... [[You can pick up the platform.]] [[It's up to the maximum.]] High Minister High taxes. [[You have to lean on the speaker, unfortunately.]] I'm ready before the Senate to bend over. I'm getting back to the thought. The value of income or tax base, which is the first to reduce the existing tax privileges, is PLN 85,5 thousand, which translates into PLN 100 thousand 663 gross income, after dividing by 12 gives a gross salary of PLN 8,000 388. But I would like to point out that between PLN 85 thousand and PLN 127 thousand of the tax base, which translates into probably PLN 146 thousand gross As if the degression of tax benefits or their loss is quite mild. Therefore, in the case of a person who earns 150 000 gross, the loss in tax settlement will amount to about 500 PLN per year, which I consider to be an inexorable cost of this reform. And I think that's also exhausting the senator's question about this range of 85,000, 127,000. What are the consequences of the proposal so far, so to speak, of what is on the table, which is the version of the changes so far? I'm sorry, I can't answer that. They're not counted because they're kind of set up in the system and... Well, I don't know. What social groups were... [[It's in writing...]] [[You can't say the financial consequences.]] I could... If I write this question down exactly, maybe we can count it quickly and I can answer it... But at this point, I can't give it. The whole of this reform is, as I am going to say, to cause a loss of up to PLN 1 billion with various behavioral effects, which may have a perception of raising taxes for earners, as I said, above certain thresholds. If the senator asks what social groups were to be covered by a free amount of PLN 6 000 600, then I will say that this is a wrong question. We, judging this offer... Or rather, those who prepared this amendment did not come from social groups, because at this stage it was the implementation of the demands of the Constitutional Tribunal, and the Constitutional Tribunal does not refer to social groups or classes, but rather to quite hard, technically, force the legislators to do so, not to another amount free. I am already abstracting from the fact that the economic and social system has changed so much during the year, that one can wonder whether the Court's judgment is, so to speak, current in the area of at least the large groups of society which have been honoured with reforms to date. But it's kind of a side topic. I think I've addressed all the questions... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[What about me?]] [[And the question of Marshal Borowski?]] [[Senator Florek. I'm asking you a question...]] Oh, right, I'm sorry, because she was actually... Senator, let me put it this way: I confirm everything in the PAP memo. I myself stood and listened to Senator Bierecki, who proposed this change. In this regard, I confirm that information you have provided. Although at first you were talking about Members and I thought it was more of a senator issue. As regards the allegation that my answers to the simple question whether we raise taxes are too technical, I must say that the sum of the collected budget revenue will fall. Therefore, we are reducing taxes in this sense. And as for the fact that there is a certain shift within the taxpayer population as to the value of their final tax account, I confirm again. As I said in my first speech... [[Ad vocem.]] ...and I think it's not a hermetic language: yes, there's something like a tax wedge and it's going to increase for a certain group of taxpayers. In this sense, yes, the tax will increase as the sum of expenditures on ZUS, PIT and other insurances, so, the tax burden on a certain class of taxpayers will increase, and I say it clearly. And I think we can also use technical language in this room, especially with the former finance minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u133	Senator Zdrojewska in what mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u134	I'm in corrigendum mode. Mr. Marshal didn't drive before, you don't know Mr. Bielan interrupted my question in a relationship... [[I assure you, I've been following the deliberations from my office.]] It's a pleasure to meet you, Mr. Marshal. I just wanted to say that I didn't ask the Minister to confirm whether it was true what PAP wrote or if Senator Bierecki really said at the conference. No, I asked the Minister to refer to what I read to all those sentences. Because I had to do it quickly because that's what Marshal Bielecki wanted me to do... I'm sorry, Bielan, but I would ask the Minister to refer to what Mr Bierecki said at the conference about all these amounts, whether you agree or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u135	I assure you, senator, that question has already been asked. But you're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u136	Senator, no one requires my signature at this stage of the legislative process, which is why I am referring substantively... [[But to answer...]] In the case of recent questions, I refer to the substantive... [[Well, I'll read it again...]] ...to the content of the legislative proposal which...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u137	Minister, I'm sorry. Senator, the bill procedure has been adopted for many, many years and you cannot require the Minister to respond to amendments that have not yet been tabled. There's no such mode, there was no mode, and we're not changing anything about it. You are now asking the Minister a question about this state of knowledge as it is. Each of you can only submit amendments when the discussion begins. At the moment, you may unofficially ask if there is information on who and what amendments it is proposing, but any amendment tabled will be discussed at the committee meeting where you can ask and the person who is submitting the amendment, and the minister, and here no one is taking the floor. It's the procedure, and... well, I feel weird explaining the obvious. So please do not ask the Minister questions about amendments that are not yet tabled. Well, I'm not gonna comment on that anymore. [[Then let me ask you another question...]] No, no, it's... [[No...]] Mrs. Senator... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...I'm in session. There are senators registered, and I'm writing you down as the next person to ask questions. [[I'm sorry... okay.]] Now I'm asking you to ask Senator Flork's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u138	Mr. Marshal, Minister, or those changes we don't know yet... You said it would benefit 3.5 million taxpayers. I read about $3 million in the paper, and you just said he's gonna get 3.5 million taxpayers. I understand that this could be the sum of PLN 1, PLN 2, PLN 5 or PLN 50. That's the amount we're talking about, so my question is, are you retired with the lowest retirement rate? Do I remind you that it amounts to 1 thousand PLN? They will also gain something from these changes? And second question. You said that the cost for the budget would be about PLN 1 billion. Yes? Can you confirm that? Then my question to the Minister is: how will these budget losses be financed when it comes to local governments, their participation in PIT and CIT? Because one billion zloty is quite a loss. And we know that the counties have a share of about 10,25%. As I recall, local authorities have 37.5%. I'd like to know how the government plans to... Because I understand it has to go in parallel. If we take 1 billion, then automatically this 1 billion must be provided in some other way so that the municipal budgets can be realized. Or county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u139	Thank you very much. Senator Klich, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u140	Mr. Marshal, you have to be a very constructive opposition to discuss what has not yet been reported and what we have only read in the press or heard at the press conference. So please appreciate our position on this matter. In fact, we should only talk about this project, which the committee presented, and he assumes that the minimum amount will not be touched, that it will remain at the same level as this year. [[Amount's free.]] Sorry, it's free. It seems to me that the Minister was a little confused by the fact that it is necessary to earn over PLN 8,000 to lose on this, which means that up to the amount of PLN 8,000 you will not lose on those changes you will be proposing. I think this upper limit is 7,000 zlotys with a piece a month. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza:...7 thousand 600.]] Because if the Minister says that it is necessary to earn about PLN 8,000 300 per month, it refers to earnings of PLN 100,000 per year, while the upper limit in this proposal, which we learned from the press, is at PLN 85,000 500. If 85,000 500 PLN... [[Gross.]] [[Gross.]] ...we're going to divide it into 12, and this is going to be 7,000 gross a month with a small addition. Yeah, $85,000 500 is $7,000 a month. We operate gross amounts all the time. As I understand it, the amount free will be saved for a very large group of taxpayers, namely for those who earn from PLN 760 per month to just over PLN 7,000 per month. Well, unless I miscounted it. If so, I would ask for a correction. And that's why Senator Kleina's question is very valid. The question is, what are the social groups? In particular, in a situation where the minimum wage in Poland in 2016 amounted to PLN 2 000. [[It's gonna be from January 1st.]] From 1 January it will be PLN 2,000 per month. [[Voice from the room: Gross.]] Gross.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u141	I think the Minister has already explained that taxes don't apply to social groups, but fine. Senator Zientarski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u142	Minister, you said Of course, we are talking about this submission, which was proposed by the committee. That you analyzed it in the Ministry and considered that this proposal was exhaustive, fulfilled the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, that's what you said. I would be interested to know what arguments are being put forward or to argue for such a position in the government or in the ministry. If you'd be kind enough to exchange these arguments...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u143	Senator Dowhan, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u144	Thank you very much. In one of his replies, the Minister used the word "reform" and I was curious. Is this a slip of the tongue, or do you really want to do something other than what we're working on? 'Cause if you look at it... I hope that a lot of people are not following what is happening in this Chamber right now because we are trying to discuss one point and we are discussing amendments that are not there. And in fact, this legislative process, Minister, is probably one big failure of the ministry. Once that time, two that way of proceding, three that I don't really think everyone knows what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u145	Senator Klein, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u146	Mr Marshal, Minister, I am a little surprised by this answer that you are not in a position to say at once what the budgetary impact is, the impact on the budget of the state of this old solution, i.e. the 3,000 PLN tax-free, because it seems to be a fundamental issue. After all, you were to defend this law, which came out of committee, this law, in which there was a sum of 3,000 with a small piece. After all, what we're talking about here is a fundamental issue, because the budget is planned, it's already being worked on. etc. And making such a change, well, it causes some kind of change in the budget, that as a result of this tax there will be either more money or less. And that's pretty important. And now the question. Because it was just a brief comment on your answer. And here's the question: aren't you worried about the ministry, preparing this new proposal for a tax-free amount, that it will cause the gray zone to rise, that some taxpayers would be willing to find themselves, so to speak, in such an area as not to pay, i.e. to be the beneficiary of this tax-free amount? Or rather, we're trying to get everyone out of the grey zone as much as possible, so that everyone pays their taxes fairly. Didn't you have such a concern? And the second question is: is this solution that will be notified more favourable to taxpayers or less favourable to taxpayers? Because if it were better, then basically this haste in passing this law would not be necessary at all. Because this bill... the tax laws have to be introduced by November 31st... [[Voices from the room: Until November 30th.]] ...until 30 November only if they could have the marks of less favorable solutions... [[Worse.]] [[Make things worse.]] ...to make things worse. And if tax laws improve taxpayers' situation, they can be implemented at any time: December, even January, July, etc. Even, contrary to appearances, they can be applied backwards. So do you assume that this proposal will improve the taxpayer's situation or make it worse?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u147	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u148	Maybe I'll start over again. As I have made this very clear in reply to, for example, Senator Borowski's questions, the whole of the proposal discussed here has elements which make the taxpayer's position worse. That's why there's no way in hell that the senator said we could put it off in time and vote on... There is, of course, a second argument, which is the very substance of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which has also defined a certain time frame in which we must move. And now from the beginning. Have we looked at the impact of the change on the income of local government units? Here I have to say that, as I was informed, PIT income looks a little better, a few percentage points better than we assumed. It seems to me that there are some sealing effects also of PIT, for example as regards the circumvention clause. Some models of optimization for PIT as if they lose their attractiveness to some employees, whether it's employers, which may have a cumulative effect of some sealing... it's about sharing this income with individuals, while this change analyzed in isolation has a kind of negative unit effect. As for the question of social groups and so on... Like I said, that wasn't the starting point. I agree that maybe this should be the starting point, because as I look at the whole of our tax preferences and how we stand against other countries... We are really open to tax preferences for foreign investors, but we do not see the effect that... Countries such as England and Ireland give phenomenal tax preferences for our young people who are going there. It means that we have to start participating in, let's call it, tax attractiveness for young people who enter the labour market or start families. This is the first step on a very long road ahead of us. Therefore, I would like us to be aware that the social classes are not a starting point and in the target system they must be. If we want to quantify very precisely the situation of the less wealthy or the less profitable or even certain handicapped... The calculations show that the person receiving a social pension of PLN 840 per year will save 132 PLN. That's not enough, that's not enough, that's why we're doing this whole sealing thing. That's why VAT, PIT, clause or FIZ are being taken to find budgetary revenue that will allow for settlement... and, so to speak, improvement... The person receiving a partial incapacity pension of PLN 750 is such that, so to speak, social transfers, people live out of it. It will gain PLN 280 per year. Is that a lot? No, it's very little, but it's more than it's ever been. This is the answer to the question of who this amendment is addressed to. That's the indirect answer to that question. Another thing: what are the arguments in favour of this fulfilling the demands, the framework within which we must move with regard to the Court's ruling. Firstly, we are referring directly to the minimum existence that has been designated by the relevant authorities of the State. We refer to this amount, so the minimum existence is not taxed in this proposal we are talking about. That's the basic criterion. Secondly, we take into account the time criterion. If, as proposed by the Marshal, the Senate votes, we are able to meet the time criterion. These are two very simple, technical, trivial arguments. About the tax base of PLN 85,000... It is not that we use only the term "brutto." We use the term "tax base," and if we're talking about the amount of 85,000, we're talking about the amount of the tax base, which translates into 8,000... I'm sorry. 100 thousand PLN per year gross translates into probably 8 thousand 388 PLN gross monthly salary. As for the word "reform," I would have to go back to what I said. I wanted to reserve the word reform for this actual potential reform of the single tax. It is indeed a reform, but... I think that from the perspective of this proposal it can be considered as a mini-reform. Gray zone. There are many activities in relation to other taxes that sort of address this problem, certain... VAT electronicisation, certain activities at fiscalisation level, on line etc. These are modern instruments, which are supposed to address a little bit of another side of this gray zone. I think I've exhausted your questions at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u149	Mr. Senator... [[Self-government 1 billion and retired 1 thousand zlotys...]] The Minister answered about local governments. [[And $1,000... I don't think so.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u150	I presented 2 examples: social pensions of PLN 840 and pensions for partial incapacity for work of PLN 750. Unfortunately, I'm not equipped at this point with a precise calculation of the pension you're talking about. We'll try to figure it out in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u151	Then perhaps we should agree that the Minister will answer in writing on this particular matter. And on the matter of local governments, the Minister replied, and I will only remind the senator, and he was talking about compensation for the expected increased tax revenues. Senator Zdrojewska. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, may I ask you a question directly? And I would immediately ask, Mr. Marshal, that you allow me to finish, and then you reprimand me by referring to the relevant paragraph of the Senate's Rules of Procedure. 'Cause I think we're still here to ask questions. If the questions concern a case which is subject to investigation in the Senate, I have the right to ask such questions. There was a press conference before the Senate meeting... [[Senator, don't lecture me, just ask me a question that lasts no more than a minute on the agenda item.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, but you have not observed this minute in the case of other statements. Why should I only ask for a minute? I'll try to ask that question like this. And I will refer to what Senator Bierecki said at the conference using senate equipment, at the official Senate conference against the background of white and red flags and against the background of our eagle. However, I would like to ask the Minister to address these words. I called them back before, and you said that you listened very carefully to this conference. I'd like you to give your opinion on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u153	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u154	Senator, it seems to me that I am still referring to this proposal, because all parameters and variables presented at this conference are sort of present in this discussion. Therefore, all these thresholds, values, scales, other factors and accidents of this proposal are discussed here by me and I refer to them in all answers to questions. [[In fact, you're the one...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u155	Does the senator want to ask you another question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u156	I'm asking you specifically. Do you agree with what Senator Bierecki said or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u157	My private opinion on this is completely irrelevant, Senator. [[You share that view as a minister.]] I have expressed my opinion as Minister by indicating that the project is feasible, the project exhausts the demands set out in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and is financially acceptable after the analysis we have carried out at this stage of the discussion on this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u158	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to a question asked by your senator... Wait, I don't remember... [[Voice from the hall: Florka.]] Senator Flork's question. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Minister, please remain... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: Sure.]] ...because you'll have the right to respond to the proposal. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, Who's first? Uh-huh. Since your senator isn't here, I'd like to invite Senator Blackbay. [[I'm here.]] [[He's here.]] [[I've been watching the debate.]] [[You've been drinking tea.]] [[Yes.]] Please take the floor of Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After these long questions that are actually going to prove the Himalayas of hypocrisy acquired by the Civic Platform Club... [[Mr. Senator, how can you do that?]] [[Come on!]] You may or may not have to, Mr. Senator Klich. [[We asked you in detail to know anything.]] I am always surprised when they ask me in very detail what they already know, what they have learned, what they have already discussed and even commented on many times, and told the media. Well, if these aren't the Himalayas of hypocrisy, then we're clearly in different values. [[It's really not right, it's really not right.]] At first, I would like to make an amendment to the hands of the marshal, of whom everyone knows, which is well announced and which has already been discussed in detail. Let me say a few words about the philosophy of this amendment, and really about the philosophy of the change that this amendment brings. First, we need to remember and make it clear what we're doing here. Well, we clean up after seven years of PO-PSL rule. [[And two years of PiS rule earlier.]] We are cleaning up the government during a period in which the free amount at which the thresholds were frozen was not valued, which in turn resulted in the judgment of the Constitutional Court given in connection with the Ombudsman's request, which considered these actions during the years of the PO-PSL government as a violation of civil rights and as a repeated violation of the Constitution. The Court has given the government until 30 November this year to prepare changes in taxes that will ensure that people benefiting from social assistance do not pay taxes. I mean, it's the best help I've ever had. The first to be applied during these years of the PO-PSL governments It is important to ensure that people who reach out for social assistance do not have to pay income tax at the same time. And it was, it was. And every year for 7 years you adopted such a budget and such around budget laws, which caused poverty in Poland to be frozen, was cultivated. So we're cleaning up after all these years of your government, and we're doing it as fast as we can. And don't blame us for keeping up with us. I know it's hard that for many years you've been squandering and accepting the easiest solutions, you've frozen tax amounts, you've cut money for the poorest, you've watched the VAT hole grow, you've tolerated the waste of public money. Now there are changes. They are as fast as the financial situation of the State allows. Not all changes can happen immediately. After all, we'd like everything wrong you've done to be repaired immediately... This is what voters expect, that this memory of your evil governments will fade away, that it will be gone. That's what they expect, but we have to do this one at a time. In some sense, we feel like people renovating a house that we all live in. We need to decide which wall to renovate first, which furniture to rearrange, so that people live more comfortable and that this house is home to all of us. We end with the logic within which we had a degressive tax burden in Poland. It's been like this for years. Those who made the most paid as much as those who made the least. That's what happened. [[What's wrong with that?]] We believe, Senator, that this is wrong logic. We believe that those with more data should also give more. [[That's not true.]] That's what we think. [[What are you saying?]] Therefore, we are done with the progressive tax. [[Mr. Marshal, Luxembourg...]] This tax, this logic... [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Quiet, please.]] Logic of correlation between the value of the free amount and the level of income The fact that the amount is free will decrease in proportion to the increase in revenue It is in line with the judgment of the Constitutional Court and with the fundamental sense of justice. More is expected of those who are given more. There are four elements of the tax. Income or what it is, costs, and precisely who has the right, tax rates and so-called costs. the amount free. The components of the tax must be consistent, they must be collectible. In the proposal we are proposing, they are consistent, they are collected, they are logical and they are fair. It is not true that everyone should have the same amount free. The amount free is one of the elements of the tax, as I said earlier. Since other elements of the tax may vary, the amount free may also vary. Getting to the target solution we talked about in the election campaign that Mr President was talking about must and can be spread over time. It is dependent on other actions taken by the Government of Law and Justice to seal the tax system, to close the hole in VAT, to arrange public finances. The amendments I have tabled and which you are well aware of are the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and the fulfilment of the electoral obligations of the winning formation. I appeal to the opposition senators, who with their actions block the real discussion about the repair of the tax system, so that after getting acquainted with the Senate printing, including the amendment tabled by me, they undertake a substantive discussion about what the shape of the tax system should look like in Poland, who should pay more and why. Now I will give some examples of who will benefit from this change. That's the kind of question that's been asked here. I waited impatiently for Senator Zdrojewska to learn the Senate Rules of Procedure. Finally, I can give this information in my speech in the debate. So, for example, employees receiving a salary of PLN 1 thousand per month, that is PLN 12 thousand per year, for 2017 will gain PLN 265. It looks better for people who, for example. receive a social pension of PLN 840. They will pay income tax in 2017 lower by PLN 132. This may not be large amounts for people who have asked questions in this Chamber and have taken us a lot of time in this discussion, but these are important amounts for millions of Poles. Who's gonna win? [[Time's up.]] Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. Most taxpayers in Poland will benefit from this new model. Most taxpayers in Poland will benefit from the introduction of this new tax scale and this new recognition of the amount free. I think... [[This, Mr. Marshal, is a new project...]] [[Mr. Marshal, I didn't give you the floor.]] [[I know you didn't give it to me, but Mr. Bierecki is about to step off this platform. Maybe he can tell us what this project is all about because he didn't say.]] Mr. Marshal, I invite you to the committee's meeting... [[But you didn't say...]] Welcome to the committee's meeting. [[Why?]] The Commission will discuss in detail all the amendments tabled. [[But tell everyone...]] I also hope that from this whole discussion... [[But this isn't the stage anymore.]] ...which, in relation to the proposals of Law and Justice, or those questions that have been raised, the Senators of the Civic Platform... [[Or maybe the senator doesn't know this project either.]] ...they also use their amendments. [[He talks a lot, doesn't he?]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to make an amendment which will be the subject of further work in the Senate. The Commission will prepare a report as soon as the debate is over. I encourage you to debate as briefly as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[In corrigendum mode, Mr. Marshal. In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u160	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u161	I'm in corrigendum mode. Senator Bierecki misunderstood the questions that were here from the opposition. I'm convinced that he misunderstood, not because he wasn't in the courtroom for a while. You had bad will. We have asked questions, although we have actually been able to demonstrate the absurdity of the conversation in which we are discussing something that is out of date, and we are not discussing what will soon be tabled with the corresponding amendment. But we showed maximum goodwill to know, in short, to know. Like I said, Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna end this with protocol. You really need to be a constructive opposition to discuss something that is not formally there. Which is why I'm asking you to record this on behalf of our Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u162	Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I will start with two sentences addressed to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Mr. Senator, I would suggest, however, that we look at the definition of the word "hypocrisy" and try them on to those that fit best. Of course, during 7 years of government of the Polish People's Party and the Civic Platform, the tax-free amount was not raised. Here's a few things I can say. Namely, first year, if I remember correctly, Senator... [[8.]] Seven or eight, it doesn't matter. I can say that this can be read as a big mistake not involving tax instruments in the direction of equalising Poles' income. But I also want to say For the senator of knowledge, although I think you know that. The fact that there are also countries in Europe, namely the Netherlands and the Czech Republic, which do not have a tax-free amount, and that they have fantastically regulated the whole system of balancing the income of their nationals, because the excessive spread of income is a source of tension. And it can be said that this instrument in the form of taxes in Poland is evaluated not by Law and Justice, not by the Civic Platform, but by independent authorities of all kinds, including international ones, as well as conferences... They talk about the Polish tax system so that the Polish tax system, in terms of the amount of taxes paid, is not progressive This is what Senator Bierecki said here, but they also say that the Polish tax system is one of the most complicated tax systems in Europe. And what you are proposing here is another confusion of this system. Now I'm gonna go back to the process. Well, Mr. Senator, you shouldn't even know what you're talking about. I'm addressing Senator Bierecki. What kind of hypocrisy are we talking about here? Isn't it hypocritical what's going on in the Polish Senate today? We're discussing something that isn't there. The Polish Government does not make proposals, and Members are not present during the debate, because we know what it is like. Well, at the committee meeting we kept asking the question: why doesn't the Polish government submit draft laws, and especially the draft law, which concerns 25 million Poles? And the Minister replied... I wrote it down because I want to quote it. The Minister, at the committee meeting, said: "We are very much in favour of Members to put forward a good project. So the role of the Polish government boils down, ladies and gentlemen, to cheering and cheering for Polish parliamentarians. And, Senator, this is hypocrisy. You as fans submit an application, and we, without knowing when, how and what, two days before the deadline for decency to submit... And I asked the Senator rapporteur about that. Well, when he presented this report, he said what he said, I will no longer comment on it. But during the debate, the representatives of the organisations that participated spoke with a common voice, Senator Bierecki, chairman of this committee. They did not speak with the voice of the Civic Platform, they spoke with the voice of 25 million taxpayers. Don't do the renovation. I'll use your comparison. In a messy way. It's what amateurs do when they don't know how to build, how to build a house. You build a house for 25 million Poles, and every now and then Senator Jackowski goes out and gives an interview, how it will work at all. Well, he asked if the marriages were gonna be together or not. He left and gave an interview: yes, I'd like to tell you... The editor asked again, and the senator said, "I'm sorry, I'll go ask... Is this the way to create tax law in Poland for 25 million people? It's not hypocrisy, okay. Therefore, I would like to say once again, back to your good tone. You remember that blue file. Where's the briefcase? There were four or three most important laws on which the Prime Minister and the President said, "Don't believe these crooks." And here were the different names of the party. In Poland you can enter in 100 days... And here it's mentioned what... And in the first place, Mr. Senator, the tax-free amount is listed. Is that... what is that? Wrong number? What about hypocrisy? Well, I think it's worth taking a look at the dictionary on the meaning of Polish words and then you'll tell us what hypocrisy is. Just like you say about reaching out to the richest... Well, who would like to, but, Mr. Senator, if someone in the framework of optimization of actions brings Polish capital abroad and comes out to the Polish pulpit and talks about hypocrisy in the previous period... Well, that's a little hypocritical, Mr. Senator. Therefore, I would like us not to offend each other. We only say this: introduce these instruments, but in a way that is worthy of the Polish Senate, in turn, in mode and time, with the opinions of the people concerned. After all, these organisations have made some customs comments. And during the debate, ladies and gentlemen, it was pointed out that this proposal, which is considered, I am not talking about this new proposal, is incompatible with the constitution. And what have you voted out as Senators of Law and Justice, what have you voted out at the committee meeting? Well, it's against the constitution. This is the mechanism that Senator Borowski was talking about. Is this hypocrisy or a mistake? I'm asking you senator and state as people of power. If we're talking about what's going on right now, That's what Senator Komarnicki asked so well. The stability of the law... What I'm trying to say is that you two can tell each other stories about this sustainable development. This kind of action... Since 2004, 200 thousand individual interpretations have been issued, Poles have interpreted the state authorities so that the law will be interpreted. What are you doing? One night you cross it off and say, "Nothing's wrong." Is this an example of good action, Senator, or is this hypocrisy? If at a committee meeting the representatives of the institutions, I think the Senator of Leviathan Kleina's gonna make me feel better. They are talking about the explicit interpretation of loans, interest and tax payments in the draft law, unambiguously, they do not want either a reduction or an increase, they want clear rules... What will you vote on? This law, which is inconclusive, which the Minister spoke of at the committee meeting: listen, dears, do not be nervous, I will issue an interpretation, I will tell you how to interpret it. To the new law, the Minister will issue an interpretation, will he tell you how to interpret it? I think that this kind of action can be pulled up against hypocrisy, Mr. Senator. To conclude, I want to talk about what science says about the tax-free amount. Why does she even need to be moved in? The tax-free amount is introduced in order to avoid the payment of the tax by persons who, either for one year or for six months or for one month, have not achieved income, regardless of how much income they achieve at the end That's the essence. In addition, the system simplifies. Everyone has this tax-free amount. At the same time, authors say that differentiation of this amount is a blackout of the system. So, how should we pursue what Senator Bierecki was talking about? By making a difference in that amount? Maybe still addicted to their origins? I don't know what else. The tax-free amount is generally equal to or not at all for all. And as for the size of taxes, The aim is to make wealthier people pay more of these taxes. Therefore, on behalf of Senator Kleina and my own amendments. The first is so that you can go out with your face, without hypocrisy, and implement the postulate from the election campaign in terms of the tax-free amount of PLN 8,000. The second amendment aims to explicitly interpret tax legislation in the proposed law. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u164	Please take the floor of Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, am signing off on those amendments which my colleague had just tabled, giving you, as regards one of the many things that you promised. Speaking of all this, I would like to say that I am pleased that the word "tribal" has been mentioned several times here in the courtroom. Finally, after a year of fighting the Court, the Government of Law and Justice acknowledges that the Court respects and respects the fact that the Court has challenged, on behalf of Poles, including the poorest, the right to this... The point is to make this relief bigger. I know that for seven years, or maybe eight or six years, this amount hasn't actually increased and it's probably not something to be proud of. This is something that has come to mind, and it is not the time to debate today. But it is certain that this amount was also one of the reasons for winning the entire election campaign, based on every emphasis by President Andrzej Duda on the fact that immediately, although this word is interpreted differently, for example with regard to the publication of judgments of the Court It shall immediately, within a few months, introduce a tax-free amount of PLN 8 000. That's what the Prime Minister said. She said that in 100 days a lot of what the previous government didn't do could be done, and she also promised to introduce this amount. As we know, to this day And it's been almost a year or more. It wasn't possible to do that. And from today's debate, Minister... Well, really, today you came in so broad a lineup that I'm very happy about it. Only it does not really appear from this debate that you will sign this project or develop it. Everything fell into the hands of Members who, without a full legislative process, taking such a fast path, once again serve us some fun, and it is really something that we do not know exactly what we are discussing. Because, on the one hand, we are discussing what was presented in the documents and what we were able to learn, and on the other hand, we are learning that this discussion is really not leading to anything, because there will be a complex amendment. Which, of course, we haven't been informed... [[We invite you to the committee's meeting.]] ...and if anyone wants to be informed, they have an invitation to the committee meeting. Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, for letting us participate, we know that. But isn't it a waste of time? Wouldn't it be better to bring this amendment to the table right away and discuss it instead of discussing it here for more than three hours when it really comes down to this amendment? Later we will have limited opportunities for discussion, to speak about it, because later In addition to the committee meeting, there will only be a vote, Mr Marshal, as far as I know, and not another substantive discussion of what this amendment is proposing. I also don't like the point of saying that once again it is trying to suggest that those who earn more are obliged to pay more. Whoever makes more, and yes, Mr. Senator, pays more. It's from simple math. [[But in Poland he paid less.]] That's not true, because if someone makes more money, then when they multiply it, it gives more money. And how someone makes more money God forbid everyone makes that kind of money. It's probably more working, maybe he's more lucky, maybe he's putting more emphasis on it, maybe he's got less time for his family or for a vacation, or maybe he's done it in his favor... You can't share people today, tell people who make a little more money, we'll be As it rains here from the speaker's mouth, reach into the pocket. I think it's very unfair. Everyone should be treated with equal measure, no matter how much money he earns. This should also include a tax-free amount. So far this amount has been in this amount, not another amount, but it was equal to everyone. And if this amendment were to limit these amounts, I think that would be very unfair. Because I don't want to repeat... I think this discussion today made it clear what the procedure is and what is going on here, and my colleague has already said a lot here... But I would add that if business were to act as today's legislation works, like what is happening here, in comparison with what the government and the ministry have been called to do, which, you can say, is rooting for what is being made up of Members, and not just this ministry... And yet such important projects should come out of the ministry, because you have tools, conversions, etc. Above all, if you can't do it properly, notice that we also have good models in the European Union, which we can model on. It is okay to draw good patterns from neighbouring countries or from other countries that are in the European Union and choose the best option for us. I mean, that's the way it's gonna be. [[Well, President Juncker...]] I will refer to the earlier statement: if people in business were to work as we are working here today, in this Chamber, this business would have really fallen a long time ago. Yeah, he'd have fallen a long time ago. Well, no one can afford to have a clear, clean relationship. No matter what level you're on. To sign a contract, knowing that something that is not in the contract is about to be inserted into the contract. Well, that's unbelievable. Finally, I would like to say that once again you are weakening the state and investors, and a sense of trust in business in Poland, precisely because of how you are implementing this law at the moment. On the one hand, Prime Minister Morawiecki drives and encourages investors, introducing new plans And he's great at it: slides, speeches, charts On the other hand, GDP was to be reflected, and today we know that GDP is getting lower. Forecasts for Poland are also lowered and I think that this is the point of everything, among others. It's happening in this room today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u166	Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was supposed to be a significant tax reduction, which would increase the amount of free money to 8,000. What's wrong? Well, there's something that balances out at the level that these taxes are at right now, so at best, this amount isn't gonna change. But I suspect we'll lose on these shifts after all. Well, not us personally, but on average we're all gonna lose. You don't make changes like that so you don't get extra money, and the budget needs that extra money. You can see from the proposal that came to us that you need money for the expenses you've already incurred. And I'm sure it will continue, but I don't want to concentrate on it. I would like to say that I have already witnessed many situations in Senate IX of the term, but in such a situation I have not yet participated. There is a presentation that came from the Sejm, is reporting to the Senator of the rapporteur, and a discussion is about some change that journalists know about, but about which the senators are not informed. We are to discuss and work on what is presented to us in writing. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliaments were created precisely because executives wanted to impose taxes. The executive authority made proposals and the General States "Whether they are chosen or indicated by the monarch" They discussed it and either accepted it or didn't. What's the situation right now? Well, the MPs report... It's not the government that's filing the tax bill. And we're also starting to discuss some fundamental change that we don't know. Senator Bierecki is reporting it, and I just don't know why it wasn't reported to the finance committee meeting, where it could normally be handled. What's the situation right now? There is an amendment tabled which changes at all the proposal that we have discussed or that we have had today, which has entered the Senate. And we will no longer discuss this fundamental change at the Senate meeting. It will only be possible to discuss at a committee meeting. It is therefore not possible to discuss in plenary when applying this procedure. The Senator rapporteur is prevented from asking questions about this, and the Minister is prevented from asking questions about it. This is a violation of the rules, this is a serious violation of the rules. This way you can make throws in any situation. For the first time, something like this happened in the Senate. This prevents you from discussing this in plenary. It's a fracture... It's just... [[But there are amendments in the debate, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but you're crossing the line...]] Temporary? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Why do I go? [[The submission of amendments during the Senate debate is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure.]] But not like this! Because... [[I'd like to protest it.]] I understand, but I understand that you're having a discussion with me. [[What kind of discussion? Who's in charge?]] You're getting into some kind of discussion with me. I think it's a violation of the rules. Simply by entering the side entrance, it is impossible to discuss the amendment of the bill. And that's how I feel about it. You can't do that. Why was this fundamental amendment, amending this law, not tabled at the committee meeting? After all, it could have been done and then we would have discussed the essential content of this law. And that's how we discussed something that's a bang and that's not gonna happen anymore. Even though it's still there at the moment 'Cause there's an amendment. [[Then why did you discuss it?]] I find this absolutely unacceptable. That's not acceptable. This mode should not be used. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u168	I don't know why you're applauding, but I'd like to explain one thing, and that goes for... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. This refers to the statements of Senator Dowhan, Senator Czarnobaj and Marshal Borusewicz. There is no mode and obligation to report on amendments, and I have never met the situation for eight years of being in opposition, so that you will inform us of the amendments you intend to make during the Senate debate. I don't remember anything like that. So Senator Bierecki had no obligation to tell you what amendment he was going to make. The allegation that the bill is filed by Members... Well, I don't know how to react to that at all. Because what does three divisions of power mean, and who should write laws? Is the allegation that the bill is coming from Members of Parliament a serious charge? Well, I beg for the seriousness of the Senate, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome... [[Applause]] [[Can I now submit questions to Senator Bierecki?]] No, at the committee meeting. [[And now?]] Mr. Marshal, many times the amendments have been... [[I can't, right? Well, I can't.]] Yes. But let's tell two things. You're right, Senator, that there's no discussion in this mode, but I object to saying that this is a violation of the rules of procedure. Because many times hundreds or thousands of amendments were tabled during the Senate debate. This isn't a violation of the rules. I strongly protest against this statement. Let's get back to the discussion. Who's next? [[Senator Jackowski.]] Senator Jackowski, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I listen to the debate that's going on here, and I wipe my eyes out of wonder, because what the Civic Platform says is basically covering with smoke what's been going on for eight years of the Civic Platform's rule. Firstly, the tax-free amount was frozen. Secondly, there was absolutely no He prefers to talk about it and discuss it, although we have tried to raise it. If it weren't for the actions of Professor Teresa Lipowicz... I remember perfectly well that when, as the Ombudsman, she applied to the Constitutional Tribunal to ask whether the amount frozen in the amount of PLN 3 000 91 was in accordance with the Constitution, there was an angry attack on Prof. Lipowicz, as such a question could be asked to the Constitutional Court. Today we hear that the Platform will simply give away the Netherlands, give away to the right and to the left like Mr. Zagłoba... 8,000... Why not 25 grand? Apparently, Burkina Faso has a free amount of 25 grand. Well, maybe... [[You guys said 8,000...]] $25,000? I am surprised that the Platform is so cheap at giving away money that is not in the budget, which she should know very well if it is a serious opposition. You have to behave responsibly, not make fun of yourself. The same thing happened with 500+. A fatal solution, irresponsibleness, destruction of the budget, destruction of public finances That was the voice in the discussion. And then? In the course of the parliamentary debate, the amendment, please, for all children... The platform simply does not know how to behave in opposition itself, and what we are hearing from the prominent Senators of the Civic Platform about violations of regulations, violations of law, etc., is the best way in which this debate on a serious matter takes place in the Senate. I would like to point out that nothing in this House is against the law or the rules. Of course, everyone can have their opinion, but don't make false accusations and false conclusions. I would like to say that the subject of the amendment is to increase the tax reduction amount specified in the tax scale, except that this amount will not be the same for all, and that it will not apply to taxpayers whose annual income exceeds the amount of PLN 127 000. The author of the amendment proposed that the free amount should be PLN 6 000 600. Let me remind you that this is currently PLN 3 000 89. This amount corresponds to 12 times the minimum of existence announced by the Institute of Labour and Social Affairs. This means that persons whose annual income, the basis for calculating the tax, does not exceed PLN 6 000 600 will not pay tax at all, because the tax calculated at the rate of 18 percent will be subject to an amount reducing the tax of PLN 1 thousand 188. Taxpayers receiving annual income, the basis for the calculation of the tax, in excess of PLN 6 000 600 and not exceeding PLN 11 000 will be able to deduct a degressive amount of tax falling between PLN 1 thousand 188 and PLN 556 2 gr. Taxpayers earning annual income, the basis for the tax calculation, exceeding PLN 11 000 and not exceeding PLN 85 000 528 will benefit from the current tax reduction amount of PLN 556 2. In this respect, for 18 million taxpayers There seems to be so many, let's call it, with these parameters. Nothing's gonna change. Taxpayers receiving annual income, the basis for tax deduction, in excess of PLN 85 000 528 and not exceeding PLN 127 000 will benefit from a progressive amount reducing the tax from PLN 556 2 to PLN 0. On the other hand, the tax reduction amount will not be used by taxpayers with annual income exceeding PLN 127 000. These rules on the fixing of the tax reduction amount will apply only to annual income The basis for the calculation of the tax. In the case of tax advances, the authors of the amendment accepted the principle that the tax reduction amount amounts to PLN 556 and PLN 2 per year, which corresponds to the tax-free amount of PLN 3 000 89, and is taken into account only for revenue not exceeding PLN 85 000 from the beginning of the year. The tax reduction amount will be subject to annual verification by the Minister responsible for public finances. The Minister responsible for public finances shall submit to the Council of Ministers by 15 September of the year in which the verification was carried out, information on the results of the verification carried out and a proposal to amend the tax reduction amount for the following year in the event of a significant increase in the minimum of existence for a single-member holding as established by the Institute of Labour and Social Affairs. The Constitutional Tribunal, in its operative part, stated that I quote to the extent that Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 does not provide for a mechanism to correct the tax reduction amount guaranteeing at least the minimum existence is incompatible with Article. Article 2 and Article 2 84 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In addition, it stated that other legislative measures could be taken to shape the tax system, which could take into account the proper distribution of tax burdens, including the requirement to individualise tax capacity. High Izbo, in view of the current state of public finances, this proposal seems to be a good, rational, thought-out and opening way in the future to further change the rules of clearing the so-called. the amount of tax-free. I trust that we will continue to work on this in this term of office and that the real yield will be more visible to a larger group of citizens. Let me remind you that about 3 million taxpayers will benefit from this solution. If the fate of 3 million taxpayers is indifferent to anyone, it questions their qualifications for public service. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u170	Please take the floor of Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You promised in the campaign... The Prime Minister promised that the amount free would be PLN 8,000. You won the election and you cheated... As you can see, you want to keep cheating. There was talk of 100 days, there was talk of putting it right away, and right now I hear you have to put it together for years. That wasn't in... so, ladies and gentlemen, you cheated. [[Eight years from now.]] You're proud of the good VAT receipts, you're saying it's better that there's a billion more. There is no economic crisis like it was in 2009 or 2013, so what prevents it from introducing a higher amount of free money? Is that what you're... [[It's 500+.]] Oh, okay. [[For the taxpayer's money.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can't count. [[Quiet, please.]] You can't count, then. You're probably complicating the tax system. Probably, because I don't know what he's supposed to look like, I don't know what I'm discussing yet. Are you talking about 500+? Okay, as far as 500+ is concerned, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth children... Even if someone makes 100,000 zlotys, they still get 500 zlotys for the second, third, fourth and fifth children, which means at least a few hundred zlotys. Do you know what the relief will be? From 1 PLN to 52 PLN per month. And that guy has 500 zlotys every month. Is that fair? And the first child? In some cases it turns out that e.g. A single mother doesn't get it either. So you complicate the whole system. Ladies and gentlemen, you want to give 500 zlotys for the readiness of 55,000 soldiers, you want to give away more money. After all, I asked whether a pensioner, who has 1 thousand zlotys of pension, would benefit from it. Well, it won't, because this is the amount of approx. 900 PLN. You do not want to increase the relief for 23 million citizens, which is in fact you want to take away from us because we should increase this relief. You're saying there's been nothing done for eight years. I gave examples of what was the situation back then. Today you have a comfortable situation and a good budget left by your predecessors, so that you can boldly increase this amount. How much do you want to increase it? From PLN 3 000 89 to PLN 6 000 600. This difference is PLN 631, i.e. monthly, as I said, PLN 52, and it is up to PLN 52 if someone achieves the right income. 'Cause it could also be a zloty, it could be 2 zlotys. You were talking about 3 million people. Well, maybe it'll be $3.5 million, like the Minister said. It might be, but it could be that kind of money. This maximum amount applies, of course, to the appropriate income. And now the question is whether this amount free at the minimum level of existence should be for everyone as it has been so far. You know this table: there are two items. When you fill out your PIT, you know what it looks like. After all, it is possible to maneuver tax levels and tax thresholds. There is the first threshold at the level of 85 thousand PLN, but you might as well lower this first threshold to 20 thousand PLN and reduce tax e.g. 10% so that the retirees pay less. You could do it, you could analyze it, only there was no time for such analyzing. I'll be right back, because I'll also be making an adjustment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister said that about PLN 1 billion would amount to the lost part of the income of the municipal and district authorities. The Minister stated that, in view of the fact that PITs have a higher income, there is no need to compensate for this. Well, if that's the way we deal with it, we can keep these local governments up to speed, and they'll never get more money, they'll just be limited. But where's the line here? You'd have to count it all. Remind me: 37.5% Local authorities, 10,25% The county authorities. That's their share of PIT. What would be the financial impact? I don't know what we're talking about here because I don't know what's in these amendments that have been tabled, and we can't discuss it anymore, because then, after the committee meeting, we'll just vote. And I don't know what I'm voting on. Ladies and gentlemen, 52 zlotys can gain that much. Bottom line is, you guys are great in sociotechnic. The question was: how many loaves of bread can you buy for 50 zlotys? And I'm asking you how much more you have to spend on butter and how much on meat for this bread. This is a beautiful statement: you can gain a maximum of 52 PLN. How much should taxpayers get? Or just 52 zlotys? And those who earn 6,000 zlotys a year or have a pension of 1 thousand zlotys a month? You clearly answer, they won't get any more. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm making an amendment. This is an amendment that has already been tabled by colleagues from the Civic Platform. Your colleagues wanted you to keep your promise and write in the amount of PLN 8,000. I suggest to you, then, that because it's a social minimum, the minimum amount you're talking about. And I read it in the paper, somewhere in the debate today, and I don't know if that's for sure that it's going to be 6,000 600 PLN... Then I suggest that it's not the 8,000 PLN you promised... Break your vows that you will give everyone $8,000. I propose 6,000 600 PLN... [[Everything, right?]] ...the one you're talking about. And such an amendment, in those two positions that... It's easy to calculate: the amount free times 18% And out comes the $1,000 188, which I believe Senator Bierecki has already mentioned here. PLN 1 thousand 188. And the same thing in the second group. It has to be calculated. Simple, transparent, there's no doubt about it. And if you want to change something, you can change it very simply here. You can add an additional position, you can change percentages, you can relieve pensioners, so that there is not 18%, and 10% To make those who don't make much money... You can do it. So that in order to help you with what you have made so that you do not have to keep your promises, I propose an amount of PLN 6 000 600. I make such an amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u172	Senator Rulewski, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I speak in substance, I'd like to... [[Not really.]] ...to answer the question that everyone here is interested in, which is going to... The question is about such a race concerning the authors of the project. Well, you can certainly assume that Senator Bierecki is more than 25 members of the PiS. But... you are smiling, but, sir, you are far from another Member, which is the sum of 232 Members and 63 Senators. And his name is, I can't tell you how, you're the default. I didn't violate the rules, did I? But just because something is a multiple doesn't mean it's a good thing. Your amendment is not good, Senator, times 15 Members. Your amendment is to invent a new lottery. You throw some numbers, you don't justify... And I've been listening to what you've said. I'm sure you said you'd take the rich. It's a wealth, even with regard to some of us here... You know, 130,000 is poverty. Isn't that right, Senator? [[Joy in the Chamber]] This is total poverty. I have more money in my account and I don't feel rich at all. I just have a problem with how to spend it. I think the others are, too. But maybe I can find a solution. That's why... I'll get back to the subject. It is true that the Ombudsman's request, supported by the PiS, was accepted by this terrible Constitutional Tribunal, which was then acting under the dictation of the Civic Platform. So, as it turns out, he acted against the Civic Platform, conspired with the PiS and the Ombudsman. And decreed what he had decreed. According to the truth, it would seem. But there's another truth. Even though they say there's only one truth At that time, at the time of the government of the Polish Republic, income grew. I can't say that evenly, it's always... But they grew. There was also a growing sale. Every year, sales grew. So people had money, they had something to buy. Even in tax matters, there was a rise in income... Because, as I recall, Prime Minister Kopacz has passed negative taxes on families with children. So whoever didn't have the tax weight got an extra bonus from the state. So taxes have increased. Well, maybe not the way PiS does it now, but they did grow. Which, as I say, does not please me at all. But the truth is, life's rate was rising despite the crisis. Nevertheless, this is a generalization that I would not like to sign. Not everyone's income was growing. Who didn't grow income at the time? Unemployed. Unemployment benefits have been valued, i.e. not much or very little in the last few years. Social benefits didn't grow. Income didn't grow for all those who didn't have a job and worked sideways or strawberry. They didn't grow into students who made money. Their taxes didn't grow. But that is not the concern of Senator Bierecki times 15 Members. This is my concern, and that is why I allow myself to present an amendment here. There's a threshold about which Mrs. Kicker... I don't know if she was counting. The Minister says there are mathematical combinations that can't be skipped. Yes, Minister. If we introduce some thresholds, and you introduce further thresholds that cause someone suddenly loses 6,000 zlotys... you deny it. I say you can create another threshold. The threshold, which has a substantive justification and which will cause Poland not to be a disgrace to Europe. In Europe, especially in OECD countries, it is unacceptable to tax someone who does not have income. And you are doing this as part of your solutions with the support of Senator Bierecki times 15 Members. You're doing it. You forget people, explaining the need to invent new math. You don't have to think of anything here. This is life, not math. If you're going to do all this math, I'm afraid your career won't take long. If a person doesn't reach the minimum social minimum in the West, and we have the minimum intervention... which is the threshold of social assistance, then we shouldn't use math and everything, but what politicians use. Indeed, the Prime Minister has promised and has not fulfilled this condition. This 8,000 800 zlotys is the threshold that the achievement of which allows people to live today. You're gonna say, "The others are gonna get less jumping." But they can survive. And that's the division. I suggest we put in an extra threshold. It's not written down, because I don't think the Senate's rules would allow it. 7 000 824 zł. Why? Because that's what a unemployed man gets for six months today. He's better off with the guy who gets social insurance or permanent benefits because he gets paid all year round. Mr. Senator, you forgot about the people who made up your... These people were and will be kicked out of work and will gain nothing or gain little. They don't have much now, and there's nothing to count them off. Even that threshold that you're raising your amendment, Senator... It won't do them any good. They're still gonna... And there's another aspect here. I'm talking about the benefits now, the people who get 100%. Tax-deductible allowance. Technically speaking, what the Minister should particularly make clear to us... The tax is from 2 PLN to 12 PLN, 15 PLN. The Minister says we need to set boundaries somewhere. Fiskus found that if the tax refund is less than 10 zlotys, it is not returned and if the taxpayer does not pay 3 zlotys, then it is a proceeding and pays it back with interest. So there are technical possibilities to accept, for example... If this solution does not please the Minister, then there is another solution. We can say that if someone's tax liability is 20 PLN, 25 PLN, then damn it, let this person no longer pay and do not bother the tax authorities, also in connection with the need for verification. And we're going back to Europe. Europe assumed that people who... By definition, Minister, income tax is a tax on income, not on the fact that you have some money, especially the small ones. If there is no income, then there is no tax, if there is a large income, then of course there is a proportional or corresponding tax. Therefore, in conclusion, Senator Bierecki times 15 Members, I urge you to take this version of yourself. I will not be offended by the development of this solution, which creates a threshold for poverty. May this poverty for PiS disappear, not grow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Jasia, the actors are missing from the theater.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u174	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. Come on in. The senator has five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna cut it short. First of all, I would like to address your marshal, respectful of the office, and the person of your marshal, and say, Mr. Marshal, that I do not recall saying that there is something wrong with the rules here, but if I said... [[Marshal Borusewicz said that.]] But you mentioned my name. And you, Marshal Borusewicz, maybe that's all. He's a great man, he can do anything. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And what I'm trying to say, Mr. Marshal, is that I didn't use those words. I just want to say one more time... [[I admit it.]] I want to say what outrageds me as a senator who is here for the second term. We create law for 25 million taxpayers in Poland on their knees, without opinions of various kinds of institutions. All the arguments that Senator Florek and Senator Rulewski put forward... I suggest you consider these matters. This is not how the law is made, as our beloved Senator Jan Maria Jackowski said, even in Burkina Faso, it is not even the way the law is created there. And why are there 24 and 8 of us? Because there's no PiS. The PiS offered $8,000, not $24,000. If you proposed in campaign 24, I would also be in favour of you fulfilling this electoral request, thanks to which, among other things. I'm sure you've got that kind of support. I will go back to what you didn't talk about, Senator rapporteur, but these are two important elements. The representatives of the organization, namely the Polish Trade and Distribution Organisation, the Confederation of Leviathan and probably one whose name I have not noted here, raised several important elements, but 2 are particularly important; of course, except that this is not how the law is created in Poland, that in the twelfth we are looking at how to start the train and the train is already on its way. Therefore, I raise again, Mr. Marshal, that you cannot, should not... I would ask the Senators of Law and Justice: do not create this law for Poles. They said the same thing. As far as Senator Rulewski is concerned, the proposal, which should also be considered, was the following: people whose income is lower than PLN 6.5 thousand do not pay taxes at all. Why? Once again, the tax threshold is introduced for those purposes which I have mentioned, but it is introduced at the same level, Minister, so that for those 3 million taxpayers with very low income do not activate a whole number of officials who will verify the accounts and grant the taxpayers after a year of work 25 PLN, say: yes, you will get 25 PLN of tax refund from us. Nobody does that, believe it. Nobody does that, not even the poorest, not to mention the richest. The poorest do not pay, the tax threshold is the same for all, and tax rates are introduced progressive taxes: you earn more, you pay more. No one introduces an even more complicated system. What else did the representatives of these organisations raise during the debate? Once again, I'm going back to the individual interpretation clause. This clause The procedure was introduced again at second reading in the Sejm, please. Therefore, the procedure for such comments was not exhausted in accordance with the Court's rulings. This could be a separate initiative, and the initiative to abolish these individual interpretations was introduced at second reading, i.e. there was no whole reading. But you know, I don't think the Court's gonna rule against the constitution of this fantastic bill you're proposing. However, you must be aware that this law does not solve anything, complicates the system, gives nothing to the poorest people, gives nothing except that you can say to yourself: yes, we try and add to these poor people with the lowest income of 25 PLN. And like Janek Rulewski said, it's also money and it's worth it. But in a simpler system. Therefore, I would like to say once again that this type of procedure, Mr. Marshal, is in accordance with the regulations, but I would ask that... Not always what is in accordance with the regulations, Mr. Marshal, is good for Poland, is logical, has anything to do with the creation of law and has anything to do with the good that should be created when creating the law for citizens in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to say, as a correction, that in my statement, I absolutely did not compare the procedure for working on this law with the procedure for working in the State of Burkina. Faso. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we have been dealing with a phenomenon: hit the table and the scissors will respond. Because it is true that in some African countries, I stress: in some African countries The standards used in Poland are those which were learned by the tapes of truth from the times of the Civic Platform, which show how it ruled the country. Thank you. [[It's not right! It's not right!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u178	Senator Bierecki. [[Mr. Senator, your intelligence is always reliable.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because right now, I'm sorry... For discussion? [[No, I thought Senator Jackowski had already exhausted...]] [[No, no, 'cause I'm still...]] Now he's enrolled in the discussion, Senator Frost. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I listen to this debate and it's been awful sometimes, it's been funny, but sometimes it's been unpleasant. This amendment by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, in which, as the marshal rightly said, everything was done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... [[The Senate.]] Yes, the Senate. Anyway, in the Seym, the same thing that this bill was filed... She's pursuing three goals. First, he executes the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. In the original version of this bill that came from the Sejm... When we examined it in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, it was not anyone else, it was the Senators of the Civic Platform who claimed that the rewrite of the standards challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal in another provision, the provision for 2017, was a clear violation of the law. In this amendment by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, the comments you made, although we did not fully agree with their justification in everything, we took them into account. That's one thing. [[It was at our request.]] So in general, ladies and gentlemen, you should be happy, because if you want the judgments of the Constitutional Court to be... [[Yes, we do. Yes.]] [[Applause]] ...implemented, this amendment fulfils the marks of the amendment implementing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Since you clap like that, I will say that the Law and Justice were, is and will be in favour of compliance with the judgments of the Court, but also the Constitutional Tribunal must act in accordance with the laws in force. [[Bravo!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] That's the first thing... [[The senator is perfect.]] ...we're executing a ruling from the Constitutional Court. Second line. This law implements an element of social justice. If I'm not mistaken, Senator Dowhan said that people with high income have to pay less taxes... [[Voices from the room: No, no...]] [[There's nothing to be nervous about...]] ...they have to pay more taxes, and those who have less income have to pay less taxes to make these scissors less to reduce social injustice. And that's what the tax system does. I agree that this can be introduced through tax thresholds, through different tax rates or through a tax-free amount, which is also a form of another threshold. And today, when we introduce a progressive rate of tax-free amount, we increase social justice, because people who have very high income will not have a tax-free amount and will pay a little more tax, but 3 million Poles will pay less tax. And this differs Law and Justice from the Civic Platform, because we care about people with lower incomes than those taxpayers, than those citizens who have very high incomes and who manage. And we are talking about those 3 million Poles who have very low incomes, who often fail in the labour market. We're gonna reduce their tax burden today. And the third point that Senator Grzegorz Bierecki's amendment responds to is the fulfilment of our electoral promise. In fact, we were talking about the amount of PLN 8,000. But, ladies and gentlemen, there's a 500+ program, there's an increase in the hourly rate, there's an increase in the minimum wage, there's an increase in the lowest pension... We have to do all this gradually, the implementation of our program we have scheduled for 4 years and certainly... [[Not on 4...]] Senator Florek, we've got it scheduled for four years. And we begin to implement our program every day. And that also differs Law and Justice from the Civic Platform, because we are trying to achieve all our points from our program gradually and we will be accounted for for for for for 4 years. Two more last remarks. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the Minister said that the amendment by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki would result in a loss in the state budget estimated at nearly PLN 1 billion. This means that the global burden on taxpayers in Poland will decrease by PLN 1 billion. That's first of all. [[Oh, no.]] And my second point, a case I'd like to say. Law and Justice and Senator Grzegorz Bierecki you have accused: how scandalously the Law and Justice are proceding by making amendments! Marshal Borusewicz, outraged, said: it is not done! Ladies and gentlemen, you did the same at this meeting, at this point, by submitting numerous amendments to this point. One of the senators reported $8,000, the other one from the senators, Senator Florek, reported $6,000 600. And you didn't report it either. You didn't inform us, you didn't inform the Poles, and you reported it as you did with Senator Grzegorz Bierecki's proposal. And one last remark. Ladies and gentlemen, it was funny here, it was awful, but it was also unpleasant at some point. I think some unfair attacks against Senator Grzegorz Bierecki... [[The senator was very gentle in his speech...]] ...they were just out of place, just like some of those wrestling... those ridiculous terms... Each of the Senators of Law and Justice, as well as each of the Senators of the Civic Platform, has the right to submit their amendment. And the senator tabled his amendment, an amendment favourable to 3 million Polish taxpayers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u180	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. My wife says I do look like two senators sometimes. It's true. I've been trying very hard lately to get to the size of one average senator... [[Unaverage.]] Senator Rulewski is measuring me in a great measure, he's counting me in fifteen... [[...publishers.]] ...but it's a really bad joke, Mr. Senator. This is a bad joke. I think you should, however, try to maintain the position of conscience of the Civic Platform, the only righteous man in this group... [[Mr. Senator, well, really...]] [[Do you hear that?]] That's your name, isn't it? So if you really want to look like that, then remember where you've been. As a conscience of the Civic Platform for the last eight years, when you didn't raise that amount of free money, you just really freeze it. [[Not where you are.]] I didn't hear you count those sizes there, and how many Members, Senators and so on. [[Janek was in SKOK at the time.]] You were just silent then, Mr. Senator, you didn't protest then, and if you were protesting, then, apparently, very unsuccessfully. I think your colleagues wanted to follow you as much as they did now. But to make a substantive statement... The most important question is: And so I understood the amendments that the Platform senators are making, because I don't think it's some kind of bidding, who's going to give a higher price, it's not an attempt at some childish one at the moment of overbiding: and we, ma'am, are going to give more... I don't think that's the point, because... So if you take seriously what you're saying, you really need to think about building this amount of free money. What she's up to is the Constitutional Court said It is intended to provide a minimum existential. A person who is also a recipient of social assistance cannot be taxed. It's simple, isn't it? Is this free amount supposed to be equal to everyone? In the same judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal stated that the tax burden should be spread according to the tax capacity of taxpayers. In my speech, I was talking about four components of the tax, income, cost, scale, amount free. The amount free is just an element. As a result of its application, like the other elements, the tax burden arises. So this tax burden cannot be the same for all taxpayers. They are to be distributed according to the Court's ruling according to the tax capacity. That is the Court's ruling. That is the judgment of the Court that we are fulfilling. And I hope that my amendments are now fulfilling the intentions of this judgment of the Court. Thanks to this change, we are not only facing a few million taxpayers who will pay less tax, a few hundred thousand, probably about 200 thousand, will pay a little more. But we're talking about quotas. If I remember correctly, Minister, if you do, please correct me for a group of people who have 127 000 tax bases. This is the annual salary corresponding to more than 146 thousand. And it's going to be about 500 zlotys a year more tax. 500 PLN per year more tax for people who earn 146 thousand PLN per year. That's what we're talking about. And I appeal, Senator Rulewski, for honesty in this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Mr. Senator Bierecki! I wasn't authorized by Senator Rulewski to answer you, but I think... I'm sure he was aware of the importance of your amendment. This was an amendment that may have been tabled by a dozen Members. This is a very important amendment and I would like to emphasise that. And the fact that you have made this amendment is very important, too. [[And according to the rules.]] Your weight on this scales is not an average weight. These aren't opposition amendments. And to be well understood, and to be wrong, Mr. Marshal, I would like to say that in this case, by means of the rules of procedure, you have passed the regulations and prevented the debate on this new law, because your amendment makes it a new law. That's what I meant, Mr. Marshal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many words were used during the debate on this law. I would suggest to the President and Senator Bierecki that once again, perhaps at home, he listen to his speech and draw attention to the language he was using. Far from that tongue to the gentleness mentioned here by Senator Frost... [[To be tender.]] ...and for tenderness, for various other things. I don't think such a language is such an important and serious debate... But the question of language can eventually be turned to the agenda, because everyone speaks the way they can, and uses such accents and emotions as they think are most important. It seems to me that during the debate on this law, we have forgotten to the end the purpose of this law and what should have been done here. It is said that this is the law that executes the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal It is a pity that they did not use these arguments during the committee debate, when we pointed out this when we asked when we were talking about some proposals for a solution. No. At that time, this amount of PLN 3 000, introduced into the law, was to be de facto implemented by the Constitutional Tribunal. That's a weird way of arguing. Representatives of various NGOs were invited to this committee meeting. They made their points, arguments, we listened to them all. But all these things just went into nothingness... Because why listen to this if this law changes completely at the next meeting? Even this morning, at noon and early this afternoon, I really tried to find this bill. I even talked to the senator that we wanted to think about it, discuss it earlier. Honestness would dictate... that he wants to radically change the bill in relation to what we worked out at the committee meeting... You can do that, but you just have to show this project. He probably wasn't ready yet. It was created half an hour before the plenary session. Or maybe it was, but you deliberately didn't want it then, gentlemen, to show it. You could have done it. There wouldn't be so many bad emotions that accompany this bill. You can change and make amendments to any law, any one of us can do it, it's obvious Only here this change is so profound and far-reaching that it kind of puts this whole discussion into nothingness, this debate. Is she really serving those social goals that Senator Frost has spoken so strongly about here, that so far it has not been, that it was only now, with this great revolutionary change, that we care about the social interest, that we eliminate the tax burden for people who earn 500 zlotys a month? What's the big revolution? Yes? In fact, the tax burden in Poland for people paying in the first tax range, i.e. where they pay 18% income tax, really, was 8% in 2013. 8% that is the actual burden of income tax on individuals. Maybe it's a little different right now. So it's not some shocking and radical burden that's hard to deal with. For the vast crowd, almost 3 million people, the least earners, this tax was not at all, it was zero in practice. I also asked the Minister. He couldn't exactly answer me that. To a simple question, because I was asking a question about the budgetary implications of this tax change. If it were a thing like this... Senator Frost said there would be less than PLN 1 billion in budget revenue. So far, there has been a law, according to which PLN 3 000 tax-free covered everyone, so the budgetary consequences also applied to the entire taxpayer pool, i.e. those twenty-few million people exempt from income tax in the amount of PLN 3 000. What effect does this have? You don't know that. This is basic information. As it is said that we are changing the tax burden system and this amendment, which has been tabled today, will have a budgetary effect of PLN 1 million... [[PLN 1 billion.]] ...1 billion PLN, I'm sorry. And what was the result of the system so far? You should be able to answer that question. So that I think there were a lot of words here that just have little to do with everything that you'd like to talk about. We'll see in a while. We ask, I ask, and today I ask, just to assess, just after a year, how this really affects the condition of our citizens, especially the least earning ones. I asked about the question of who will actually be the beneficiary of this law, which social group. I've never talked about classrooms, because that reminds me more of Marxism and those times when we were talking about classrooms. But the social group to which we are directing this bill should be clearly defined. So in whose case do we want his problems really to be better dealt with than they have been so far. That was the answer: we're not talking about it at all. Well, what do you mean, we're not talking? If we say that people who earn 500 zlotys a month will be exempt from this tax, we know who we're talking about. Right? We know what these categories of citizens are, where there really is this real social problem with these taxes. Why don't we talk like this? So I think you could talk about all these things calmly, without emotion, without a language that, I don't think, is right for the senator, that you can talk about these things better. Sometimes that's what I think at the end of the day, they're screaming the most about thieves, crooks... You know how to talk about it. Yes? Catching a thief says one who, so to speak, often has the most on his conscience in such matters. That's what he says most about social justice and all sorts of things. I hope in this case It's not. I wish I was even wrong. This better be good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u186	Mr. Marshal Borowski. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I would like to pay my condolences to my colleagues in Law and Justice, because the government really screwed you up, just put you in an extremely difficult position. This is a mission impossible, explain why there is no 8,000 zlotys, only 6,000 zlotys, and not for everyone, but for a definite minority. That's what you're gonna do, ladies and gentlemen. You just can't do it. It would be fairer to say that we have miscalculated, that we have made too many promises in the election campaign. Senator Frost was so heroic trying to explain the government here. Three points and everyone tried to explain... Well, you can't, Mr. Senator. [[Yeah, I can do that.]] 500+, retirement age... it was all reportedly numbered during the campaign. And it's not for four years, it's just... Not for four years, Mr. Senator, not... [[The money was empty, it turns out.]] The change in the tax-free amount was to take place, as the Prime Minister said, in the first 100 days. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] There's records, there's photos, there's recordings, etc. Yeah, they just overreacted. And today, you have allowed yourselves to report this project by way of the senator's office and translate for the government. It is the government that should submit this project and it is the government that should explain to society why there is no 8,000 PLN here. I can honestly say that if the Minister came out here and said we were very sorry, but we counted, we thought that we would get this income faster, but we didn't get it at the assumed pace, so we had to postpone something, do something in part, then probably a lot of people would say: well, they admit they've miscalculated, but they're doing something. And today, the senators have taken the form of an attack: what have you done, and what is this hypocrisy... Well, Senator Bierecki, I'm looking into your honest blue eyes... [[Fun in the room]] ...and I ask the question: where are the limits of cynicism? [[Applause]] Don't run like that out of this podium. There's no need, there's no need. This is case one. Case number two. Now I'm gonna popolize with Mr. Marshal a little bit, even though there's been some polemics. Of course there's a letter of law, or our rules, but there's a spirit, a custom. Can you imagine that all the projects in the Seym go on the road? This is acceptable, by the way. The government prepares these projects, gives them to a group of Members, and Members report. [[And then he's rooting for it.]] Yeah, you can. But why is it generally different? Because the government road is characterised by inter-ministerial consultations, with interested NGOs, etc. To make the law as good as possible. And the parliamentary projects are supposed to be an exception. [[That's what I'm saying.]] If this were the case, for example. In the Seym, you'd probably say it's overkill. And what do we observe in the Senate? Well, the Senate is lucky there's no such inflation of senators' projects. Right? But this project, as has already been said, is a new project. There's a project that says we leave the amount free, nothing happens... And there should actually be five minutes of discussion here. Right? Some for, others against And goodbye. And then all of a sudden, there's a project that flips it over completely and introduces a fairly complicated system. Well, I'm very sorry, but this should be a debate. She was... Senator Czerwiński shouted in the back: what are you discussing? Well, we're intelligent people, we read the papers, and we start asking... [[Applause]] But what if we don't have it on paper? We don't have it on paper, and Senator Bierecki doesn't want to read it exactly. That's what Senator Jackowski read... I don't know how he knew this project. We didn't know him. Senator Bierecki didn't read it, but for example he said... [[You have to read the right papers.]] ...that most Poles will benefit from it. Well, it's probably some other project, because the Minister made it clear that he would benefit 3.5 million Poles and 250,000 would lose. Rest We're talking about taxes, which is about 19, 20 million, and it's not going to gain or lose. The question arises as to what Senator Bierecki's definition of majority is. It's a new definition, or you just have some other project you're not cheating on. Ladies and gentlemen, this shows that... not this way, of course. Now, about the substance of this project... [[Corrections.]] ...that's correct, yes. I understand there's no money. Well, there's no money. First, the government was working with a uniform tax, heads were working there until, as I'd say, they were smoking. [[Voice from the room: But nothing came of it.]] It didn't work out. And time was running. And here's the last minute you have to do something, because prolonging it is not a good way. Which means the government screwed up. The government just blew it. [[He inherited it, he inherited it.]] [[He blew it.]] And of you gentlemen and senators of Law and Justice, he made a contractor... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...and just such a boy to translate... [[Voice from the hall: And to beat.]] ...and to beat, yes, and to beat in this case. [[Voice from the room: Sorry.]] And now the question of the substance of this project. Ladies and gentlemen, there were two options that would not cause such complications. Because this project is complicated... I mean, the amendment, I'm sorry. She's like that, I think, from what I heard from Senator Jackowski. 'Cause I assume this is it... [[We don't know if that's it.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] And she's very complicated. She until she reaches 6,000 600 PLN is simple. Then, from PLN 6,000 600 to PLN 11,000, there is a smooth descent and it is already very complicated. It can't be settled a month. It can only be settled annually. Then, over 85 grand, it's the same. And now the question is: what other possibilities were there? The first option was: we just return the tax. [[Yes, sir.]] [[That's right.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh!]] So the people who make between 250 PLN are the amount free to date and 550 PLN and pay the tax so that we can just return it. And we already have a practice of refunding taxes for families who have children, and they don't pay enough tax to benefit from the relief. Therefore, this would be done at a point in time. It's just that... And the rest wouldn't have to be taken care of at all. But it wasn't used. The second option is free for all. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I understand that she would cost a lot of money and that there's no money for it. This is why interest rates are being reformed. Yeah, thresholds and interest rates. And that's reform! And now something about the Constitutional Court. Few people remember this, but some years ago the Constitutional Tribunal spoke about the amount free and whether the amount free can be differentiated. I suggest you reach for it. The Court found that the amount of free money should not be universal. [[It's common!]] However, the government, the state, has the right to differentiate interest rates, thresholds so that the income ratios of individual earning groups are consistent with the sense of fairness. And that would be the easiest. That way we'd avoid... And what comes out of all this? I am asking this because I assume that this amendment tabled will be voted on. What's going on? From this comes classic grabbing with your left hand by your right ear. And this is an uncomfortable and quite funny position. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u188	Senator Augustine. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! In fact, the word that comes to mind when I look at this debate, and even when I read the draft of these changes. Not to mention the parent exit itself. This is, of course, disappointing. I'm gonna start by saying why... Because there have been many accusations here: why hasn't the Platform made such changes over the past few years? And that's something that needs to be addressed. Because of this, for which the Constitutional Tribunal did not order this solution to be implemented immediately. Because, as you know, the Constitutional Tribunal always takes into account, in addition to constitutional provisions, the state's financial condition, and so sets out the deadlines for budgetary expenditure to be realistic wherever possible. I considered that the Civic Platform, or at least the Polish state, was able to bear this burden around this time. Hence the term. Not from the ceiling and not from the whims. Previously, the Constitutional Tribunal was aware that it was simply impossible to do so without destroying public finances. The answer, as you can see, is simple, simple and honest. My disappointment... The word "disappointment" comes to mind also when you look at the way this law is being processed. Ladies and gentlemen, let's remind you. The government did not want to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal by means of Members, and with the favorable position of the Ministry in the Senate, it led to support by the committee of the project in which the Constitutional Tribunal was not intended to execute the judgment. Of course, it is disappointing with regard to the procedure itself, but above all it was amazing for voters who heard the words Mr. Marshal Borowski and many others were just reminding them here. That will be tax-free for all: 8 000 in 100 days. It was disappointing to the point that, when the plarum rose, the state gave way under pressure from the public and under pressure from the opposition, not out of goodwill. Because if it wasn't for the pressure, those laws would have passed. We are now saying 'check' and with the proposed amendments we want to remind you of what you promised. At the same time, we have the right to be satisfied to some extent, because if we hadn't made such a noise that we were very effective in reminding you of your promise, there would be no change. To put it on tape today, you proposed a change in the form of an amendment to the plenary debate. And while, in principle, it goes in the direction indicated by the Court in order to help the poorest, it certainly disappoints. Because there's literally a polar difference between what you promised and what you're proposing. I don't really believe in the 3.5... once I hear 3.5 million and once I hear 3 million. I'm trying to count them. Who's that? Maybe those who work for a quarter of a job? How about those who work part-time? There's a lot of unemployed people out there who are going down. Who makes that kind of money in Poland a month? Of course, it's a handful of people, but I don't know if it should be counted in so many millions. If that's the case, then it's our joint. For a year now, yours, too. It is a shame that there are 3 million people who earn 550 zlotys a month. It's disappointing that so shallow and that for such a small group... I agree with Marshal Borowski. This debate is also disappointing in this respect. I say this to one and the other financier, to those sitting in government benches and senate benches. In fact, it would be fair to say, in the care of all of us, just as the Court, while caring for all of us at one time, did not order the immediate introduction of these solutions, but set for a time, we cannot do certain things and we will do them at another time. You want a very narrow solution that can at most serve as a fig leaf for unfulfilled promises, end the case. It seems to me that it is not right and that it is disappointing for those who, when voting for you, hoped for so much. No one's gonna fall for that. Those who were hoping for a tax-free amount of 8,000 will certainly not fall for it. And those poor, very poor people who were hoping for help are going to be very disappointed, because mostly, 90% of them are not going to be affected. I believe that this amendment is to some extent an expression of your fears, and to some extent a desire to cover the fact that you have deceived people. [[Applause]] [[Then why don't we just throw it away if it's so bad?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u190	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Komarnicki has made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Bierecki, Senator Czarnobaj, Senator Florek and Senator Rulewski. [[I've put it together...]] Excuse me... [[Together...]] The state put it together. I read the first person's name. If several senators are signed, we read the first person's name. [[But I'm the first one on the list.]] Good. The senator has made a legislative proposal. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: No.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held today, after consideration of point two. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print no 336 and the report of the committee In print No 336 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission prepared a report on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 16 November, the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and other laws. The report is contained in print No 336 A. After considering the law at its meeting on 28 November, the committee requests the adoption of a law with an amendment to print No 336 A. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u192	Thank you very much, Senator, for the smooth presentation of the report. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u193	Mr Senator, Mr President, what exactly was the reason for the government's withdrawal from the obligation in the Act that VAT would be reduced to 22%? How was that argued?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u194	I don't recall that kind of question from the committee meeting. I will say that public information is widely available that this change, i.e. the reduction of VAT, can only take place after the system has been sealed. As you senators are well aware, in the last 8 years we are dealing with a huge tax hole in the area of VAT. After all, the main purpose of the bill, which was discussed by our committee, is to seal VAT and increase its revenue. The change in the percentage of VAT collected can only be made after the satisfactory sealing of the tax collection in this respect. That is the official justification of the Ministry of Finance, although at the committee meeting, if I remember correctly, none of the senators asked such a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u195	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, then Mr. Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u196	Senator rapporteur said that reducing VAT to 22% It'll be as soon as it's sealed... [[Satisfying.]] Yeah, yeah. [[After evaluation of this sealing process.]] Will this result in the execution of the announcement by Minister Ziobra that VAT fraud could even be sentenced to life?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u197	Another question. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! Mr President, in my question, I would like to make a suggestion... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please! Allow me to ask you a question for Senator Blackbay.]] During the debate, I personally asked the question: what does the government justify not reducing the tax rate from 23% to 22%? The Minister honestly said that this was about budget spending, he clearly pointed to the 500+ programme. What you later said about sealing, this is your joyful work, this is not a faithful reflection of what was being discussed by the committee, and I would like to ask: is what you said that after the seal we will reduce from 23%... Is this your work, or do you have such information from government representatives?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u199	Thank you. Senator Augustine again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u200	When the Platform completely, so to speak, across the expectations of voters and declarations, under the influence of the crisis, was forced to increase VAT, it immediately indicated that this would be a transitional solution. We've set a deadline... As I understand it, the government has now come to the conclusion that, as I hear from Senator Czarnobaj, spending on the 500+ programme can't undo it. In the context of electoral promises, you can be disappointed, but you have to accept that. And my question is, did you honestly... did you talk about any dates when this level was 22%? Will it be restored? Because such a general declaration is unsatisfying. Maybe she was talking about it, so I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u201	Thank you. Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u202	Thank you very much. The Act provides for a maintenance rate of 23% in the years 2017/2018. These are the dates the senator asked about. Senator Czarnobaj's question was where I got that 23%, right? [[No, no, Mr. Senator. Whether it's government-source information or...]] Mr. Senator, this is public information. During the Seym debate, there were such... I encourage you to reach for seym transcripts. [[Who said that?]] [[That's what happened in the debate.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] In the Seym debate, in the transcripts of the Seym debate, government representatives... [[Wait a minute.]] You're welcome. There was a question from Marshal Borusewicz about the operation of Minister Ziobra to seal the tax system... [[No. I asked about the life sentence, when Minister Ziobro... will he be there when Ziobro brings in the life sentence... will you bring in...]] [[Is this your Marshal's request?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[If it was a request, I wouldn't ask.]] Allow me, Mr. Marshal, to refer to this serious part of your question, to this ridiculous, humorous part I no longer need, because, as I understand it, she had a different purpose than the question after all... [[Mr. Senator, Minister Ziobro is a member of the government, and he was serious about it, so don't say I'm asking seriously.]] Minister, a well-functioning justice system, the awareness of criminals about the inevitability of punishment is the foundation of good tax collection. Without these two elements I have said, it is difficult to imagine that tax will be effectively and effectively enforced. [[It's easier to pay in the Czech Republic.]] There must be awareness that non-payment of taxes is a punishment and that punishment is inevitable. [[For everyone?]] As for its severity, we can discuss, but the most important thing is the inevitability of this punishment. [[But for everyone?]] This element, Mr. Marshal, over the last eight years, you have not provided such a huge amount of VAT fraud.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u203	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see... Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u204	No, no, no. I'm sorry. I have a question. Of course, I agree with you on the inevitability of punishment, and I agree with the senator here. But I wanted to ask you what you think... I wanted to ask you something else. What do you think of Minister Ziobra's proposal to punish... that this punishment be included in life sentence?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u205	Mr. Marshal, you know the rules. After all, the senator is reporting a committee meeting on this bill, and this is not a record of this project. [[But since the senator answered partially, so I wanted to ask you a specific question, but if he can't answer it, I won't be able to...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u206	Mr. Marshal, I can answer, but in exchange for the coffee you'll offer me in your office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u207	Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: No.]] No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see... [[Me, me.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u208	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for the government representative, the Minister. For what reasons did the government not decide to reduce the VAT rate from 23% to 22%? For what reason?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u209	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u210	The reasons are obvious. We are in the process of horizontal changes concerning the sealing of the VAT system. There are actions on the IT side, on the legislative side, as the senator noted, as well as on the criminal law side, on the fiscal criminal side. This is a whole team of activities that aim to address this problem with a lot of, so to speak, directions... And we expect that these actions will only be effective at the coherence stage of these actions. I am not going to present any further actions, in one more area, so to speak, the laws or economies that will be taken, but these proposals will soon be presented in a legislative form. And the sum of these actions is to give the result of a return to the scale of the tax gap we had in favor of, you can say, the first PiS. Over the years of the previous coalition's government, the VAT gap has steadily increased. And this year, it happens so accidentally, it decreases again. So we are convinced that if we continue to do this, we will come to the same efficiency of VAT as it was 10 years ago. I would like to remind you that an increase in the VAT rate was envisaged for 3 years at the end of 2010 and 2011. So that since 2014 theoretically we should be in the world 22% VAT as regards the standard rate, the basic rate. And we are not, precisely because of the lack of sealing activities regarding these frauds. Because if the previous governments had done their homework and taken the basic actions that other countries have taken, even if they were neighbouring, also at our level of development or efficiency of administration, we would probably be able to go back to 22%. But this has not been done and that is why we have a standard rate of 23%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u211	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u212	Two short questions. The issue of VAT sealing isn't just a matter of one department, it's a matter of the whole government. Yes? In this connection, I ask: does Minister Ziobro consult with you? Well, because the offer of life, which is the highest penalty, for extortion of VAT, is a proposal by the Minister of Justice. It's causing me to be surprised. So I'm asking if he's consulting. Are such activities consulted? And another question. This applies when there will be an electronic VAT collection system. Because it was one of the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u213	Thank you. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u214	Thank you very much. Minister, you just said that one of the reasons why VAT is not reduced is that the system is still leaky. I think it's a little unfair. Well, why should ordinary citizens suffer because the system is leaky? Well, something here isn't really... The increase in tax 3 years ago had a clear objective. And the translation that you're not lowering Although then you spared us no criticism, it is, to me, somewhat unacceptable. And second question. You have often said, also in the previous point, that budgetary revenues are increasing, among others. because VAT collection is higher. Did you put cleverly into this budget revenue? 9 billion revenue this year from LTE plus profits from the National Bank of Poland and this is the budget revenue, am I wrong?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u215	Thank you. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u216	Minister, if next year as a result of VAT sealing, which you are now saying you are doing, it turns out that the budget revenue will be less... Because we don't know for sure that next year they won't be less than the impact this year. Is that a 23% rate then? will it also be extended for the following years? Is that what you're planning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u217	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u218	Mr. Marshal, Minister, let me refer to this question that Senator Florek asked. That's basically the consequence of his question. In what year will you seal the tax collection system, I mean those VAT fraud cases so that you can go back to that basic rate?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u219	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u220	Actually, I've already partially exhausted my questions, but maybe I'll ask you this way... Because the Minister is talking about the seal slogan and hence the extension of the VAT increase. And in the election campaign, the slogan of sealing the tax system was one of the most important. Therefore, my specific question: what effect did this sealing have during this year? What tangible benefits do we have over the course of the year from the implementation of this password?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u221	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay again, right? No... [[Yeah, yeah, but I haven't...]] I'm sorry. [[Mr. Marshal, I haven't said anything in this debate yet. That's the last one.]] I realized it wasn't. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u222	Mr Marshal, Minister, I am returning to the issue that our legislator has raised, namely the question of not registering the entity as a VAT taxpayer. Today, there are two points, namely that the taxable person, the applicant, does not exist, and that, despite the trials undertaken, there is no possibility of contacting the taxable person. Then such a taxable person, and rightly so, is not registered as a VAT taxable person. You are proposing to add two more: that the data given in the registration declaration will prove to be incorrect, and that the taxpayer or his agent does not bet on the requests of the tax authority and the tax authority... well, one kind of coincides with the other. And the legislator rightly claims that, in this third and fourth case, the proposal assumes that the body will be able to not enter the entity and not inform it. So as a result of some mistake, the entity will not even have a means of appeal. Therefore, the legislator's opinion states that these first two points are sufficient for the protection and sealing of the system, and that you are proposing these two additional points. Could the Minister comment on that? That's the first question. And the other. We have agreed, Minister, at the committee meeting that the Minister will give in writing an interpretation concerning the increase of VAT fees, the fees for the taxpayer concerned and whether there is no risk in these new proposals that Mr Kluski's cough will be repeated, namely that we are taking money first of our own motion, and only after 5 years the court has issued a valid decision that, however, the office did not have the right to do so. Does the Minister know anything about this yet? If not, I will confirm that I would still be happy to receive this interpretation from the Minister. Because it's a very important topic to not fire a baby with a bath as part of sealing, which is important.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u223	Thank you very much. Are there any more calls? There isn't. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u224	Thank you. First issue: consultation with the Ministry of Justice. I haven't read the documents on this trial yet. I have an appointment with the Vice Minister of Justice who has the subject of VAT fraud under his care. My intention is that the electronicisation of VAT collection or the electronicisation of documents collection should be slightly synchronised with the needs of the judicial services in cases where it is necessary to provide these services with the appropriate documentation base. And we have this aspect in mind, so that these matters are coordinated. Of course I do. There was also a question about the electronicisation of VAT. The electronicisation of VAT is a very broad concept. We certainly have a view to achieving that a single control file will cover a sufficiently wide range of entities, representing a sufficiently broad transaction population, so that we can actually carry out effective analyses and find carousels within this database. In parallel, similar analyses will be carried out at the level of financial flows and other related activities will take place e.g. with electronicisation or automatic data collection from fiscal cash registers. There are quite a number of these processes of VAT electronization, therefore it is difficult to say about one specific date after which we can say that our VAT is electronicised. I am already abstracting the fact that I do not know the country with fully electronic VAT, either in Europe or outside the EU. As far as rising budget revenues are concerned, we are certainly not talking here about income from LTE or other such one-off, uncertain sources, such as the NBP's contribution from the profit, which is, as I say, unprogrammable budget. The next issue is the 23 percent stake. Can we define all this today? Of course not, it's an open case. Like I said, we have this two-year window now. During this time, we are still planning to maintain 23%, but if these actions are effective, I think this subject will be reopened. And that's how I answer the question of what year we're going to go to 22%. It's also kind of dependent on... but I have to say that, as I said at the committee meeting, we're going to have to look at the technique of the definition of the scope of VAT rates, which is imperfect for many years. Previously it was updated or changed in 2011. At the same time, there was no opportunity to switch to other types of legislative systems for determining the scope of VAT rates for specific goods. We are dealing with the situation that taxpayers, although the goods are known, receive contradictory answers from the services, from the statistical offices. So we certainly have these points in mind. We want to solve these problems so as to facilitate business activity for entrepreneurs, but at the same time we are also thinking about some perversions or abuses. Here, too, there are situations where a reduced rate gives some room to show off. Taxpayers can also benefit from this in a way that is not entirely consistent with the legislative objective. What are the effects of this sealing today? I think at the end of the year, we'll have a report showing what happened and what the effects are. It is difficult to quantify individual changes with regard to their fiscal effect, but a certain sum of these actions will certainly be described and analysed. We're at a stage where some of these changes are kind of halfway there. We are waiting for them full, so to speak, implementation, which is the best example of which is the JPK, which has been applied parts of these major entities. There will be further phases of the implementation of smaller entrepreneurs into this system, which will give a colossal starting effect, because that is the nature of this settlement. Yes, I was listening to the debate about the amount of free tax reduction that I was unable to determine, Mr. Senator, the matters of Mr. Noodles, but I remember her and I will answer for sure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u225	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u226	Minister, you have already partially replied that this will be included at the end of the year, but I would like to ask if you have at least any estimates. After all, we know from the press, from the media, that earlier in 2015 or 2014. VAT fraud cases were also detected. These issues have not been known since today, so I would at least be interested in whether there is a difference in detection or leakage. Because before that, there were also cases of VAT fraud and people were also held liable for tax reimbursement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u227	Mr. Senator, at this point I am unable to provide binding information on the difference between collection in 2015 and 2016. The year is still 2016. We're getting close to this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u228	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u229	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I'm sorry I didn't ask that question at the committee meeting. This is a technical question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 22 of the amendment makes a very good proposal on the entitlement to tax exemption. This is a change from PLN 150,000 to PLN 200,000. It's a movement in a very good direction. Except for the fact that the legislator writes that Poland is currently authorised to exempt up to EUR 30 000 from VAT. We've applied for 40, which will allow us to... There is no Council decision yet. Are there any concerns that we will... are there any leaks that there will be a positive opinion in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u230	We have leaks, although in the context of VAT it may sound bad. It was said that on November 21, the decision was made. It is not yet published. At the time of publication, everything will be consistent... There will be a permit from the European Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u231	Minister, we're gonna group up some more questions because senators can ask them forever. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u232	Minister, the bill aims, in line with the justification of its draft, to introduce solutions to improve the collectionability of tax on goods and services. Within these solutions I'm getting into it. It includes a reverse charge mechanism when the purchaser, and not the supplier, settles the VAT, selected transactions which are the subject of the provision of construction services by the sub-contractor. Could you explain to me what these transactions are and why they are important for sealing the system? That's the first question. Two. It is said: transactions which are subject to processors if the total value of transactions exceeds PLN 20,000. I'd like to extend this point. "Transactions which are the subject of certain goods in the category of gold, silver and platinum'. I'd also like a few words about this point. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: First of all, I would like to say that... Sorry, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u233	Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u234	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I would return to the question of the effects of VAT sealing. I'd like a written reply. I don't think you're in a position to present it right now. What were the VAT receipts on a quarterly basis in 2016, in the first, second and third quarters, in relation to the revenues in 2015. What's the difference on the plus side? The point is that we can determine which of the legislative measures we have undertaken has contributed to the increase in VAT collection. I'd like a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u235	Mr. Marshal, since this question is in line with my question, I will also ask for the written answer requested by Senator Czerwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u236	Good. Are there any more questions? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u237	Minister, in the Committee on National Economy, we worked on laws to seal the system and increase VAT collection. Will you confirm that last year's VAT receipts were 8 billion higher and that they were indeed due to the sealing projects undertaken by the previous government in 2015?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u238	Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u239	Minister, why is the possibility of using quarterly accounts for taxpayers other than small taxpayers avoided? Why is it envisaged that quarterly accounts cannot be used during the first 12 months of business, as has been the case so far?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u240	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Are you sure? Mr. Senator Rulewski. I knew that... [[You can't mistake him...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u241	Mr. Marshal does it out of kindness to me. It is known that VAT is not a concept closed only within Poland and that it is precisely when crossing the borders of Poland... What are the forms of cooperation in the fight against crime, on the one hand and on the other, in other European countries? How does this police work, or does it work at all? Are information exchanged with all countries on an ongoing basis or not? I'm talking about the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u242	Are there any more calls? Are you sure? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u243	The first set of questions concerns reversed VAT. As we said in the committee, reversed VAT is an anomaly in the VAT system. As a rule, this type of anomaly should not be introduced, so the decision that a given product group or group of services is subject to reverse VAT is determined by the feedback from the tax checks we carry out. They inform us of the urgent need to address a particular product group or services. Therefore, if today we propose reversed VAT in the case of construction subcontractors, this is the result of the communication of our services with the substantive department. And that's why it's a proposal. It will be further clarified in various types of documents or instructions. A similar action took place in the case of previous amendments, which concerned electronics when we also met the demands of the industry to address some specific questions that are often not suitable for the legislative phase. If we're talking about processors and transactions above 20,000, then... well, that's what I'm going to say, the effect of this anomaly that the domestic transaction suddenly gets the quality of the export transaction 0%. So, in order not to fire the baby with the bath, we need to set a limit. The point is that the private consumer who acquires processors is not able to benefit from the reverse charge and that the transaction, which is domestic and concerns consumption, does not have an export dimension. That's where the limit comes from. And that's kind of the answer to the fact that it's the introduction of an anomaly into the system. That's where we sort of agree. Another thing. Gold, silver, platinum. Well, it's an extension, because I'm reminding you that investment gold is also at a 0% stake. So these are kind of actions communicated by the KS, to which we respond in this way. As I said at the committee meeting, these actions are ad hoc. We are also taking systemic action, which may allow, in the long term, to come out of this anomaly. Another thing. Is there an increase in revenue in 2015? I admit I don't remember. I know that in one of the years there was the effect of shifting VAT returns from one year to another, from December to January, which resulted in a seemingly jumping seal of the system. I do not know whether this concerned 2015 or 2014. I think it's 2014, but I'd have to check it out. I'll answer in writing. Why are we closing quarterly accounts? Quarterly settlements are eliminated due to the fact that the life of the tax carousel is short. By juggling the time limits for the statements of the different entities of the parties applying for reimbursement after one month of activity versus those reporting the tax due at the end of the quarter We come to a situation like holes and gaps in data, which makes it easier to obtain undue returns. And it's kind of obvious, it's obviously a problem. In an era of electronics and computerization, there is no problem that this type of reporting takes place in a monthly cycle. As far as international cooperation is concerned, yes, I think that this cooperation could be as much deeper or more complete, but this is also a matter of maximising the effect of effort. We believe that internal action will have a better effect than an attempt to open discussion channels and joint action at international level. I know that there is some strengthening of cooperation between Romania and Bulgaria. We'll see how this works, and maybe we can use these experiences. There was another question about... Did the board agree... I think I've already answered that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u244	If you don't remember, it's probably not important. Are there any more questions? Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: Thank you.]] I inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Czerwinski and Senator Zientarski... and Senator Augustyn... [[And mine.]] Yes, and Senator Augustine. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make two amendments to this bill, which I will briefly discuss. Amendment 1 concerns the amount of VAT. This increased VAT of 23% expires at the end of December of this year. We also agreed that it would be in force by the end of 2016. I think I'm pretty sure they treated this VAT the same way. They believed that this basic tax would apply from 1 January 2017. This made it easier to believe that VAT would return to its former level, that Law and Justice were very critical of our decision when we raised VAT. The Law and Justice representatives thought that this would be an ineffective decision, would not produce the expected effect, i.e. an increase in VAT revenue. I am making an amendment that eliminates the increase proposed by the Law and Justice for the following years. My second proposal concerns the question of power of attorney. This case was raised at a committee meeting, and the minister referred to it. This problem was brought to the attention of the counsellors. It is a provision which introduces joint and several liability of a representative for the taxpayer's obligations arising within 6 months of the date of registration. This principle is contrary to the principle and the institution of power of attorney. The attorney shall act on behalf of the client and on behalf of the client, and shall therefore be liable only for his actions and the blamed ones. Here, an institution is introduced under which a proxy would be liable even for those obligations which will arise after the termination of the power of attorney's relationship. After all, the proxy is not able to control the activities of the taxpayer and is never responsible for this activity. This applies not only to professional representatives, i.e. lawyers, lawyers, lawyers who have compulsory insurance, but also to any person to whom the right to register is granted. Such a person may not have any experience in such matters, may not even know to what extent his or her employer will continue to operate. Even the insurance of professional agents does not cover such liability. Insurances that have tax advisers, lawyers, lawyers or accountants include only civil liability, i.e. activities for which they are guilty and which result from the non-professional performance of their professional duties. This responsibility is in no way related to the integrity or professionality of the proxy. The amendment which deletes the provisions concerning this joint and several liability of the agents shall be notified. By the way, I would like to draw attention to one more element. And the Minister and Senator Bierecki pointed out that there are now emergency situations related to the prevention of VAT fraud, that new rules are being introduced. I would like to remind the ladies and gentlemen here that it is on the initiative of the Senate... It is here, in this House, that action has been taken to reverse VAT and with joint and several responsibilities. These were regulations that were adopted; they are included in this law that we are discussing today. These were matters that we pointed out: VAT fraud on trade in steel rods, steel in general, or various kinds of color metals. One step at a time, where the VAT extortioners would appear... We introduced rules, treating the principle of reverse VAT and joint and several liability as exceptional mechanisms which are not, in principle, related to the VAT system, but should be introduced where fraud occurs. Today, you are introducing reverse VAT and joint and several responsibility for the next areas, where these criminals also appear, e.g. for areas related to construction robots, some food products, perhaps the most important is rape oil, etc. These are positive actions, but it cannot be made of some emergency and exceptional situation, because, as I say, such a mechanism was introduced in the previous term of office and is continued. If at this moment, at this time, we were talking about extraordinaryness, we also questioned the involvement of many of the ministry's employees, who have been conducting these cases for years, engaging, preparing regulations, working on all of this. There hasn't changed much, these people have been working on these things together with us, and now they're continuing it. Talking about some great revolution would just be unfair to the people who worked on these things. I also want to say Maybe not a lot of people know about this. The fact that some of our experiences with reverse VAT or joint responsibility were also perceived and accepted by our neighbours, e.g. by the Germans. These activities have been carried out, have been effective and I hope they will bring further good solutions. It should also be remembered that criminals simply jump from product to product, if they only see a gap, the possibility of action. I hope, and even that it will be possible to seal it here, but in another place that we are not even able to determine today, there may be another scam. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u246	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Everything related to VAT sealing, in general to tax sealing, is a commendable undertaking. I think we will live to see such a time, that also in Poland the motto will be what the Americans often say: there are two things that are certain Paying taxes and dying. Although when I read about the way President-elect dealt with paying taxes, I'm starting to have second thoughts. As for that principle. But let's get back to the Polish reality. Remember Senator Kleina told you about this? The amount of tears you shed here when, due to circumstances, due to the crisis and the European and global crisis, because of saving the budget, the VAT rate was increased from 22% to 23%. That's right, because that was your role, but there was no minute of peace... We have heard how it is the Civic Platform together with PSL to rob Polish taxpayers. In view of today's increase in consumption and thanks to sealing... I think there are circumstances that encourage you to return to the VAT rate at 22%. But I know what it's gonna be like. I am now particularly addressing the Senators of Lower Silesia: do you remember how many screams were made about the introduction of copper tax? I hope that in the budget that comes to us, you have planned the deletion and the forest tax, and the copper tax. Well, VAT, as I see it, I don't think... Well, it's important to be clear: promises cost money without covering. And today, when I read the development stories of many countries, showing who, when, how, why was he developing... Well, I have to tell you what the information is. I have not yet encountered a study showing that state expenditure has been increased excessively and that it has been successful. I have not encountered a country in which it is claimed that national capital is better than international capital. I want to tell you that I recently read a paper on Jamaica. Very interesting work, I recommend. The authors of this economic success of Jamaica at the turn of the 1960's and 1970's said: 'We are pretty good.' We've got 50%. income per capita, which is in the United States. But what did they decide? Any Americans out there gonna have more than us? No, we need more. They said, "Why should American companies invest?" Let's lean on our capital... etc., and they won't repeat all this anymore, because I'm running out of time. Come on, let's see what our responsible development is. And do you know how you ended this responsible development combined with solutions like you put in place? Today Jamaica has 1/10 per capita income in relation to income in the United States. That's how dreams end. And that's why I'm going to move on to two comments on this bill. Namely, the legislator made the point that I asked the Minister here, and which was raised at the committee meeting. It's about removing the taxpayer from the register. And so far there have been two points. One: the taxpayer applies for registration but does not exist. Well, it's obvious, as the classic says: it doesn't exist. He can't be a taxable person. And second point: Despite the documentation taken That is to say, a clear, legible provision in the rule of law of trials is not possible to contact the taxable person, the applicant or his agent. It is obvious: in short, avoids control, avoids talking to tax institutions, avoids explaining the situation Okay, it has to be deleted without notice. But there's two more points. And what does the legislator write? If something is added that if the data given in the registration is incorrect, the taxable person is not informed, only the official deletes the taxable person because he considers the data to be incorrect... And if that clerk made a mistake, then what? No, we'll say sorry, sir. Here's Mr. Kluski's kazus. ♪ I'm calling ♪ Kluska, it didn't work out again. Point 4 in the same paragraph states that the entity or his agent shall not be placed on the request of the tax authority or tax control authority. There's no notice again. Well, what happens when you can't really get there for different reasons? After all, there is this record that the office must prove that the taxpayer avoids this contact. So again, we are putting the office and the official in a privileged position, who knows better than the Polish taxpayer. I, of course, subscribe to all activities that seal the system, but I also subscribe to any doubts connected with giving the officials powers over measure and without such a need. ♪ 'Cause the clerk ♪ I'm sorry, all the officials. Like the world, not only in Poland, how something can be interpreted for its own convenience and for its own benefit differently understood, what I want to assure you will do. Therefore, the countries that do such a thing have clearly and clearly written in the law: yes, yes, yes, yes. And it's written here that they'll turn out to be untruthful... What truth? Objective? Different? I therefore make an amendment to leave it in this respect as it is, as our legislator has said. Mr. Marshal, I am making an amendment to remove these two points. Finally, what I asked the Minister at the committee meeting during the debate, and now I have to say it again. This is a very important matter. It doesn't come from my experience, because I don't run any company, but I have a lot of colleagues who run companies, and they ask me straight. From here on out, Minister, such may be a little too much inquisitive. If these regulations are such that the official will make a decision, they will rip this guy off, and after 5 years it will turn out that this is not true. In the previous system, there was a provision that amounts could be collected by the taxpayer after the final decision of the court. That's when I understand. If you have faith in the independence of the courts, it is understandable that such a provision is, will and will adequately protect taxpayers from mistakes in issuing tax decisions. Thank you very much. [[After 10 years.]] I know the clerk's gonna spend it faster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u248	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to strongly support Senator Kleina's amendment, which concerns me completely with a psychic legal structure, namely the joint liability of the proxy for the actions of his employer. Ladies and gentlemen, I am fresh from the convention, the National Lawyer's Meeting, where the President of the Republic of Poland took part, emphasizing very widely the rank of this profession... [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] ...and the need for power of attorney in the performance of its statutory function. And the statutory function is not what the Deputy Minister of Justice Warchoł was talking about, because he was talking about the defendant's helper. No. Lawyer in accordance with Article. 1 The Law on Lawyers is not only a person who provides legal assistance, but is also a person who cooperates, i.e. a legal person, of course this applies to individual lawyers and solicitors who are lawyers, who influence cooperation and lawmaking. Therefore, my speech as a lawyer, although not a profession, but a lawyer, in my opinion, is necessary here. Ladies and gentlemen, it's like a defense attorney or attorney who represents and acts in the interest of What was emphasized here, it's obvious And in his name and in his behalf... After all, he is not able to verify the information he received from his client. If he appears on behalf of the client for the refund of VAT, and then it turns out that it is wrong, he will answer. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this all about? I think it's because there's no other explanation to eliminate legal expertise in such situations, eliminate attorneys. What kind of proxy? I ask you, will you take matters into account if he is to be associated with his principal, jointly and severally? As Senator Klein said here, there's insurance, but from actions and commitments to the client. If he fails, i.e. does not file in time, does not appear for trial, does not file the appropriate letter, he is responsible, but not for other actions. And the financial consequences. It's like an attorney for me, a proxy for something that I don't understand at all. It's as if there's a picture here that a lawyer or a proxy is the partner of the other person who works it can happen, even very often. It's in a bad way. But he's not an accomplice! He's a proxy! And responsibility, including financial responsibility, can only be borne by the power of attorney and not by the proxy. I would like to stress that this is, ladies and gentlemen, some complete puriozum which, as I say, is intended to deprive the legal aid of those who will fight the fiscus. Very often in the right cause, although not always, it is obvious. And I stress: here absolutely cannot be this responsibility... Therefore, please, I appeal: please consider this type of construction, because it breaks That's what I think. The basic rights of the person wishing, in accordance with the law, to have his proxy, which he does not always have to enter into all matters. Therefore, this amendment Except, of course, the very essence of what the senator was talking about here, which is beyond the matter of not prolonging this rate... Well, that's basic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u250	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have tabled legislative proposals in writing by Senators Klein and Czarnobaj. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Dismissed until 11:30 p.m. Oh, and Senator Secretary will read the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u251	Message. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of the applications submitted at the 30th Senate meeting will take place half an hour after the announcement of a break in the Senate meeting in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u252	Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 08 to 23 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce an extension of the time-out until 24.00, and a half-hour time-out. [[Adjournment from 23 minutes 30 to 00 minutes 00]] We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Law on Corporate Income Tax and the Act on the amendment of the Law on Tax Law and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 327 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission, at its meeting on 28 November, after considering the requests made in the course of the debate on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Law on Corporate Income Tax and the Act amending the Act on Tax Law and certain other acts Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u255	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the minorities, I would like to ask you to support the amendments that can be divided into three groups: 1, 7 and 14... [[Voice from the room: You've got it covered.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Finally, after midnight, somebody understood, damn it, bravo. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Eureka! [[The rapporteur understood.]] [[The question is whether it's positive or negative...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Everyone calm down, because we need to listen to the senator and vote.]] Amendments 3, 4, 5, 9, 11, 12 and 13 and amendment 6... The main element of these amendments is to give you the opportunity to adopt a law which implements the proposed tax-free amount of PLN 7 000 600 for all... And there are amendments that order the question of individual interpretations. [[...which the Platform hasn't adopted in eight years.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u257	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Mr. Senator, you've already spoken. Thank you very much. Sit down. Sit down. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's better for the senator and the others if you sit down. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, what's better for me is not for you to decide.]] Senator, don't answer that. [[Why?]] In your interest, I said it. If you don't understand, it's very bad. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senators Bierecki, Czarnobaj, Kleina, Florek and Rulewski submitted their conclusions during the discussion. Do you gentlemen want to speak again? [[No.]] No. Thank you very much. In addition, Senator Jacek Włosowicz was the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Would the senator like to speak? [[No.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, no one was in favour, 81 were against, one held back. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 7 should be voted on together. These amendments delete the amendment to the transitional provision concerning individual interpretations related to the anti-tax avoidance clause. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 27 for, 53 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] Amendments 1 and 7 were rejected. Amendments 2, 8 and 10 should be voted on together. Amendments 2, 8 and 10 provide for a free amount of PLN 6 000 600 for the least earners. As a result, people whose annual income does not exceed PLN 6 000 600 will not pay the tax. Then the amount free will decrease. In the revenue range between 11 000 per year and the first tax scale range will be the current amount, and then it will decrease again to reach 0 PLN per year with the amount of revenue 127 000 per year. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 53 were in favour, 29 against. [[Voting No 5]] Amendments 2, 8 and 10 were accepted. Amendment 6? Yes. Amendment 6 states that the tax exemption does not apply to the income of investment funds closed from interest on loans granted to private companies by these funds, not to loans granted by other entities to companies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 28 for, 52 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 6 was rejected. Correction... [[Voice from the room: The whole.]] It's all over now, isn't it? Amendment 14 was already there, wasn't it? Okay. [[The voice from the room: No, it wasn't...]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: No...]] Only if amendments 2, 8 and 10 are rejected, and they have been adopted, so that Amendment 14, we do not vote. We've already voted on the amendments. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 53 votes against, 28 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act amending the Tax Law and some other laws. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 336 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission, following its meeting on 28 November and after considering the proposals made in the course of the debate on the Law amending the Act on Income Tax on Goods and Services, presents the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal contained in point 3 of the table of proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-28-senat-31-1.u259	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Kazimierz Klein and Senator Leszek Czarnobaj submitted their conclusions during the discussion. No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 deletes the provisions allowing the entity not to register as a VAT taxable person or deletes it from the register without notice due to false data or failure to comply with the Authority's request. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 29 for, 52 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 1 was rejected. Amendments 2 and 5 should be voted on together. They delete the provisions providing for joint and several liability of the representative who registered the taxable person for the tax arrears of the taxable person. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 30 for, 52 against. [[Voting No 9]] Amendments 2 and 5 were rejected. Amendment 3 corrects the reference in these provisions and thus avoids a legal gap. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 for, one abstention. [[Voting No 10]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 deletes the provision for maintaining increased VAT rates also in 2017 and 2018. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 31 for, 50 against. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 5 was voted on, including licence number 2. We therefore proceed to vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 53 for, 29 against. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the process of examining the resolutions by the Sejm committees. Dismissed until 9:00 p.m. [[Adjournment at 0 minutes 10]]
