ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Mr Babiarz and Mr Sobonia to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and list of speakers will be led by Piotr Łukasz Babiarz. Are there communications? I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - National Defense - 15 minutes after the vote, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12.15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13. There will also be a meeting of the Parliamentary Group on the examination of irregularities in reprivatisation today - at 3 p.m. 12.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u3	Thank you very much. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft resolution on the commemoration of the 10th anniversary of Mark Grechuty's death. The report shall be published in print No 941. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This is print number 950. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point about which the High House had just been informed. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for changes in the personal composition of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group. The application is print number 953. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. At the moment, a formal proposal was made by Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-attached Member. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to yesterday's resolution, in accordance with Article. 184 I move for a break, because from the information given by the Ukrainian media, it follows that the Polish Parliament adopted a different resolution than the Ukrainian Parliament, namely the sentence which raised the most controversy, in the Ukrainian version it sounds as follows: my pam ятаtyemо про боротьбу польських українських национальних сил ANTикомуністичного та антинаци- стькокого руху опору, яки створилий оралну основу для поверненя незежности- незежности насти насисия мололосистисті мосисистистие мистиие мистие бииистистистиие миииистистистииииииииииииииие. In the Polish version, the honourable state, which was adopted yesterday, unfortunately, by the Sejm, reads as follows: We remember the fight of the Polish and Ukrainian forces of the anti-communist opposition, which gave moral grounds for restoring the independence of our countries. What is it? The expression "Resistance movement" is clearly associated in Ukraine with the UPA, unlike the anti-communist opposition, present only in the Polish version of the text, which mainly concerns dissidents during the period of the Soviet Union. And now the question is, High Sejm, who's doing who here in the moron? Did the Bureau of the Polish Sejm of the High Chamber, stating that the same text was adopted in Poland and Ukraine, or did the Ukrainian party deceive the High Bureau? Because there's only two possibilities in this case. I believe that an adjournment should be made and that the High Bureau should clarify this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u5	Thank you, sir. It's a reference to some kind of press release. Well, everyone has the right to plead. The case is closed to the Sejm. The resolution has been taken. The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: 360%]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! However, you don't. Honourable ladies and gentlemen, [[Who are.]] On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. Point 6, as well as paragraph 3. 5 of this article of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I bring... [[Voice from the room: Broken by 4.]] ...to refer and refer to the Committee on Agriculture to the re-session of the government draft law amending the law... [[What?]] [[And it's jammed.]] ...on payments under the direct support system contained in the committee's report, print No 911, over which yesterday, i.e. On 20 October 2016, the Committee on Agriculture debated, which, when voting against incorrect and incorrect statements by Undersecretary Richard Zarudzki, rejected the amendment tabled by the Civic Platform. Undersecretary of State Mr Ryszard Zarudzki stated the validity and substance of this amendment in its basic practical application. Ba, go on, personally, as well as with Minister Jurgel with the help of the so-called. The speedy omnibus path will make an effort to implement its meaning in life. However, this amendment cannot be positive, in his view, recommended, because its adoption, firstly, does not fit into the wording of the amendment of the Act of 5 February 2015 on direct support payments, which the government makes, which is not true, because [[Joy in the Chamber]] the government in its draft law amends the wording of the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 [[♪ The bell ♪]] that bill. The amendment amends the wording of the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act, i.e. it concerns the same article. Its adoption would reduce the payment of labour costs for employees in 119 plants, including companies of the State Treasury. In addition, the Under-Secretary of State stated that Regulation No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament of 17 December had no binding force, meaning that it was invalid. I checked with the lawyers...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u7	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u8	...and the Legislative Bureau. That's not true...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u9	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u10	...this document is legally valid.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u11	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u12	Mr. Marshal, please be patient, just a little bit more. You're welcome. [[Voices from the hall: There is no room!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u13	Thank you, sir, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u14	As a result, misdirected...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u15	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u16	...a man...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u17	You're out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u18	...they voted badly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u19	Thank you very much. The committee's rapporteur for this bill is Mr Piotr Polak. It would have to be explained here. Is the government representative... Minister Zarudzki, right? [[Well, let's take it off.]] Minister Jurgiel? There you go. Minister Jurgiel, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, will explain the matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not know how this amendment was presented. If the committee considered it, she's sovereign, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] there will be a vote of this bill and then, perhaps, you will have to ask a question to... I now do not know the content of this amendment, which was submitted by the Platform. If I look into it, we'll explain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u21	So I understand that, perhaps, during the vote on the amendments to this bill, the Minister proposes that we go back to that, yes? Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: Mr. Marshal! I would like to ask: In what way does Mr Aichler want to consider here one of the amendments that thousands of people make during different committees? There is a committee, there is a rapporteur, and I think that if there is an amendment, this will be clarified, and a representative of the government will take a stand, but now I have to get acquainted with it. [[And the Minister of Agriculture isn't in the government?]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, under Article. Paragraph 184. Point 3 (6) is a formal request for referral to the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask... [[It's against the law.]] Excuse me, sir, please take your seat and don't make a fuss here. ...the rapporteur of the committee or the authorised minister, whether it is true or not, can you confirm this because the Member claims that there have been irregularities in the work of the committee. Mr President, rapporteur. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! These allegations made by Mr Ajchler against the committee are, in my opinion, inadmissible. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, this amendment did not find recognition. The subject was explained by Minister Zarudzki. And the question of these allegations that you are making to Minister Zarudzki, I think he should explain to Minister Zarudzki himself. At this stage, Mr. Marshal, I think this discussion is pointless at this point. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u23	Thank you very much. Except, ladies and gentlemen, the rules of procedure clearly state that the application has been submitted correctly. This is a valid proposal that I will have to put to the vote. I would like to inform the High House that, in connection with the formal request to refer the draft law to the committee, I will put this request to the vote. We're already in the middle of a vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of referring to the draft committee, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 179 voted against - 232, 18 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of the 10th anniversary of the death of Marek Grechuta (prints No. 940 and 941). Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Elżbieta Kruk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 20 October, the Committee on Culture and Media discussed a draft resolution on Mark Grechuty's commemoration on the 10th anniversary of his death. The applicants were represented by Barbara Dziuk. The Commission unanimously adopted the draft resolution in the following wording...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u25	Excuse me, miss. If you don't mind, I'll ask the High House to rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u26	Resolution of the Polish Parliament on the commemoration of Marek Grechuty on the 10th anniversary of death. On October 2016, the 10th anniversary of the death of Marek Grechuty, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the great artist, poet, vocalist, composer, painter, songwriter and poet. Marek Grechuta was one of the most outstanding personalities of the Polish music scene. He created against the prevailing musical and literary fashions. His works have remained timeless for more than half a century. As a iconic performer of poetry sung in the consciousness of the next Poles, he remains an exceptional artist. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, appreciating the merits of the artist and his huge contribution to the development of Polish culture, pays tribute to his memory. [[Applause]] I understand that the High House has adopted a resolution by acclamation. However, it remained for me to formally bring it to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u27	Thank you, Member. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of Mark Grechuty on the 10th anniversary of his death. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. We proceed to the third reading. The additional report shall be in print No 885-A. I ask Mr John Duda to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present an additional report on the draft parliamentary law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. At its 28th meeting on 19 October, the Sejm referred the draft law in print No 885 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to reconsider the amendments tabled by parliamentary clubs at second reading. Amendment 1 was tabled by the club of the Polish People's Party and concerned an amendment to the article. 19 - a new mouth sound. 2a - the Act of 20 December 1990 on social security for farmers. The Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice has tabled three amendments, Nos 2, 3 and 4, concerning: in the case of Amendment No 2 the duration of the existing implementing provisions - not more than 6 months after the entry into force of the Act, Amendment No 3 - the addition of an article. 3 regulating employment relations in the positions of directors, managers and their alternates in the KRUS pursuant to the Labour Code Act of 26 June 1974 and Amendment No 4 - that consequently Article. 3 becomes Article. 4. The joint committees, after a joint meeting on 20 October, shall, after considering the amendments, request the rejection of Amendment 1 and the adoption of Amendments 2, 3 and 4. Well, here you go. The High Chamber, on behalf of the Joint Committees, on the adoption of the draft law in print No 885, together with the amendments adopted. The additional report of the joint committees is contained in print 885-A. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u29	There you go. At the same time, I inform the High House that, although we are talking about agricultural matters, we are currently listening to young people from the High School of Education. The Sniadecki brothers in Zgorzelec, the famous Zgorzelec over Nysa Łużycka. Welcome. [[Applause]] As we have heard in the rapporteur's recommendation, we will vote on the amendments first. In the first amendment to Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a The Act on Social Insurance for Farmers proposes to extend the possibility of agricultural retirement by 5 years under the conditions set out in paragraph 1. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party. One minute is enough, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u30	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! A few months ago, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party sent a draft bill to the High House to enable farmers to retire on existing terms, i.e. at the age of 55 and 60 years old men. Somehow this project had its first reading, unfortunately it was frozen. A subcommittee was set up so that this project would not see the light of day, because it never once gathered. Therefore, on the occasion of the amendment of the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers, we reiterate this call, repeat the request, and that is the amendment. We want Polish farmers to be able to retire at the age of 55 and 60 due to the difficult nature of the work done, but also the need to make changes in the Polish countryside. I have a question for Members of Law and Justice: Why did they vote against this amendment at the committee's meeting while recommending raising the retirement age for Polish farmers [[♪ The bell ♪]] up to the age of 65 in the presidential project. I ask you to change this position and support this amendment. She is good for Polish agriculture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u31	Thank you. Unfortunately, I cannot accept this question because there is no such formula: to ask a Member of the Law and Justice. You can ask the rapporteur of the committee or the representative of the government. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 62 voted against - 336, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2 of the draft law amending the applicants propose that certain implementing provisions to date be in force not more than 6 months after the date of entry into force of the amendment. The committees are asking for an amendment. The question is raised by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Last year, the election campaign of Law and Justice took place largely in the countryside in Polish farmers' farms. Today, many of these farmers are astonished by their eyes when more ideas are being given to them, which are at odds with their interests. Raising the retirement age is one of these ideas. [[Who's talking?]] I wanted to address the applicant with such a question: Isn't it a bit like the time of Władysław Gomulak, that the Polish farmer was praised and then served mandatory deliveries? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Who raised the retirement age?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u33	The applicants for this parliamentary bill are represented by Mr Robert Telus. And, of course, you'd like to speak, wouldn't you? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I in the place of Members of the Polish People's Party I'd be embarrassed tonight. How can you be such a big hypocrite? [[Applause]] How can you play politics in the country like that? After all, this is an act against Polish agriculture. It's you, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, and the Civic Platform, you've raised your retirement age. It's you, ladies and gentlemen... [[Don't wave a finger.]] ... You have raised the retirement age of women in the countryside - note - by 12 years. Don't be ashamed of yourselves today. it's playing, doing politics like this - you've raised your retirement age, and today you want to be so good? Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There is a presidential bill and law and justice will improve this misdirection of yours in due course. [[Oh, Jesus, God forbid those corrections.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u35	There you go. Of course, this expression: it ignited with shame, I understand as: it burned with blush, in that sense. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I see. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 268 votes against - 164, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 3 of the draft law amending the applicant proposes a transitional provision concerning the employment relations of the former managers of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. Amendment 4 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 235 voted against - 197, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Before that, the Members of the Committee of the Regions had asked questions. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Members of the Law and Justice should burn with shame or at least blush. [[Applause]] In fact, you rejected the amendment to this law, which would cause farmers to retire on existing terms, and in the presidential project you propose to increase this age by 15 years for women and 10 years for men. [[Joy in the courtroom, applause.]] I'd like to say that this is a hypocrisy of the fact that under the motto of reducing the retirement age, you're actually raising it. In this bill, apart from that mistake you don't want to straighten out with our hands, all you do is make personal changes in the Social Insurance Agricultural Fund. You're already throwing people out today, not just those who have been employed in the past 5 and 10 years, but you're throwing people out who've been employed in the past 20 years. This bill is personal. But in this bill, fortunately, you've done something good, which means you're continuing what we did in the previous term, namely you're giving farmers the opportunity to make money, work without having to go to the plant. Social insurance [[♪ The bell ♪]] And stay in KRUS. Only for this reason, looking at your hypocrisy, but we will support this bill. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u37	Thank you. Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is intended to help farmers develop their non-agricultural activities, but for this to happen, we need a good law on the sale of food by farmers. And here I would like to say about the project Kukiz.15, which already entered the Marshal's staff a few months ago. I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, if the Ministry of Agriculture will support this law on the sale of food by farmers. Because the changes in the KRUS itself and the release of this trade for farmers are not enough. In order for Polish healthy food to reach Polish tables in order to compete with Western corporations, this law must enter into force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u39	Please. Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The bill we're investigating contains good and bad records. The good ones are the continuation of the Platform's policy of acting... [[Voice from the room: and PSL.]] ...in the interests of farmers so that they can increase their employment outside agriculture. On the other hand, the article. 60, ladies and gentlemen, this is a continuation of the fatal policy of the PiS, a fatal policy for the state's ownership. This time you're hitting KRUS. You've already taken out 80 of KRUS executives. You're still cleaning up. Today you are looking for a place for your Pisiewicz. Ladies and gentlemen, today, this provision in the bill is the result of the repair of your legal sloppyness, because the first persons who have been released from the CRUS are filing complaints and winning. Luckily, you haven't destroyed the courts yet, and those judgments are here. Ladies and gentlemen, early [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish People's Republic created the personality of the so-called. citizen Piszczyk, you created the personality of citizen Pisiewicz. [[Applause]] The question is, how much longer are you going to destroy this country? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u41	Thank you, sir. Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill only helps about 2,000. Whereas farmers, in fact, open a wide field for further positions for your loyal, faithful one only ideology of Misiewicz. Competency is not important, opportunities are not important - it is important that they be loyal to your employees. This bill is nothing more than a simple jump to the tables, that's taking over another piece of the state. We can't agree with the fact that you've put your hands on the Treasury companies, it doesn't matter to you. Now, one step at a time, you're destroying the public administration. [[We fix, you destroy.]] Where it requires a revision of the bill, you do it by amending the bill, and where necessary, you did it by ordinary regulations. The end of your arrogance. Therefore, the Modern will not support this law. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u43	Thank you. Mr President, such words: jumping companies, paws on companies, jumping on... What's that... Does that have to be addressed? Let's not overreact. No, I'm so sorry, sir. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 885, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. There were 397 votes against - 35, 5 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. We would like to return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Social Policy and Family Committee on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 884. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 884, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 898-A. I ask Mrs Teresa Glenc to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u44	At its 28th meeting, held on 19 October 2016, the Sejm was held in accordance with Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 898 to the Health Committee in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. At the meeting of the Health Committee on 20 October this year. two amendments have been tabled. Amendment 1 concerned Article. 14a, she talked about reducing to 1 year the period referred to in this provision. On the other hand, the second amendment proposes an increase in the basic salary of the monthly resident doctor. In the course of the vote, the majority of the Health Committee rejected the amendments tabled. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u45	Please. We will vote on these amendments first. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 containing amendments to the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist. In the first amendment to Article. 14a in the added mouth. 10b applicants shall propose to reduce the period referred to in that provision to 1 year. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. Questions are raised by Members. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! We are dealing with a specific situation here. We are in favour of disclosure of public life, for disclosure of documentation which is subject to this disclosure, and here we suddenly have a puriazum, we try to keep secret the examination questions for young doctors and doctors specializing in the next field, for an unknown reason. All the environments, both medical and legal, advocated that the clearness of questions serves to improve the preparation of students and doctors for their specialization activities. What is the health resort really afraid of, that instead of making the questions public as soon as possible, giving the opportunity to better prepare itself to the applicant, it blocks and secretes these questions? After all, these questions in a specific way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're coming out, so let's legalize it under normal conditions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u47	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u48	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On the question, I would like to quote the High House: Doctors should earn very well, well for young people, and very well for those experienced who are already doctors in the whole sense. I know that because it's a very difficult, very responsible profession to prepare for, and we respect that. Minister of Health, do you know who said that? Yes, yes, that is what Mr Kaczyński said. [[Applause]] Minister of Health, when will your resort finally start to keep up with the PiS leader and ensure a decent wage for young doctors and interns? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u49	Thank you. This question was definitely not on the subject, Mr President, not on the subject of this amendment. [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] We therefore proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 198 voted against - 233, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 16j paragraph. 3 applicants propose to increase the basic salary of the monthly resident doctor. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Members. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Macierewicz, Minister Błaszczak, Minister Ziobro took care of their employees and raised their wages. That's about 200,000. People. Glory be to them. It belonged to me. The government says: invest in Poland, in Polish companies. What do you think, or not the biggest investment is people? Why do you not want to invest in Polish young doctors resident? We all know that after doing a specialty on those salaries they receive, residents will be going abroad in a moment and they will not really stay in Poland. Please invest in Polish doctors to stay in our country. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Vote!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u51	The word 'please' can be understood as 'or', so will you invest, yes? Thank you very much. Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Our amendment, the amendment of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, concerns an increase in the remuneration of residents, doctors of residents. Everyone in the Health Committee agreed that resident doctors now have an embarrassingly low salary. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you can come up with no idea what reforms of teaching in health care, spend a lot of money on it, but if you do not give the green light in the form of pay for doctors resident, all your activities will be in vain, because doctors will carry out not in Poland but abroad. Therefore, we as a Kukiz club15 give a clear signal to the young generation, a green light: stay in Poland, we appreciate your work and we want to pay you as you deserve. Light the green light for young people in Poland so that they stay in Poland and not go abroad. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u53	I didn't hear the question either. Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If we want to keep young medical staff in Poland, we must take care of their dignity, also their financial dignity, because it is impossible to maintain the family only with professional ethos, work ethos. A year ago, a week before the election, I had the pleasure of participating in the health market debate with the current Minister Konstanty Radziwiłłł. Unmistakably then he said: the minimum wage for the resident is at least 100% national average. And so I ask, when? I don't think it was in 2025, because then we'll have no one to pay this national average. The majority of Members sitting on this side of the Chamber, particularly Members of the Civic Platform, are in favour of us finally giving decent wages to residents, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because they've fallen dramatically in the last year. [[Applause]] [[You were eight years old. Eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u55	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 197, against - 224, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question is asked by Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Before I ask you a question that I am going to pass on to the Minister of Health, I would like to quote a brief quote from the annex to the resolution of the General Medical Council, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's not from the last eight years, it's from ten years ago. The Act of 5 December 1996 on competitions for doctors and dentists is amended as follows: the remuneration of a doctor and dentist employed in a health care establishment is a multiple of the average monthly gross wage in the enterprise sector. This is to be the case: at least 2 times the salary for a non-specialized doctor and dentist, at least 2,5 times the salary for a dentist and a doctor with a first degree and at least 3 times the salary for a specialist doctor. This resolution was signed by the then President of the General Medical Council by Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł, which is why I have [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question to the Minister is why he doesn't keep his word. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u57	Thank you. Are you ready to answer the question, Minister? The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Jarosław Pinkas, will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. Thank you very much for your concern about my younger colleagues, who, I think, have important prospects in Poland for working for Polish patients. The health resort is working on solutions for post-graduate education, i.e. giving a chance to gain specialization in good, well-defined conditions under the guidance of smart teachers. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say to you, I think that you have such knowledge, especially Mr Ruciński, that the public consultation is a draft law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical entities. We have a problem solving comprehensively, we can't just solve the problem of resident doctors, interns doctors or the youngest doctors. Low wages in health care, Mr. Nurses, paramedics, actually all health professionals. [[Applause]] We're dealing with a comprehensive solution to this case. Please take part in external consultations and proceed with this law in the Sejm for the benefit of patients above all, because it is for them that law, because the implications of good earnings in healthcare are patients who have the highest level of benefits. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u59	There you go. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 898 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 279 voted against - 153, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on the Competitions of a Doctor and a Dentist and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Act on Individual Income Tax. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 794. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 794 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. There were 395 votes against - 3 and 32 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes. The additional committee report shall be in print No 911-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! During the second reading of 19 October here in the House, one amendment was tabled, which, Mr Marshal, was asked at the beginning of today's vote. This amendment was considered and received a negative opinion. We recommend that this amendment be rejected during the vote. Minister Zarudzki, present at the committee meeting, explained the matter extensively. I think the Member understood this explanation by the Minister. A few words of explanation should be made to the High House. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns a narrow group of beneficiaries, it would benefit, if I remember correctly, probably about 100 entities in Poland. [[120.]] Exactly 120. These are, High Izbo, those entities that carry out economic activity, agricultural production on large areas, several thousand hectares. Most of them these are cooperatives or other entities, companies, but there are also private entities. That is why, Mr President, I am addressing the Member who tabled this amendment, and I think it is a scandal that you have tabled this amendment, because, as I recall, you are personally interested in this because you do this. [[Applause]] [[Oh...]] Therefore, you should exclude yourself from this procedure in committee. It's not like that. I'm sorry it happened. I think that such procedures, such precedents, should not take place during the proceedings, here, in the plenary room or at committee meetings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u61	I would ask you not to comment on the committee's report, but to present the committee's report. The Commission calls for adoption, as we have heard. We will vote on the amendment first. In the amendment to the article. 19 the Act on payments under direct support schemes of the applicant in the new wording of paragraph 1. 1 propose a provision to reduce the reduction in the calculation of the area payment in a given calendar year. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur tells heresy not from this land, which does not take place. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I don't really grow up to the amounts we're talking about here when it comes to my natural person, that's unbelievable bullshit. The rapporteur does not know the issue, the matter, and that is why, for the third time, he is telling nonsense. The point here is that the bets he was talking about exactly 119 bets were hit by this, they did not receive any subsidies at all, 100%. It is a reduction in our solutions, a reduction in labour costs. All provisions contained in the Platform's amendment are contained in the European Union's legislation as a standard. Minister Jurgiel supports this element in television interviews. This is in the interpellations of my person. Minister Zarudzki has misled us. The Commission decided by mistake that the rules [[♪ The bell ♪]] The European Union is inappropriate for not being adequate. Everything's okay. Mr. Zarudzki misled the committee, which is why the committee took the wrong decision in ignorance. [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u63	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u64	You're the minister. [[He's here in the first bench.]] I think he's gonna respond to that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u65	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u66	Even Deputy Minister Zarudzki responded positively to the merits of the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u67	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u68	...positive, but from a legal point of view...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u69	We'll proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u70	...he's a loser because he doesn't know.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u71	Thank you very much, sir. [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: I will explain.]] But we're already voting. You'd like to... Mr Jurgel, Krzysztof Jurgel, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, I think this motion... [[But in the microphone.]] ...which you put to the vote at the beginning, should be submitted now, possibly at this point, because in this way we can submit proposals to any law at the beginning. But I will explain to you what you explained yesterday to Minister Zarudzki on the committee. You weren't in your previous term. In July 2004, i.e. the PO-PSL government... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: In 2004? No.]] ... Poland has notified the implementation of the reduction mechanism, informing the European Commission that degressivity will consist in a 100% reduction in the single area payment surplus over 150 000 the euro and that the basis for the reduction will not be reduced by the cost of employment. As a rule, the Minister of Agriculture shares the view that deduction of labour costs from the basis for reduction would be a solution better suited to the conditions in Poland. As a result, I have made efforts in the European Union to amend the rules in this area, as it is not possible for the Member State to change the way in which the reduction mechanism is implemented. Any change in the amounts to be obtained as a result of the application of the reduction mechanism would entail the need to amend the annexes to the financial envelopes contained in the two Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council - 1305/2013 and 1307/2013 - relating to direct support. Given that the reduction measures have already been transferred to Pillar II - I recall, it was PLN 2400 million - and included in the Rural Development Programme, it would also be necessary to change the system itself. Until appropriate changes to European Union legislation are made, it is not possible to change the principle of degressivity in Poland. For this reason, the amendment you proposed could not be accepted because it would be contrary to European Union law. As I have already informed you, the Minister for Agriculture has taken steps to change the way in which the reduction mechanism applied in Poland is implemented. In a letter to the Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development, he announced his intention to introduce the principle of deduction of employment costs from the basis for reduction. This would allow the social effects of this instrument to be taken into account and reduce its restrictiveness, inter alia. for collective entities such as agricultural cooperatives or breeding holdings. We were particularly concerned with 43 companies of the Agricultural Property Agency, which because in 2014 the coalition deprived them of these funds are in financial difficulties. Such a solution would also help to maintain or even increase employment in large-scale farms, most of which are located in areas after former enterprises, state-owned farms, where there is territorial cumulation of social problems. In the course of further correspondence, the European Commission has presented to us the view that, in the current legal state, it is not possible for a Member State to make such a change, in particular because such a change would have to entail a reduction in the resources allocated to the RDPs. In view of the above, the European Commission's position that it is not possible to amend the reduction decision in the current legal state, the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has proposed to amend Regulation 1307 as part of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework, proposing a provision that would clearly allow Member States to revise the decision on the reduction mechanism. This proposal will be made at the stage of further work on Parliament's draft regulation, so-called. omnibus. So that, sir, I think you should apologize to the Minister, and then we would be fine. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u73	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 149 votes against - 249, 32 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. But the questions have been raised by Members. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This Law of the PiS, the Government of the PiS eliminates raspberry subsidies [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] for producers of raspberries associated with a difficult situation. This mechanism was fought several years ago against huge, huge protests caused by the crisis in the soft fruit market. This mechanism was introduced in the European Union exceptionally, because during a period already programmed, at a time when the rules of the common agricultural policy were established. This mechanism has regulated this market very well over the last few years. These were subsidies at the level of approx. 400 EUR to 1 ha. This mechanism resulted in support for those who were participants in the reference year because of the difficult market situation. You're throwing this mechanism away, and you're gonna lead to a disregulation of this market. It is not only that producers, especially from Lublin, will not receive these subsidies. First of all, this will cause that there will be no regulation instrument in the raspberry market and the first crisis that will come up, and he will, you will have to deal with [[♪ The bell ♪]] with huge protests from farmers. Get out of this idea while there's still time, direct this bill to work again in committee, restore it, leave the raspberry aid mechanism behind. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u75	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I'd like to apologize to your Undersecretary of State if you're right. But if I'm at the Legal Office, if I have the opinion of a law firm, lawyers, that you're not right, that why make a European rule if it's working... You say it yourself. You people misinterpreted this bill, misinterpreted it, reported it... [[Oh, my God.]] You misled me at the committee meeting yesterday at the committee meeting, so I have nothing to apologize for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's so embarrassing. It's so embarrassing.]] [[You can't be misled.]] [[Voice from the room: Raspberry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u77	There you go. The case has been cleared up. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 911, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 412 against - 16, with three abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes. We return to the review of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on amending the excise duty law. We proceed to the third reading. [[Formal conclusion.]] The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 902. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 902, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the excise duty law unanimously. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930, adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 848. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 848 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930, adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014. We return to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on government drafts of laws amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 927. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 927, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm passed a law amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 918-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Arthur to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u78	High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. During the second reading of the project, four amendments were tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning the definition of the railway road, the obligations of railway infrastructure managers, the scope of safety authorisation and the content of Annex 2. Yesterday, i.e. On 20 October 2016, the Committee on Infrastructure adopted all four amendments at its meeting. On behalf of the committee, I request that the draft law, together with the amendments, be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u79	Thank you very much. We will vote on these amendments first. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the Rail Transport Act. In Amendment 1. to Article. 4 (1a) applicants shall propose a different definition of the railway road. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 5 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a and paragraph 1a. 2c and give a new wording to paragraph. 2a. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 17d applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to Annex 2 paragraph. 3 point 1 of the draft amending act propose to add a new wording to the text of point 1. a. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 433, against - 1, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question is put by Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law will completely open up the rail market. On Tuesday, the European Parliament Committee on Transport and Tourism approved the so-called. the technical part of the fourth railway package. I therefore have a question for the Minister: What are the transition periods for the technical part of the package and what are the transition periods for the political part in which the public services are?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u81	Thank you very much. The answer to this question is the appointed Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Andrzej Bittel. Minister Kazimierz Smolinski, please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! This has not yet been accepted by the committee. Once it's accepted, it'll be in effect. For now, it's at the procession stage. As it will be accepted, we will wonder whether it is then introduced in Polish legislation or not. It's too early for today. We must therefore adopt the content of this law as it is. [[Voice from the room: Speak clearly, we do not understand anything.]] I'm clearly saying that for today it's...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u83	The Minister has made it clear that the decision has not yet been made, so it is difficult to respond to a decision that is not there. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[It's not working.]] What's not working? [[Because there's no vote yet.]] Excuse me, folks, it's not working because we haven't started yet. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We're starting now. [[Voices from the O.R.: It's working.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 918, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. [[It worked.]] We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the parliamentary draft law on National Tax Administration. The additional committee report shall be in print No 925-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The Public Finance Commission at its meeting on 20 October considered the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. In the vote, the committee rejected the proposal. The Commission also considered 37 amendments tabled during the second reading of this draft law. Six amendments were accepted by the committee, 31 amendments were rejected by the committee. The Commission recommends adopting this draft law together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u85	There you go. As we have heard, the committee requests the adoption of a draft law from print No. 925. We will vote on the amendments that it puts forward in the additional report and the proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety. We'll start with the motion. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. At this point, Members of the House are asking questions. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject of this law is the fundamental reform of tax collection in Poland. This reform concerns 65 000. employees of both the fiscal and customs equipment, their families, but also many millions of entrepreneurs, as well as many, tens of millions, because almost all Poles, taxpayers of this tax, were prepared only legal bubel. [[As always...]] Several hundred amendments were made to this project. Hence, even the Members of the applicant argued that we are dealing with a different project at all. It's nothing more than bringing chaos again, this time to the tax administration, to the customs administration. This is a bad bill, which is why we're asking you to reject this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's all there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u87	Thank you. Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It's actually a very important, important system project. But this system project was submitted by a group of Members. This is a project for which there is no impact assessment, and there was no consultation on it. What a joke is what we heard in the Minister's mouth that the consultations were held 10 years ago. By the way, it was a completely different project back then. Several hundred amendments were tabled during the session of the subcommittee which examined the draft. No one can count how many legislative amendments have been tabled by the Legislative Bureau. At second reading, several dozen amendments. This really isn't a good project. This is a project that will bring chaos to public administration, and its effects will be counterproductive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u89	Please. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am speaking because I still have the rest of my hope of stopping the proposed revolution in customs and treasure services. Projects put forward in the Sejm, not by the government, but by the PiS Members, are unprepared, without analysis and rational justification. They're missing the point of increasing tax collection. They'll bring chaos and organizational mess. During the work to date in the Sejm, the authors submitted 90 pages of self-corrections and 40 pages of auto-corrections. But my goal isn't to get mad at these projects. I'd like to ask you, once again, to ask the authors of the project: don't put the Customs Service in an elegant single bag. Don't civilize them, don't degrade their grades. The Customs Service that has been operating in Poland so far is a very professional, modern formation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was reformed, it's perfectly equipped. This is how customs services operate in Germany, France and Canada. Don't spoil this very well-functioning institution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u91	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u92	I have a question. If you're deaf to these rational arguments, I have a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u93	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u94	Whether these are just further HR projects to exempt 65 thousand from the law. People? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u95	Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Reform of the Polish tax system and reform of the Polish tax system are necessary, necessary and actions towards this reform are appropriate. On the other hand, concrete actions, which include: it has been made by this law, but it is unfortunately not possible. It's a problem that something needs to be done, we're doing the wrong thing. However, I would suggest that we slow down a bit and take care of this so that we have an excellent fiscal apparatus, because it is very necessary for this country to exist. We must have well-educated, well-targeted workers with a high level of social respect. We need statemen. In order to do so, we need to make the right law for them, not to throw them out of work, because in fact this is what we propose in these regulations. Therefore, I would very much like to ask for reflection, to return to working on these projects and to draw up a good law that will strengthen our fiscal apparatus. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u97	Please. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Mr Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u98	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant's representative. Is it true that false invoices for about PLN 80 billion were revealed in 2015 alone, as reported by the Supreme Audit Chamber? Is it true that in 2014 it did not reach the state's cash register What's the fourth VAT dollar due? [[Applause]] Is it true that our country is among the worst dealing with this problem in the European Union? Luka, when it comes to extortion, has increased from less than 8% during the reign of the previous government. up to 25% with an average of approximately 15% . [[Applause]] Is it true that for the amount we lost, we could build 1269 km of highways... [[I'm sure.]] ...or buy 187 F16 planes... [[And what else?]] ...to build 6625 kindergartens? [[Applause]] Is it true that the adoption of this project will help to prevent such practices more effectively? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You're repeating yourself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u99	Thank you very much. We'll proceed to the vote... Mr Łukasz Schreiber, a representative of the applicants, wanted to speak. [[Like what?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were many words from opposition representatives here, words were made about the fact that everything was actually fine and that we should even be happy about it. As for the questions that have been asked, everything that Mr Zubowski has asked is true. But there's more. The European Commission has not only pointed out, like other institutions, a sharp rise in the VAT gap, actually with 10% up to 25%. She also pointed to the poor performance of the services and the poor performance of the tax services. In Poland, the downloadability of the contested invoices is at 1,3%. It is also true that in 2015 the VAT gap was already 3% GDP. It is true that in Poland the grey zone is already, according to various calculations, 20 The truth is, you didn't have any idea to change this situation. The truth is that we have not heard any alternative plan from the opposition. [[A voice from the room: No!]] You could say that all these numbers are the numbers of shame and infirmity. [[Applause]] Today, High Izbo, we have the end of the theoretical state. The changes we have already made, in VAT and other taxes, make it more than 9 billion more in the first half of the year, and the plans for next year are to reach 15.4% as regards the achievement of the level of tax participation in gross domestic product. In your reign, he fell by 4%. That's what it looks like. One might ask: Is today's criticism of this project a defence of the state of affairs, a defence of the achievements we have heard about? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You answer the question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u101	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 187 votes against - 239, 10 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose the title of the Act to give the wording of the National Tax Administration. Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is raised by Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The real purpose of the National Tax Administration Act is to own the tax administration by PiS. In fact, it is an unprecedented politicisation of this administration. You are resigning from the competitions for executive positions, which in practice means that the heads of tax offices, customs offices, tax administrations will be appointed from the political key. The next step is to verify all employees. In this context, the title of the Act, i.e. the Act on National Tax Administration, does not give its content, hence the proposal to change its name to the National Tax Administration, so that it is known whose it is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u103	There you go. You have the floor of Artur Soboń, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Until 1990 we had a state administration in Poland. After 990 we have public administration, with a clear distinction between government administration and local government administration. Today, the Civic Platform proposes the establishment of a national administration. I understand it's just to make it fun. But when the amendment is tabled, this amendment can theoretically pass in the vote. So I have a question for the applicants. [[There's no such thing.]] If this amendment were passed, will there be a proposal from the Civic Platform to the self-government laws at the next meeting of the Sejm to replace the councils of municipalities, powiats and voivodships with national councils? Because that would be the consequence of your proposal today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u105	I have to say, it's a crazy hard question. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It relates to the situation after the year 990. [[Voice from the room: 1990.]] At that time, Princess Dobrava was probably just coming from Hradczan to Poland. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The town hasn't been baptized yet. And now the question to the applicants for a request, for a proposal from the Platform. [[That's interesting.]] That's very interesting indeed. No, sir, I cannot imagine that this question can be answered. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 190 votes against - 238 and 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 2 13. Amendments 5 to 7, 9, 10, 12 to 17, 19 and 36. We will vote on them together. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 8, 11 and 18. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 167 voted against - 263, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose inter alia. in point 6, a person with at least five years of service or work shall be appointed as Director of National Tax Information. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Amendments 11 and 18 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 8, 11 and 18 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 309, against - 7, with 117 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 20th amendment to the article. 47 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2 and the addition of paragraph 2. 10 and 11. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 164 voted against - 261, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. 48 (1) (a) 1 applicants propose, inter alia, delete the words "or tax offences'. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 165 voted against - 271, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 57. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 162 voted against - 273, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 23rd amendment to the article. 61 By adding the second sentence, the applicants propose that evidence be conducted in such a way as to enable a controlled entity to participate actively in the activities carried out and not to interfere with its normal functioning. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 168 votes against - 238 and 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 24th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 165 voted against - 236, with 31 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 25th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 63. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 163 against - 240, with 32 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 26th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraphs 8 to 11 in Article. 64. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 57 Members voted against - 268, with 107 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 65a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 391 against - 43, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 28th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 76. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 51 voted against - 267, with 110 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 29th amendment to the article. Article 82 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 applicants shall propose that the appeal referred to in that provision be lodged with the Director of the tax administration. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 166 voted against - 271, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 30th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 115. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 165 votes against - 271, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 31st amendment, the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 11 118. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 392 against - 43, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 32nd amendment, applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 6 130. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 32nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 247 voted against - 45, with 146 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 33rd amendment, the applicants propose in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 add the joint part and add paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 33rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 44, against 275 Members, with 112 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 34th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. The applicant shall The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 199, against 233, and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 35th amendment, the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph. In Article 9, the following paragraph is added: 206. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 35th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 351, against - 48, with 30 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question is raised by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club. [[The voice from the hall: God...]] [[How's the treasurer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, No one denies the need to reform the tax administration, but you want to apply the same methods to taxpayers as to criminals. In the process of tax and customs control, all you see is the money you need to raise to next year's budget, not people. Not the recovery of the economy by healthy legislation, but repression is your way of success. You place a sign of equality between entrepreneurs and criminals and persons who have committed, intentionally or not, offences. These are the methods from the previous era. The bill gives you a number of opportunities for abuse, and if it happens, you will be responsible for it. But this bill is also an opportunity for you to jump again. You didn't understand anything about criticism. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the policy of the Miesiewicz method. This is also the case with the National Tax Administration. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Not everyone has Misiewicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u107	It was a speech. It wasn't a question. Thank you, Member. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 925, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 241 against - 189, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm passed the National Tax Administration Act. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Parliamentary draft law Rules introducing the Act on National Tax Administration. The additional committee report shall be in print No 926-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Public Finance Commission at its meeting on 20 October considered the proposal to reject the draft Law Rules introducing the National Tax Administration Act. In the vote, the committee rejected the proposal. In addition, the committee examined 20 amendments: 3 amendments the committee voted, 17 amendments the committee rejected. In recapitulating, the Public Finance Commission proposes and recommends to the High House the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u109	There you go. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The Commission, I remind you, requests that this proposal be rejected. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that we are dealing only with laws, which are a typical staff, i.e. laws which are to introduce Misiewicz into the tax administration, convinces us that the law introducing the law on the National Tax Administration, because under the provisions of this law of verification will be subject to 65 thousand. employees of both the fiscal and customs equipment. Moreover, directors and governors will have full discretion as to who they will have another relationship with and who they will not. So it is important to support only our own, not the welfare of taxpayers, not the welfare of Poland. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, workers who do not receive an extension of their employment relationships as a result of your verification will be deprived of any possibility of appealing to independent bodies, including independent and independent courts. It's an outrageous bill, which is why we're asking you to reject it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u111	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u112	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is worth repeating once again that this is a staff law concerning 65 thousand. employed people that this is a bill of paper, because it introduces 88 regulations, and no government has prepared to this day that this is a bad bill, because it introduces a thousand amendments. And now a test for this country's reliability and for what you want to do: Is it true that the government is really about a new structure and not about keeping 65,000 employees in uncertainty today. people, and in the future, about hiring just your own? Could the transformation of the administrative structure be carried out while maintaining workers' rights? We've made these adjustments, and it's gonna be a test, a government check. Is it true, as the Members of the PiS say, that you will get money from the tax gap? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much is that gonna be? Test, check that next year this 40 billion PLN will enter the budget. This is a bet with the Minister to show you if you really want the stools or if you really want the functioning of the state apparatus. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u113	Minister Banas is ready. [[Applause]] Minister Marian Banaś, Deputy Minister of Public Finance. I'd just ask you not to refer to the terms: jumping to stools, what's up, cool, etc., because it's the wrong language. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Members and Messengers! You criticize this bill, you think it's wrong. You want to see a blade in our eyes that's not there, but you have a beam in your own eyes and you just don't see what's been going on for the last eight years. [[Applause]] [[But concentrate on yourself.]] I just want to remind you, gentlemen, that I will not say this again, that 80 billion is a tax gap, that enforcement claims have increased - 65 billion. [[You guys rock a year.]] And one more case I mentioned here yesterday, but I want to repeat it again. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you have come to me, an entrepreneur who says this: Minister, I will commit suicide if you don't help me. What happened? Well, I was an entrepreneur in the field of transport, I was taking fuel from tanks that were legally active. And what did it turn out to be? All the state services knew about this, the tax authorities, Customs, the police, the courts and the prosecutor's office. And after eight years of the company's operations, which ended, excise and tax duties, VAT, were charged to the lady. Nobody cared about that company. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this proves that those services were not working properly, that today, in a situation like this lady, there are thousands of entrepreneurs, because this is not the only case. [[And the customs will thank you.]] This is, ladies and gentlemen, 30 billion debts that we will never recover, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] a These people will be ruined. This is an inheritance. After you... [[Yes, sir.]] ...after those services that didn't work properly... [[But you've been in charge for a year. Take care of it.]] ...which, ladies and gentlemen, did not share information, so that the fuel mafia could act with impunity, the activities of organised crime groups could be carried out with impunity. [[Applause]] [[But what are you talking about?]] You're saying, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to treat the workers badly. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the years 2005-2007, when I was also privileged to perform this function when I resigned and left the ministry, then, ladies and gentlemen, all our employees, directors, governors were released. And where are we talking about politicising? Who politicized tax and customs and workers? [[There's just been a depoliticization.]] We will be guided by the competence of these people and the integrity of these people. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the room: No!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we guarantee that there will be room for competent and honest people in these services. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Teddy bear!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, second thing. There haven't been any raises in eight years. Who gave the workers a raise? [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: 8 years! Eight years!]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you another example from my backyard. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I've been overseeing the construction of highways. And what happened? Ladies and gentlemen, 36 companies have gone bankrupt because of this gentleman who's building a highway in Ukraine today. I wish the Ukrainians all the best if they have such highway builders. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u115	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 191 voted against - 225, 6 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose the title of the Act to give the wording of the Act to introduce the Act on National Tax Administration. Amendments 2 and 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is raised by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Banaś had just had a very flowery speech, and the Minister did not say that what he was talking about was not changed at all in this bill. Solid liability for taxpayers. That's why this lady came to the Minister to cry that the system destroyed her business. [[System?]] There is a lot of such taxpayers in Poland. The solid liability for the taxes that have been introduced in this Act is not altered. That's not enough. It's this bill that's gonna set off a lot of fires. That's what I was talking about in my previous speech. You will be responsible for this, and you, Minister, well know that there may be thousands of such cases after this bill. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u117	Of course, the Commissioner's statement concerned a change in the title of the bill. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 2 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 176 voted against - 246, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 13 The Tax Order is proposed by the applicant, among others. in paragraph 1, do not add point 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 161 voted against - 261, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 53 of the Civil Service Act add paragraphs 7 and 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 191 voted against - 229, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant shall propose a new wording of point 15a in Article. 9f Act on cooperative savings and credit banks. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 277, against - 23, with 129 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 167 draft law. Amendments 8 to 12 and 14 to 18 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 13. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 166 votes against, 264 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 13th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1, 2 and 7 in Articles 1 and 2 172 draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 162 voted against - 263, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 190a for the bill. Amendment 20 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 19 and 20 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 289, against - 19, with 122 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have already talked about the fact that law and justice reform of administration wants to take advantage of, just do a jump on the next stools. I was talking about how you didn't understand the criticism you've received from the sovereign over the last few weeks. You're telling people that it's necessary to eliminate competitions because they don't work. Somehow, oddly enough, the competitions work well in the private sphere, and no one denies them. For you, it's just an explanation just to cover more jobs with your influence. Sixty-five thousand. You put people and their families under the wall of uncertainty. You will take away their sense of stability in order to pursue their own party interests. My question is this: Will the only criterion for recruitment to KAS be party legitimacy and loyalty, as was often the case in State Treasury companies? [[Applause]] [[You sign up, you'll find out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u119	The question is raised by Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. [[Oh, look out!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A question for the Minister. Wouldn't it be better and easier to carry out the reform that you are talking about - I hope that this money will flow from VAT, from the tax gap - if you would give protection to the rights acquired to workers? Wouldn't it be better for you to finally say what you want to do with introducing uniformed customs officers into pensions? In this room on a citizen's project, when 200,000. the people submitted such a project, Minister Zieliński said that the government was in favour and gave the red light. I ask, therefore, when will the decision and consideration of the civil project finally take place on the transition to pensions of customs officers, the fulfilment of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and whether the government can determine when it will take place [[♪ The bell ♪]] and how many people will be affected. Because these numbers indicated by the government are different: from 14,000. Up to 2,000. Please state your position. Will the government finally tell the truth? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u121	Thank you. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u122	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There were already some ridiculous accusations of a set-up stool in the discussion. You screamed so loudly, you chanted at some point. [[Teddy bears.]] Hence my question to the Minister: Is it true that in February 2009 competitions were announced for more than 200 heads of tax offices and that as a result dozens of people were rejected because they did not fit the idea of the then Deputy Minister? Is it also true that the person who obtained the best result in the competition was rejected and the person who scored the smallest number of points became the head of the Tax Office in Starachowice? [[Applause]] Are such competitions to continue and are such competitions to ensure reliability? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We can only learn from you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u123	The Minister doesn't see the need. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the Chamber: Minister, Minister.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 926, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 239, against - 192, with 4 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed legislation introducing a law on the National Tax Administration. We return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the restructuring of loans denominated or indexed to a currency other than the Polish currency and on the introduction of a ban on granting such loans. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The question is raised by Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u124	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A question for the Minister of Finance. This is a 729 print question. Is it possible and feasible to convert a zloty into a zloty? And if so, what is the cost, the cost for the budget? I'm asking, ladies and gentlemen, because in 729 there were calculations on the seym website that were about huge costs. Hence my question, because we are talking about indexed and denominated loans, where there was no currency and there is no need to convert them. I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u125	Thank you. The question is asked by Ms Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating an extremely important, difficult problem with a wide range of issues. We're talking about loans in foreign currencies that weren't actually paid or paid in foreign currency. The three aid projects submitted to the franchise are an attempt to help those who have taken up such loans. With regard to the assessment of complex projects, the most expensive, simplest and most advantageous project for fraudulent borrowers is the one from print No 729. The president failed his project because he promised something else during the election and as president, and he submitted a project that primarily protects banks, those that have specialized in a harmful offer for borrowers. [[Applause]] The banks, public trust institutions, have failed most in the whole case. Fortunately, only a few types of banks are involved. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in our fairly broad offer. My question is addressed to bank defenders, applicants for rejection of 729 and 788 prints. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u127	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u128	We think we should talk substantively...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u129	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u130	...all three projects. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u131	Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I would like to tell you that I understand the spirit of your project, but I cannot agree with such logic, with such thinking and with some economic and legal dylanism that you present in this matter. And I wanted to ask, ladies and gentlemen, how is your project going to the positions of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Court, the European Central Bank? I will not mention the Association of Polish Banks, because for understandable reasons you are opposed. It seems to me that your idea is absolutely abstracted from the logic of thinking about how the Polish state, Polish law and the Polish banking system operate. And I would very much ask you to reflect so that you do not use this situation with borrowers and franchises for such a simple tactical political game. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u133	There you go. An applicant's representative will speak at the moment. This is a parliamentary project. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr President, I would like to say that our proposal for European legislation is very good. If you are well aware of the modern party, these practices are prohibited in the European Union and in Western countries banks are beaten in courts and compensation is paid in millions, and there is no mercy. That's where you take care of the interests of the citizens, the interests of the state. It is time to bring the same principle to Poland. Let's stop with financial colonialism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u135	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 729 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 33 voted against - 386, abstained - 4. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. [[Applause]] We return to the consideration of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on special rules for the restructuring of foreign currency housing loans due to the change in foreign exchange rates to the Polish currency. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejecting it will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. We'll proceed to the vote... At this point, Members of the House are still asking questions. Member of Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u136	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, President Duda made a declaration of conversion and made a promise that such a project would be submitted within three months. That's not true, because he put in a project to return spreads. We have submitted a project that actually trades loans, which helps those who have borrowed currency loans, are actually in a difficult situation. The draft submitted is a declaration of discussion on all aspects of borrowing in currency at a committee meeting. And we're surprised at the motion for rejection. That's why I wanted to ask the government when it's going to take a stand on the so-called. currency loans so that we can talk about this problem in committee as soon as possible and talk about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u137	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u138	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Question to the applicant: What foreign currency did you have in mind when there were no foreign currencies put into the hands of borrowers? What do you want to trade, and why do you want to trade the gold? Once again, I repeat my question, which I've been telling all the economists for weeks, and no one answers, "How do I convert a zloty into a zloty?" Thank you very much. [[Was that for me?]] [[Yes, ma'am.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u139	Please. Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant. I wanted to ask you why you, the Civic Platform, did not accept the Senate amendments in September Ub. On 5 August 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020. My second question is already very specific. How did you come up with this law and its implementation to depend on the number of children? I can't understand the correlation between the credit and the number of children... [[The cost of living the family simply.]] ...with the exception of some sentiment for the 500+ program. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u141	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska is acting as the representative of the applicants. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am replying to your Members. The project on the conversion of credits in other currencies into gold to eliminate the risk, the Civic Platform submitted the whole project last year, in the last term of office. It is not for the applicants to prove that there has been a payment in currency and that all the authorities of the State - the Financial Supervision Commission, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection - have not raised objections on individual contracts. The legislator is not able to control each contract. This can be done by an appropriate authority, but it can also be done by a citizen on a judicial basis. We showed that we were ready. We've prepared a project like this. The Kukiz Member15 asks why we have not adopted the Senate amendments. Senate amendments... [[That's what Modern asked.]] Excuse me, that's a modern answer. [[Then don't insult us.]] To answer Mr Kukiz15, it is not on the legislator's side... It has not been sufficiently indicated that this procedure for granting loans was prohibited. No such element has been identified. When these loans began, some prominent Law and Justice politicians said that a citizen had a right to risk. [[Krysia, that's enough.]] The second point is related to the Senate's amendments. The Senate amendments were the same as the submission of the Platform, with today's submission. The aim is to split the risk elimination halfway between the client and the bank, and on the Law and Justice side there was a proposal of 90% for the bank, 10% for a client. There was no chance that the Senate amendment would go through in this Parliament in this shape. And that is the answer to the Member's question. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Krysia.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u143	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. [[How do we vote?]] [[Voice from the room: Against.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 877, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 27 against - 398, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We would like to return to the discussion of item 34 of the agenda: The report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the draft resolution on the establishment of the day of the child's rights... [[Families, families.]] Excuse me, I think I have some dirty glasses. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We would like to return to the discussion of item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft resolution on the establishment of Family Rights Day. Amendments were tabled during the second reading of the draft resolution. The Sejm has decided not to send the draft resolution to the committee and to vote after the text of the amendments has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. Amendments were delivered to print No 942. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 942. First of all, I will put the amendments tabled to the draft resolution to the vote. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the resolution. The adoption of this amendment will mean the adoption of a resolution as proposed by the applicants and the futility of the other proposals. Questions are raised by Members. Wait, what does that mean, everything else? [[It's me, Marshal Magdalena Kochan.]] But you to all of it, all of it? What does that mean? [[No, I'm on the first amendment.]] Oh, I see. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the Member of the applicant. Why, by proposing to you the adoption by the Sejm of Family Rights Day, of a very good idea that no one in this Chamber seems to want to say no, do you at the same time propose such records that destroy this idea? You have applied the constitutional definition of marriage as regards the definition of family, thus excluding from the circle of persons who are to be governed by a law, a resolution, single moms who raise their daughters, single parents, grandmothers and grandparents raising their grandchildren, foster families or even families of migrants who, in accordance with the Vatican Charter of Family Rights, which you invoke in the explanatory memorandum, should also be covered by such care. Why are you doing this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We would like to vote in favour of this law by resolution if you accepted our amendment on the new wording, which would solve this problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u145	Thank you. Mr Piotr Uściński, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have prepared a draft resolution on the establishment of the Day of Family Rights on 22 October. We have written in the project that the Sejm is concerned about the future of a family based on a lasting relationship between a woman and a man, open to receiving offspring. We believe that such a family, such a traditional family model, is the foundation of the existence and development of the Polish state. Question to the rapporteur: Is it true that the amendment of the Platform, including the Modern one, is mainly the deletion of this entry about the traditional family model from this resolution? I know that you, this environment, have been for years for blurring the definition of family. [[But what are you talking about? What are you talking about?]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: What are you saying?]] I know you think the family is just random people living at the same address. [[But what are you talking about?]] [[The voice from the room: It's a scandal!]] That is why we need to establish a family day, and that is why we need to defend the rights of the traditional family. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u147	Mr Tadeusz Wozniak will speak on behalf of the applicants. [[But I'm sorry, as a correction, because I wasn't understood.]] There you go. [[I wasn't understood.]] [[She wasn't mentioned.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I think the peak of hypocrisy on the part of the Civic Platform is to say that the Civic Platform has always supported the idea of establishing a Family Rights Day. I would just like to remind you that, during the time of the Civic Platform's rule, the three times tabled draft of this resolution did not even have a first reading. It was first submitted in 2009. Marshal Komorowski sent this project to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and there he was stuck until the end of his term of office and did not get his first reading. It was reassembled on 13 January 2012, also addressed to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and also missed its first reading. It was submitted for the third time on 19 January 2015 and was also addressed to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family and did not have a first reading. You've been in charge for six years. [[Eight.]] ...when this project was on the committee. It took six years for you to rule. You could have been investigating this project. [[But what are you talking about, man?]] You could have tabled the amendments, you could have reworded it, you could have praised it in whatever form you wanted. And today, you crocodiles are tearing down the fact that we have a project that you don't want. [[Because he's not like that.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, we actually think we're defending the family. The traditional and you have not, unfortunately, defended this traditional family. [[But what family?]] And he crushed you, crushed you just by the Supreme Court. In the context of family perception... [[Marriage, marriage.]] ...in the Polish legal system it is worth to draw attention to the opinion on the Polish draft law on the partnership agreement, print nr 825... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: But this is a marriage, not a family.]] [[But what are we talking about?]] ...in the seventh term of the Sejm, in which the Supreme Court noted that the constitutional preference is to create a family by marriage, treated as a lasting union between men and women, directed towards motherhood and responsible parenthood. [[Bravo.]] [[But you guys are limited.]] The constitutional legislator made an axiological choice to guarantee a traditional, normative model of marriage and family. This is the opinion of the Supreme Court on the draft law on the partnership agreement presented by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Thank you very much. [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u149	There you go. [[As a correction, because I've been...]] But no, Mrs... [[Isn't the marshal really gonna let you?]] I know your name. Your name is Magdalena Loven. [[So what? Is the cocoa clogged?]] And the envoy spoke per you. It is not the same, Madam Member. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] I'm so sorry, ma'am. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment, and thus in favour of adopting the resolution proposed by the applicants, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 159 voted against - 260, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant shall propose to the first subparagraph a new wording. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is right that the discussion on this resolution took place and in the committee, and here, in the plenary room, there is only one basic thing that the honourable Members and the applicant do not distinguish and understand. Family is a family, a basic cell, a unit that needs to be supported - institutions, citizens need to do so - and it needs to be protected as much as possible. But marriage isn't always... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] That's a completely different definition. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Marriage is a relationship, ladies and gentlemen, a man and a woman. [[And the groundhog?]] On the other hand, orphans are also widows. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And then we don't have a permanent relationship between a man and a woman. [[And the groundhog wraps these pieces of silver...]] And that's the fundamental difference that you just don't understand. Therefore, by submitting this amendment, I ask you to remove from the rule that the family is based solely on a lasting relationship between man and woman, because such a record discriminates orphans, widows and all other families. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Are you crazy? Baba dumb?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u151	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u152	Thank you. In support of this amendment, of course, I would like to ask a question to the Member [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] the applicant. Why do you not want to call the date of marriage, according to these definitions, on October 22nd? Then it would be a full agreement. But I'll add one more thing. Well, instead of establishing family days, we worked for this family - a year's marriage leave, an increased number of places in daycare, kindergartens... [[Raising the retirement age...]] ...tax credit, card of a great family, 39 billion PLN for pro-family policy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Retirement age you have raised!]] You have no right. To tell us that we forgot our family. [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u153	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 154 voted against - 263, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Questions are raised by Members. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Where's the marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Down with women's dictatorship!]] This law and justice project is really just to distract attention from all the miscarriages that Law and Justice has been doing to Poland for at least 10 months. This resolution doesn't bring anything, it doesn't improve anything, it soaps the eyes. [[You're not looking me in the eye.]] What does it have to do with the rights of the family to force women to bear children who are about to die, Mr Kaczyński? [[Asia, look me in the eye.]] What does the sloppy education bill, Minister Zalewska, have to do with family rights? [[Women's dictatorship.]] What does it have to do with the rights of the family, PiS Members, to prevent sexual education and in vitro education? [[Look me in the eye.]] State politicians of PiS, you are the most pro-family in the distribution of positions in companies of the State Treasury [[Applause]] And in the government administration. Mr Kaczyński told you to stop partying. Just get to work and get on with the good family policy. [[Bravo, bravo...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u155	Thank you. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[What about women's dictatorship?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[He'll be here at last.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're breaking the law, you're breaking the law, you're breaking the law, you're breaking the law, you're breaking the law, you're It is in your own language in this resolution that you discriminate against millions of families where the mother raises her own children, the father raises his own children... [[Voice from the hall: What are you talking about, really?]] ...in which parents did not marry. I know that the ideal is a full traditional family, but life is not ideal and it is not always possible. 80% children are raised in full families, about 20% children - in incomplete families. I was one of them, too. How many of you, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, have been raised in incomplete families? [[And two dads are what?]] Isn't this a day for all families? Shouldn't every family in Poland be worth it? According to the Civic Platform, we are all in favour of establishing Family Rights Day, but we would like every family to [[♪ The bell ♪]] for all Members in this House, it was a value. [[Applause]] [[What about two dads?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u157	Thank you. Member, that is certainly the case. I do not think that any Member denies your statement. [[But you deny the content of this resolution?]] Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! We have such conviction in our small circle, but very valuable, that in Polish history there have always been, for many years, two traditions. One tradition from Mr. Tadeusz, the other from Falangi, the pre-war writing of ONR - one inclusive, the other exclusive. One treated the citizens regardless of religion, nationality, way that so to say, lifestyle, evenly, the other divided Poles into real Poles and non-Polish Poles. And we have the impression, unfortunately, and I want to ask you if you are aware that this resolution is part of the latter, the worse tradition, where... [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...there's a speech. only about Polish families, and the non-Polish, Ukrainian families who live in Poland do not have... [[Oh...]] ...right to support, where it's said that the family that's divorced, the man left the woman, not anymore. [[♪ The bell ♪]] deserves the care of the Polish state and the Polish parliament. [[You don't understand the terms. Just understand.]] [[A woman left a man.]] Do you really want to honor this ONR, which divides Poland into a better and worse kind of tradition? Think about it, please. [[Please understand, please understand...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u159	Thank you. Would anyone like to speak now? [[Voice from the room: No, not anymore.]] On behalf of the applicants, Mr Tadeusz Wozniak. [[Mr. Tadeusz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The concerns expressed by you in these questions are completely unfounded. [[Of course.]] This resolution, this project is not directed against anyone. [[Yes, sir.]] [[So write it down.]] The resolution begins with the following words: "Sejm of the Republic of Poland, concerned about the future of the family.... [[Bravo!]] It's an expression of our concern, not of acting against anyone. [[Then don't worry so much.]] Therefore, we believe that the government of Law and Justice, the whole united right hand, the club of Law and Justice, we all take all the steps to make sure that families in Poland live their lives as best as possible. And we don't rule out anyone, we don't rule out a single mother, we don't rule out a child. It's not like we're ruling out adoption families, either. [[That means you don't understand what you've written down.]] [[Idea right, records wrong.]] ...participants and other forms of family. You're just trying to impersonate us and try to rub it with a stick in the anthill just... [[We read with understanding]] ...just to mess with the Poles' heads. The best form, the most valuable form, also for the interests of the state, is a full family. [[What did you write down?]] And that is what it is all about to encourage Poles. They're free, no one's forcing anyone. A marriage can only happen as a result of the free will of two people, but someone who doesn't want to start a family or doesn't want to marry doesn't have to, nobody forces him to. This resolution is only meant to draw the attention of all institutions in our country, all people to the needs of the family. You're saying a family day would have to be established. International Family Day has been established by the United Nations. Please note that on the 10th anniversary of the proclamation of the Charter of Family Rights, the United Nations celebrated this feast on September 20, 1993, and it does not take place every day, and the United Nations declared the year 1994 to be the year of its families. [[A year of families, not marriages.]] Ladies and gentlemen, so family matters are extremely important and family is fundamental, family is the foundation. If we take care of the foundation, the building won't collapse. I promise you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u161	Thank you. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No.942, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 273 votes against - 43 and 105 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the establishment of Family Rights Day. We would like to refer to item 23 of the agenda: Report from the European Commission on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 905. The question is raised by Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, a word about these resolutions. I have reached the text on the pages of the Supreme Council. And we have adopted a different text of the resolution than the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It remains to determine who misled him. [[Voice from the room: This is the wrong point.]] Now, let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u163	Mr President, the point is different, so let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u164	Now, let's get to the point. [[That's enough!]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that all the clubs in this Seym are jointly opposed to... [[You don't support nationalism, Marshal.]] ...a mechanism to place immigrants, refugees in Poland. [[Let us not support nationalism in the Seym.]] I am very pleased that all clubs, the entire Sejm, have come to this conviction, which has long been expressing national environments and the National Movement. This is a very good change for all Members in this House. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like and would like to see the Sejm also on other issues relating to the European Union, such as the euro issue or the issue of rejection of Brussels Centralism, as well. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the thought and position of the national environments. Thank you. [[But the Seym is not a wish concert.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u165	And the question, sir? In the future, please finish your excellent speeches with questions in question points. Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club, is asking a question. [[Voice from the hall: He's in time, he's in time.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u166	At this point, I want to demonstrate against such manipulations, because this resolution of the Sejm is against the permanent mechanism for the distribution of refugees. And that's where it's always been. There is no agreement of the Sejm, there was no agreement of the previous government and of this government for such a permanent mechanism to function. On the other hand, this is not about building European and foreign policies on fear, what the nationalists are offering us. So don't manipulate the Sejm's will. [[Applause]] That's never gonna be okay. For you to appear in every question and try to build a policy on fear, and to undermine the credibility of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u167	Thank you. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak asks for the floor. There you go. [[Oh, another nationalist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you from the PO-PSL coalition that in September ub. In breach of the Visegrad Group's solidarity, you agreed [[Applause]] For the admission of thousands of emigrants... [[What are you talking about?]] [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] ...from the Middle East and North Africa. [[Because we're Christians.]] Remember that. Thank you. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u169	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 905, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 431, no one voted against, one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the recognition of a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. We would like to refer to item 25 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on a Construction Contract or a Service. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1, 9, 11, 12, 17, 21, 22, 25, 26, 35, 37 and 38. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial nature. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The absolute majority is 208. No one voted against - 413 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In amendments 2, 4, 6 to 8, 10, 20, 29, 36, 39 and 41. The Senate proposes to clarify the wording of the rules. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. No one voted in favour, against - 422, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 3, 23, 31, 33 and 40. The Senate proposes to harmonise the terminology of the law by analogy with the provisions of the Public Procurement Law. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. Four votes against - 416, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 5, 15, 18, 32, 34 and 42. The Senate proposes, among other things, that the rules on concessions without a tender, so-called. In-house, they came into force as well as in-house procurement rules. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. 95 votes against - 335, 1 member abstained. [[Applause]] The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 13, 14, 16 and 30. The Senate proposes to standardise all notices published in the EU or national publication. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. The vote was 2 against - 424 and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 19, 24, 27 and 28. The Senate proposes amendments to the implementation of European Union law in the field of Directive 2014/23/EU. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. Three Members voted against - 423 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the examination of item 26. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Code Act (Print No 816) - follow-up. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 816 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. There were 232 votes against and 189 abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the sale of food by farmers and amending certain other laws (print No 854) - continuation. In the discussion, a request was made to refer the draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Health for consideration. The proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer the bill to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has submitted a bill to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Health. The question is raised by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The bill for which we will vote in a moment, actually the amendment, is very important for Polish agriculture. The point is that a farmer can finally make money on products that he manufactures and processes right where there is the most money. Soon there will be another bill, we will vote on two laws. There is no need for this to be diluted and addressed to the Committee on Health, only the Committee on Agriculture and the Finance Committee. I would ask you to vote that this be just for the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Finance. The question to the Minister of Health, I'm sorry, Minister of Agriculture. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Does the Minister of Agriculture also buy food directly from farmers, as I suspect most of this House? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Continue.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u171	Straight from the farmers? [[We're voting, Marshal.]] Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of sending the draft law in print No. 854 to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 309 votes against - 116, 2 abstentions. [[Applause]] I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the request of the City Police Commissioner in Łódź of 8 June 2016 to agree by the Sejm to be held liable for the offence of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Krzysztof Kwiatkowski (print No 862) - vote. On the basis of the article. 206 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 18c paragraph. 7 in conjunction with Article. 18f of the Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control proposes the adoption of an application for consent to criminal liability for the offence of the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. On the basis of the article. 18c paragraph. 9 in conjunction with Article. 18f of the Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control of the Sejm agrees to drag the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control to criminal liability by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the proposal to allow criminal liability for the violation of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Questions are raised by Members. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. Of course, please submit questions to the rapporteur of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Let's go back to 29 January this year. And to vote. On item 13 of the agenda, the committee's report on the request by the Chief Police Officer of 17 November 2015 to consent by the Sejm to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalek was considered. The results of the vote: 127 Members were in favour, 268 Members were against. How will you behave now? [[You'll see.]] [[You'll see.]] President Kwiatkowski voluntarily gave in to the punishment, paid his ticket, gave away his driver's license. Art, though. 206 of the Constitution provides, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the President of the NIK without the prior consent of the Sejm cannot be held liable or deprived of liberty...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u173	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u174	...the president's goal is to bear the consequences of his actions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u175	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u176	This isn't about intercedeing for someone, but it's about equal treatment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u178	Treat everyone equally, both yourself and others. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u180	Thank you, Marshal. Our question, on behalf of the circle, is addressed to the chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee because we want to be clear about the situation. We have two requests for immunity. As we understand it, the first is connected with the offence, i.e. the road mandate, as we know, paid by President Kwiatkowski. The President did not refuse to pay this mandate. Despite payment in mode, it's not entirely understandable to us... [[But you're the ones who came up with it.]] ...this has been annulled and has been requested to waive immunity. If that's a fact, we'd like to have precise information. As I understand, this second case concerns the issue, so let's call it, the Podkarpackie case, and we have full clarity about how to behave, but on the first one, I ask you to reply to the chairman of the rule committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u181	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, who is also the chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the matter at issue is concerned at the moment, the Rules of Procedure Committee has leaned on the application of the City Police Commissioner in Łódź. [[I think I'll take the floor.]] [[You'd better not take it, sir.]] In the situation discussed here, President Krzysztof Kwiatkowski accepted a mandate, gave away his driver's license... [[So what do we do now?]] ...which is clearly contrary to the current legal order in Poland. This action was therefore unlawful by President Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[What was illegal? Paying the ticket?]] President Krzysztof Kwiatkowski... [[He legally paid the ticket.]] ...protected by immunity, he couldn't take that action. [[Voice from the hall: He paid the ticket and broke the law.]] So, at the request of the police chief, the rule committee decided to support this request... [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] ...and recommends the High House to waive its immunity. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: But what conclusion?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u183	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask you a question.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[I'd like to ask you a question.]] The questions have already been answered and asked. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We're coming... [[Mr. Marshal, but this is...]] [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request by the City Police Commissioner in Łódź to give his consent to the criminal liability of the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, for the act specified in this request, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The statutory absolute majority is 231. 335 Members voted against - 58, abstained - 21. I state that by an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm adopted a resolution for consenting to criminal liability for the violation of the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control of Krzysztof Kwiatkowski for the act specified in this request by the City Police Commissioner in Łódź. [[Applause]] [[Immunity can't be oppression.]] We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application by the Director of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office of 10 June 2016 to allow the Sejm to hold the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control Krzysztof Kwiatkowski liable for criminal liability (print No 863) - vote. On the basis of the article. 206 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 18c paragraph. The 7th Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control proposes the adoption of an application for consent to the criminal liability of Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, President of the Supreme Chamber of Control. On the basis of the article. 18c paragraph. The 9th Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control of the Sejm agrees to drag the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control to criminal liability by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the criminal liability of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. At this point, Members of the House have asked questions. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I wonder what's going to happen when the President's immunity is lifted, which he has repeatedly applied for, so we're going to vote in favour. I'm guessing he'll be charged. And I have a question for the chairman of the committee whether he knows whether the Ministry of Justice will attempt to limit the functioning of your President as the independent President of the Supreme Audit Chamber after the allegations have been made. We are afraid that - when the time was over, when the Supreme Audit Chamber was analysing the action of the Civic Platform, and now it will begin to check how you, the state, have ruled over the last year - the person of the President may be uncomfortable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u185	Please. Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u186	Thank you, Marshal. I have a question for the President of the Rules of Procedure Committee, because we are dealing with a somewhat curial situation: there are many experienced parliamentarians here in this Chamber and many of us have been paying mandates in our lives. We're dealing with a situation where someone wants to pay a ticket. He simply pays a lot of parking tickets, and you claim, by representing the Sejm, that we are illegally paying them and that we have an obligation to come to the O.R. Immunity must not be oppressive, and this is an oppressive effect. We normally pay parking tickets. [[We have changed the rules of law in this regard.]] Do not create an atmosphere in which Members are special, because you may think you are special. If this happens to us, we normally pay tickets, and that's the way it's supposed to be. And today we are dealing with the situation that Minister Błaszczak will give us mandates, and you will take away our immunity. This is oppression, not immunity. [[Applause]] You're making the situation absurd. [[He's gonna give you a ticket for pulling back on the highway.]] Don't wave a finger, Minister, and don't threaten me. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, don't... [[There's nothing you can do to me.]] [[On the highway you drive straight, not backwards.]] [[It's embarrassing, and it's the minister.]] I will only give the floor to the rapporteur and remind you that I have read, referred to the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Article 2 206 constitutions talk about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Member may waive immunity, the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber has no such right, he cannot waive immunity - and that is what the Constitution says, and that is the essence of things. [[But there was a discussion. We accepted it in our previous term.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need to change the rules if you resent it if you want to put it this way. Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, draftsman of the committee, will take the floor on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To Mr Nitras: by September 2015, Mr Nitras had no right to adopt a mandate. That's what the bill said, and that's what the constitution says. [[But the Platform changed it.]] [[Voice from the room: Platform changed the law.]] Indeed, since 15 September 2015, the Member has the right to adopt a mandate. [[The platform changed that.]] [[Yes.]] We are faced with a mandate for the Member and the Senator, and in the case of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, this law, under which we operate, makes it impossible for the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber to accept the mandate. This can be read directly: the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber cannot be punished by a mandate. This is the difference between the status of Member and the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. As to the statement that President Krzysztof Kwiatkowski asked and asked for the waiver of immunity, I would like to make it clear, as chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee, that President Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, by his representatives, did everything he could to remove the moment at which immunity was to be lifted. Thank you very much. [[Voices from the room: Lying.]] [[Lie!]] [[Voice from the room: That's the truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u189	Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, is asking for the floor at the moment. [[A voice from the hall: shame, a lie.]] [[Dunin, lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u190	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I didn't speak, I didn't plan to speak, but I have to correct one piece of information. Firstly, during this term of office of the Sejm, I applied for the possibility of paying mandates like any citizen, and such amendments... [[Voice from the room: But you can't.]] ...I put both the Sejm and the Senate in a meeting. The Deputy Minister of Justice, present at these meetings, was against it. His position prevailed, and the PiS senators were even in favour of this amendment. [[Shame, shame.]] Then came the news, the political guidelines, about voting differently. [[Shame. You don't want to pay the tickets.]] That's what I'm worried about, because it seemed like this change was justified. Also justified in the constitutional dimension. The CEO of NIK is as much a citizen as any... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...and that's why I thought that I should, like any citizen, submit to such rigor. I crossed speed, accepted a ticket, immediately paid it, had all the consequences for it, including those related to the surrender of my driver's license. [[But you broke the law.]] The rules clearly state that the only basis for the annulment of the mandate is the absence of misconduct. I told you there was a misdemeanor, but, of course, as soon as this immunity has been lifted in this case, I will pay my second ticket. But it puts this in an awkward light to the High House because we've engaged the court and the Sejm in a case in which we shouldn't involve them. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Yes, sir.]] [[Discredited.]] I would like to remind you that despite my requests to amend the rules on this matter, this has not happened precisely because of the position of government representative. Now with regard to the position of the Chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee: in no way and at any time have I delayed the work of the Rules of Procedure Committee. A year ago, I sent a letter to the Sejm asking me to waive my immunity because I disagree with the prosecution's position in the context of her doubts about three competitions in NIK. The awkwardness of this whole situation is that, as Mr Nitras has said, immunity, which is to be a tool in some sense to help public officials explain the matter, sometimes becomes exactly the opposite tool. For a year there has been only a position of the prosecution on this matter based on fragments of cut sentences, without the possibility of getting acquainted with the whole act. It's never been a case like this. It's never been a possibility. And at this point, the only way in that direction is - and I ask you to - accept today my motion to waive my immunity... [[Well...]] ...which will result in the prosecution having to hand over the entire case file to the court, and at this point not on the basis of press leaks, but on the basis of all the documents, an independent court will be able to settle this case. I didn't delay the case at any point. My position on this matter is clear. The meeting of the Rules of Procedure Committee took place first after the holiday break. I am somewhat sorry that the calls sent to me at the moment when I informed - because there is also a letter - when the president of NIK goes on vacation like everyone else, were sent to my address during the period when there was a holiday break. [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] But it did not delay the sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, and you know it, because at the first sitting, as soon as I came to the Chamber, I declared: I would ask you to waive my immunity against the previous position of my representatives who had no influence on the outcome of the sitting of the Committee, because at the first sitting of the Committee my position on this matter was clear. And I ask you, Mr President, did you receive my position at the beginning of the committee meeting with a clear declaration of your willingness to waive my immunity? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u191	Thank you very much. [[We're voting.]] We'll proceed with the vote. You're still chairman of the committee? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Voice from the room: Tell the truth.]] [[Voice from the room: First question.]] First of all, thanks to the legislative initiative of Law and Justice... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: How?]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...the bill was amended and the president could finally pay the ticket. [[What are you lying about? What are you lying about?]] [[Voice from the hall: What are you lying about, man?]] He'll be able to pay the ticket. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] Secondly, Mr. President... [[Answer me!]] ...I invite the President to the secretariat of the committee to take note of the letters sent by your plenipotentiaries, because this is a clear conclusion. Your opinion is inconsistent with the opinion of the plenipotentiaries. [[Applause]] [[But who's more important?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u193	Thank you. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't shout. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the application of the Director of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office to agree to hold Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's President's criminal liability for the actions set out in this request, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The absolute majority is 231. The vote was 409, against four, with nine abstentions. I state that by an absolute majority of votes the Sejm adopted a resolution on consenting to the criminal liability of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Krzysztof Kwiatkowski for the actions specified in the proposal of the Director of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Change in the personal composition of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public authorities and institutions vis-à-vis entities included in the Amber Gold Group (print No 953). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. 2 (2) 1 of the Law of 21 January 1999 on the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry submitted a proposal for a change in the personal composition of the Committee of Investigation. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this proposal? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] No one's checking in. Let me remind you that on the basis of the article. 2 (2) 1 of the Act on the Parliament's Committee of Inquiry for Changes in the Personal Composition of the Committee of the Sejm shall be made by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 953, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. The absolute majority is 204. The vote was 398, against four, with four abstentions. I state that by an absolute majority, the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the change in the personal composition of the Committee of Investigation. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 950). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 950 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 392 Members voted. The vote was 376, against - 3 and with 13 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 55 hours 11 min 59]] Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item 31 of the agenda: First reading of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on amending the Law of the Penal Code and the Act on Juvenile Procedure (Print No 846). I ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Dera, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u194	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland Mr Andrzej Duda a bill amending the Penal Code Act and the Juvenile Procedure Act. The proposal to initiate amendments to the Law of 6 June 1997. The Penal Code and the Act of 26 October 1982 on the handling of minor cases concerning the improvement of the level of protection of minors was presented to the President of the Republic of Poland as part of the System Analysis Team by the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. At this point, I would like to thank the Ombudsman, Mark Michalak, for this very valuable initiative, and Judge Agnieszka Rękas, who is a co-worker of your Ombudsman, for this initiative. Thank you very much on behalf of the President. This team, the System Analysis Team, was set up at the President's Office of the Republic of Poland in order to formulate proposals for changes to existing legal regulations based on the affairs of citizens, which were the subject of investigation by the Office for Intervention Assistance of the Legal Chancellery of the President of the Republic or invited to cooperate within the team: the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman, the patient's ombudsperson and the financial Ombudsman. The presented project was created as a result of cooperation between the President of the Republic of Poland and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, with the support of the other members of the System Analysis Team. At this point, I would like to thank you very much for your personal contribution to this project, including Dr. Krzysztof Szczucki from the President's Law and Government Office. Ms Urszula Olszewska, who is an employee of the Legal Assistance Intervention Office, thank you very much. The aim of the bill is to increase the level of protection of minors, with particular regard to minors under 15 years of age, as well as those who are not able to cope because of their mental or physical state. The project envisages tightening the responsibility of perpetrators of crime against life and health, against freedom, against family and care, and other changes that increase the criminal protection of victims of crime. The bill submitted is aimed at the protection of particularly important goods. Their weight is reflected in two aspects. Firstly, the projector proposes changes in the area of crime against life and health, against freedom, against family and care, and against justice. In itself, the importance of these goods justifies considering their far-reaching protection of a criminal nature. There is no doubt that such goods as life, health, freedom, family ties are placed high in the hierarchy of protected goods in the Constitution of the Republic. The principle of amending the Penal Code contained in the proposed bill is also derived from the qualified nature of the infringement of the protected goods cited. Minors are particularly concerned by the Republic of Poland. The welfare of the child is a constitutionally protected value. The public authority is entrusted with the obligation to protect human dignity in particular. This obligation is particularly important for those who, above all, due to age, but also other circumstances, find it difficult to take sufficient care of their own subjectivity. Minors are highly exposed to abuse by other persons with a view to directly or indirectly restricting their subjectivity and autonomy. The violation of the personal property of minors is characterised by very serious social harm. A child who is much harder to defend, and the harm caused to him has a very negative impact on his development and his entire future life. The project aims to improve the level of protection of the youngest and the weakest, i.e. minors under the age of 15. It thus falls within the context of previous criminal legislature decisions. However, this does not mean that the level of protection of minors between the ages of 15 and 18 is not increased at all. In line with the proposed wording of the Article. 53 § 2 The criminal code for committing an offence to the detriment of such a minor should entail a higher penalty within the limits laid down by the type of criminal offence concerned. The draft envisages amending the general directives on penalties and other measures provided for in the Penal Code by supplementing the Article. 53 § 2 The Penal Code catalogue of the circumstances that the court takes into account when punishing. According to the draft, the court also takes account of the fact that the perpetrator committed an offence against the minor. The introduction of additional circumstances in the Penalty Directives will result in courts being required in all criminal cases to verify that the offence has not been committed to the detriment of the minor. Where it is established that this has been the case, the court should impose a higher penalty than in the case of an analogue crime but committed without harming the minor. Amendment to Article 53 § 2 The Penal Code makes the proposed project comprehensively protect the welfare of minors. Protection takes place not only through legislation in which the mark of the victim's minority has been introduced, but also through the obligation to include the minor's goods in any criminal case. I would like to stress here that this is a fundamental change in the Penal Code. After the adoption of this amendment, minors, in particular children under the age of 15, will indeed be protected in this way. Anyone who dares to violate this good and commit a crime against a child, against a minor, will be severely punished. I think this is the fundamental change that will protect children's welfare in a capital and comprehensive way. The project also includes changes in the detailed section of the Penal Code. It is proposed to introduce a qualified type of serious health injury in combination with the use of particular cruelty. It's an art. 156 § 3rd Penal Code. In the designer's mind, this act is to be a crime at risk of imprisonment for no less than three years. We propose to introduce another type of qualified criminal to commit the act referred to in Article. 156 § 1 Penal Code to a minor under 15 years of age or to a person who is unhelpful due to his or her mental or physical condition. It's an art. 156 § 4. This illegal act is to be a crime punishable by imprisonment for no less than three years. The proposal also provides for a revision of the sanction for causing serious injury to health with fatal effect, as set out in Article. 156 § 5. The project predicts that serious health damage with fatal outcome is a crime punishable by imprisonment for no less than five years. The project also provides for an increase in the penalty for causing serious damage to health in the basic type. According to this project, the sentence is to be from 2 years to 12 years imprisonment. Reinforcing the liability of the perpetrator of the offence in Article. 156 of the Penal Code will make the penalty for the offence more acquitted, extending the scope of cases where it can be treated as a criminal response appropriate to the reality of a particular case while preserving the possibility of individualising the dimension of the penalty. The following proposed amendment concerns Article. 189 Penal Code, which criminalizes the unlawful deprivation of human liberty. The amendment proposed in this project consists of an extension of the eligible type contained in Article. 189 § 3 on deprivation of liberty, which applies to a minor under 15 years of age. In the proposed legal condition, the qualified type contained in paragraph 3 shall include the alternative deprivation of liberty described in Article. 189 § 1 or 2 concerning a minor under the age of 15 or associated with a particular torment. Taking away the freedom of a minor, keeping him indoors may have far more harmful effects than those which occur in the event of the unlawful imprisonment of adults. The draft submitted also changes the wording of the Article. 189a Criminal Code on Trafficking in Human Beings. Trafficking in human beings is a crime characterised by a very high degree of social harm. The proposal submitted by the President aims to intensify the protection of minors from trafficking in human beings. As is the case with other types of prohibited acts covered by the amendment, also the type of prohibited acts regulated by Article. 189a The Penal Code has a high level of social harm. If the offence affects a minor under the age of 15, it shows an even higher level of criminality, which must be reflected in the criminal penalty. It is therefore proposed to add § 1a introducing a type of qualified admission to trafficking in human beings for a minor under the age of 15 and sanctioning him with a sentence of imprisonment for a period not less than 5 years. The project also covers the offence of abandonment of a minor under Article. 210 Penal Code. The conduct of a prohibited act referred to in this Article shall not be limited to the care of a minor under the age of 15 or of persons who are not able to do so because of their physical or mental state, but also to the legal interests of the life or health of such persons who are exposed as a result of their abandonment. In the opinion of the President of the Republic, the threat of criminal sanctions for committing crimes of abandonment of a minor or a helpless person is inadequate to the extent of social harm to the act and does not satisfy the obligation to protect criminal goods, such as not only family and care, but also health, safety and life of a minor under the age of 15, or of a person in need of mental or physical protection. In this state of affairs It is proposed to amend criminal sanctions: in the basic type - for imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years, and in the qualified type - for imprisonment from 2 to 12 years. The project also proposes changes to the type of prohibited act involving the abduction or detention, contrary to the will of the person appointed for care or supervision, of a minor under the age of 15, or of a person who is ill-helped due to his or her mental or physical condition. This act is punishable by imprisonment up to the age of 3. In the view of the President of the Republic of Poland, the threat of criminal sanctions for committing an offence of abduction or detention of a minor or a helpless person is inadequate to the extent of the social harm to the act and does not satisfy the obligation to protect criminal goods, such as not only family and care, but also the health and safety of a minor under the age of 15 or of a person in need of mental or physical protection. In this state of affairs It is proposed to amend the sentence of imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years. The aim of the project is to provide the minor with comprehensive protection against crimes threatening his or her fundamental interests. Protecting children is in the interests of not only state authorities but, above all, of society as a whole. This means that we should all be committed to countering the evil that is being done to children and to helping to hold all offenders responsible for crimes committed in minors. An indicator of the gravity of these crimes, which is also intended to motivate cooperation with the authorities of the State, should be the extension of the list of offences that should be notified to law enforcement authorities under threat of punishment. There does not seem to be a reasonable omission in the catalogue contained in Article. 240 k.k.a. those types of criminal offences whose task is to protect minors, in particular against sexual crime that threatens them. It is necessary to sanction the failure of law enforcement authorities to notify them of the offences of: Article. 156 k.k.a. - severe health damage, Art. 189a k.k.a. - trafficking in human beings, art. Paragraph 197 (3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. - qualified rape, Art. 198 k.k.a. - sexual exploitation of insanity or helplessness, Article. 200 k.k. - paedophile act, art. 202 § 3re 4c k.k. - the preservation and presentation of pornographic content involving the minor and Article. § 204 § 3 k.k. - pimping, pimping, shopping for a minor. In the opinion of the designer, the protection of the child's goods by combating crime aimed at his or her interests should have the highest priority. In order to prevent the negative consequences that could be encountered by victims of the offences identified in Article. 240 § 1 k.k., i.e. the need to avoid double victimisation, it is proposed to add § 2a. The exclusion of crime in such cases will result in the victim of the offence referred to in Article. 240 § 2a k.k.a. there will be no criminal obligation to inform the offence, even if it has extended to other persons. And here I want to make this fundamental change clear. These proposals aim to ensure that the result of social anesthesia does not result in further cases of the beastly execution of children. We have recently had many such cases described by the media because someone said: it's none of my business, it's happening in the neighbors, it's not on my floor, it's somewhere else. This anesthetic led to the fact that the beaten and abused child died later. And here we introduce this obligation, that if bad things happen with children, it is a social obligation, and in this case, after this amendment also legal, to notify the authorities of the state, because thanks to this approach we are able to save many lives, young children. The point is not to let that happen in the future. And I hope that if this amendment comes into force, many beings, many children will be saved in this way, and this social anesthetic will be reduced in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the designer also proposes to amend the article. 11 § 3 of the Juvenile Procedure Act. The revision of this provision is justified by the requirement of consistency with the revised version of the Penal Code. And in conclusion, I would like to appeal to representatives of all the clubs in the Polish Parliament for work on this project, on the adoption of this project, because in the opinion of the President, the adoption of this project in a real and real way will increase the level of protection of our children's most important assets, will result in the perpetrators of crimes who will be those of minors who violate children being severely punished. And it will be a real help to all the children in our country. And that is why I very strongly appeal to representatives of all the clubs for work and to adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u195	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the Law amending the Penal Code Act and the Law on Juvenile Procedure. Mr Andrzej Dera, Minister at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, described in detail the reasons for this amendment. It should be pointed out at the outset that this detailed description of the regulation should be given the highest recognition of the High House at first reading. Indeed, an increase in the level of protection of minors with particular regard to minors under the age of 15 and those who are not able to do so due to their mental and physical state should in each civilised and democratic state meet with the highest protection, with the utmost care of the authorities of the State, the judicial authorities, but above all the legislators in the creation of solutions that will increase the criminality of perpetrators of crime against life, health and freedom, against family and care, and in all cases where life, health and the freedom of the child are at risk. The President's initiative, which is the result of an analysis of case law, of the practice of justice that affects the Ombudsman's activities, should therefore be welcomed. As the Minister rightly pointed out, criminal law should guarantee the highest possible and at the same time effective level of protection of the most important legal goods. This project, which seeks to increase the level of protection of the youngest and the weakest, should be welcomed by the High House. Therefore, without going into the analysis of individual solutions, because I think it will be time to work in the committee, I guess, of the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification, which I have the honour of chairing, where we will lean on all these solutions, I would like to stress that the project meets, as I said earlier, with great recognition already at first reading. However, I wanted to draw attention to all the situations that may arise from life, from the practice that we should also take into account when working on this project. And here I would like to draw the attention of the Minister and the Ministry of Justice to a case that has extremely upset all of us in recent days, which seems to fit unfortunately into a certain legal gap in our legal system. Not long ago, we were alerted by the parents of a child who died in a tragic accident in Michałowice, that this child was sent to a private English school and went shopping at the shop during the break and unfortunately did not come back from those purchases because he was hit by a car and died tragic, on the spot. Public prosecutorial proceedings and then court proceedings have shown that this private school is not subject to the education parole, and therefore there are no rules in force in public schools. So the D.A.'s office found that there were no persons responsible for babysitting who died. I find this situation unacceptable, this matter in my view should also be regulated, and I hope, Minister, that we will also lean on it, because I cannot imagine that this legal gap will continue to function. Either we find appropriate regulations in the Penal Code, or we extend them, or we introduce them, perhaps also during the work of this law, appropriate solutions to other laws, which will also regulate children's education in a precise manner, and the training of minors in private schools. So, thanking you for this amendment, we promise to work fairly, fairly and quickly on this project in committee. We are also counting on other clubs to support this good and noble amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u197	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Myrch, to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, and I am very sorry. [[And both are okay.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present our position on the presidential draft law amending the Penal Code Act and the Juvenile Procedure Act. The explanatory memorandum of the draft submitted indicates that its main objective is to increase the level of protection of minors with particular regard to minors under 15 years of age. It is absolutely obvious that the child's welfare is a value of special importance. Each case of his violation is appalled and deserves the highest damnation. Penalization of these behaviours is a fundamental duty of every country and in this respect the Polish legal order contains a number of regulations. The authors of the project propose the introduction of new types of eligible offences, which will result in only tightening of criminal sanctions already existing. This is a response to the comments raised, among others. by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child as regards offences against a minor. However, in the assessment of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, the doubts raised by the National Judicial Council and contained in the opinion submitted to this draft law should be divided. The question arises as to whether the proposed amendments to the legislation will actually be effective and ensure comprehensive protection of minors in a fair manner. There is no indication of the relevant studies and analyses describing this issue. When proposing specific solutions, you should know the reasons, and in this respect the justification for the bill is quite laconic and general. We do not know at the moment whether the possible too low punishment of offenders against minors is indeed a common phenomenon and whether the possible cause is the too low definition of penalties under the Penal Code. However, given that this issue actually requires debate and, if necessary, legislative changes, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club requests that the bill be sent to work in the codification committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u199	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to speak with Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The current Penal Code in the assessment of the Kukiz club15 suffers from clear shortcomings in the area of legal protection of children, in many areas it does not comply with the requirements of criminal policy in this area, which result directly from the content of the article. 72. 1 a constitution indicating the welfare of the child as a particularly protected value. The obligation to care for the welfare of the child, including criminal law, also arises from international obligations, in particular the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child or the International Convention against Trade in Women and Children. It is a good thing that this issue has been noticed not only by the President, but also by the Ombudsman. The project presented is the result of cooperation of these entities, undertaken at the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland. It also has the full support of Kukiz15, which recognises the need to increase the level of protection of children, including criminal law. Criminal law must be in the sphere of the so-called "criminal law." the general prevention, i.e. the formation of legal awareness of society, give a clear signal that the state will not tolerate the perpetrators who raise their hands on the weakest - children and the helpless. That's what the designers signaled. The signal is zero tolerance for child crime. It is appropriate, in particular, to require the courts ruling within the framework of the general directives to take the penalty into account increasing the content of criminal lawlessness in the form of committing a criminal offence to the detriment of the child. We agree to increase the threat of imprisonment for a crime of serious injury, including death. The limit between such behavior and murder is fluid. Sometimes the difficulties of evidence disqualify the possibility of accepting the intention of a possible murder, the more severe the criminal response to causing serious harm, e.g. disability or death. The disability of a child is something particularly severe for a young person who will feel its consequences in the physical and mental sphere throughout his adult life. There can be no consent to mild treatment of such crimes. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Trafficking in human goods, abduction, deprivation of liberty combined with particular torment or finally abandoning children, being completely defenseless, is, in our view, one of the most important criminal problems to which the state should respond with all determination. It is therefore appropriate to take a positive course in strengthening the criminal repression of these categories of offences. In this sense, there is no agreement to the views of a liberal school of criminal law, which rejects general prevention as a deterrent. Not to the children, ladies and gentlemen. Here we must not only shape the legal awareness of society, but above all give a clear signal to the criminal world that if it hits the weakest, the children, it will encounter an even more determined response from the state. The Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour of the project in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u201	Thank you very much. And to speak on behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to ask Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Penal Code is considered in the opinion of the Poselski Club. Indeed, the welfare of minors should be protected in a unique way, for every crime committed to the detriment of the child is causing great havoc in his life. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all cardinals, both in Poland and in the world, have been saying loudly for many years that it is not the harshness of punishment that deters the perpetrators, but its inevitability. That is why our main goal should be to deter and discourage potential perpetrators, because these are actions that actually reduce crime. I stress this particularly strongly: only effective prevention will make our country safer - Modern talks about it on every occasion - prevention, dear country, which is less costly and less painful for society, beyond its effectiveness. Our doubts are raised by the second part of the project - a change in the article. 240 of the Criminal Code, namely the extension of the catalogue of criminal record for not notifying the preparation, attempted or committed of the offences listed in the amended provision. So far, this catalogue has consisted of the most serious crimes. Now the applicant also wants to add crimes, let's call it, medium caliber. Our question is: Is it necessary? After all, according to the provision of the article. 304 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Anyone who finds out about a criminal offence prosecuted ex officio has a social responsibility to inform the prosecutor or the police. Do we really want to punish people for not knowing? We should educate the public that reporting a crime is not reporting. But the demand for citizens under penalty to report what they have seen or heard is a mistake in our view. Especially when we're dealing with crimes to the detriment of our loved ones. Recipe of the addition of § Admittedly, 2a introduces an exclusion from criminal liability of the victim for not reporting the offence to his or her own detriment, but does not take into account the people closest to him. Often, for very different reasons, victims do not want to report crimes, and families, respecting their will, do not report those crimes either. Of course, the perpetrator in such a situation may avoid punishment by our decision, but often reporting a crime can cause more devastation in the victim's psyche, causing additional unnecessary suffering, especially in sexual offences. We need to think seriously about this recipe. Poland cannot become a police state. People should have free choice on such matters too. And if not all citizens, at least family. A modern amendment will be tabled in the committee's work to mitigate the impact of this project. And finally, my personal reflection. Why are you really leaning on this right now? And why is the problem of children's welfare a criminal issue? Punishment will not solve the problem of pathology in families. Punishment can't help mothers running away from domestic abusers with their children. Punishment, Mr. President, was a good method, but in the previous system, when the militia was solving problems with a stick. Does this legislation mean that the President wants to introduce a police state in a slow, small step? Where is the project of real helping the Polish family? I appeal to the government and to the President. If you really want to help Polish families, then give more social services and not to the courts. Let's give people a hand, not a severe punishment, because soon every crime will end in a life sentence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u203	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk made a written statement which was accepted. Now on behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni Circle of Members. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the presidential draft law amending the Penal Code Act and the Law on Juvenile Procedure. The bill presented by President Andrzej Duda is intended to protect minors, with particular regard to minors under the age of 15, as well as to persons who are not able to cope because of mental or physical condition. The Act is tightening the rules on the punishment of those who commit crimes against life and health, against freedom, against family and care. Undoubtedly, committing a forbidden act that violates someone's health or life is the greatest violation of the law. The state of law so far does not guarantee sufficient protection of health and life. Previously, the criminal system was not equipped with appropriate qualified types associated with severe health damage due to the act of the perpetrator with particular cruelty or because of the victim: a minor under the age of 15 or a person who is not able to cope because of his or her mental or physical condition. That's what the bill introduces. The bill submitted provides for the protection of goods of particular importance for the functioning of the individual in society, but also for the state. We must not forget that minors under Article. 72. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is surrounded by special care by the Polish State. The child's welfare is a constitutionally protected value, but caring for his life, health and subjectivity is a moral obligation of each of us. Violation of the personal property of children and helpless persons has a great social harm, has a significant impact on their development and further functioning in society. Many important changes have been included in the bill under review. The list of circumstances which the court takes into account when imposing a penalty has been amended. The fact that the perpetrator committed an offence to the detriment of the minor was considered an aggravating circumstance. Criminal sanctions have been increased against persons committing serious injury to their health with fatal outcome. There has been a change in the eligible types concerning the unlawful imprisonment of a minor, supplementing the existing provisions on the mark of time and the mark of particular torment. A higher penalty for trafficking in minors under the age of 15 has been imposed. A higher penalty has been imposed for abandonment, abduction or detention of a minor up to the age of 15 years or of a helpless person. In particular, the project provides for the protection of the child's goods and their subjectivity, which is expressed among others. the protection of the victims who, in the experience of a forbidden act, did not notify them of their wrongdoing. There is a provision in the bill that states that there is no criminal offence if the victim has not notified that a criminal offence has been committed, with the exception of a terrorist offence. The proposal also proposes amendments to the Juvenile Procedure Act, which is necessary for the sake of consistency with the revised version of the Penal Code. In my opinion, the most important change made in this law is the provision that the court will have to suspend the conditional suspension of the placing of a minor in a correctional facility when he again commits the criminal act provided for in the catalogue of prohibited acts. I agree with the designers who, in the explanatory memorandum, consider that the project submitted meets the criteria of the Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which stands for the principle of proportionality, deserves support. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u205	Thank you very much, Member. Two people, two ladies from the Civic Platform Club, entered the list of Members to speak. Does anyone else want to ask a question? I don't see anyone checking in. So I'm closing the list. I ask Mrs Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform Club to ask a question. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Mark Michalak should be thanked at this point for paying attention to the crimes against minors resulting in this presidential project. One of the proposed amendments is the introduction of an obligation to notify law enforcement authorities of the preparation or attempt or execution of crimes against life and health, freedom and against sexual freedom and morals aimed at the welfare of the child. It's about someone who's gonna have information, for example. on a pedophile act, she had not only a social obligation but also a legal obligation to notify law enforcement. If she doesn't, she'll be punished for three years of imprisonment. This record caused an avalanche of comments, because often people who know about such crimes are ruled by fear. I wanted to ask: Will there be any special forms of protection for those who will inform law enforcement authorities about this crime? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u207	Thank you very much, Member. The second question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, also from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question and my attention are focused on another group, a group of people who are incompetent intellectually, both children and adults. It's a very important group. It's said in the proposed bill that there's no crime if there's no criminal report. In the meantime, you are aware - I am directing my vote to the representatives of the President - that very often these disabled, disabled, health care establishments or various psychiatric institutions do not report this, even because they are afraid. Not much, very often, even when sexual crimes occur, they feel in some way distinguished, and at the same time they must be defended against these facts. I am aware of all the difficulties, but the helplessness of families is terrible, because they observe the most horrible crimes committed on children in these establishments. And the very fact that there will be increased penalties is not really going to secure this group of unhappy people - let's just say it. So how do you propose... [[♪ The bell ♪]] The direction of the bill itself is very good, but what safeguards will be for the weakest ones, for those who are very difficult to help. There is also a provision that says that in the case - I'm almost done, your marshal - the lack of supervision will be punished by the head of such an institution, and he will not know, and it is not because he will often not even want to know, but often the one on which the crime is committed will not report it for various reasons, but there is no time to explain it. I would very much ask you to answer: Do you think about whether you have thought and whether there is any way of securing these people? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u209	Thank you very much. I would like to speak with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u210	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that these questions were addressed to the Minister, but I would like to answer them first. The issue in the procedural area is the anonymity of information concerning a person. There's also a bill that talks about protecting witnesses and victims. On the other hand, as I understand it, as far as the second question is concerned, Minister Dera will answer. I would like to express my thanks to the Ministry of Justice for leaning on the issue of minors, the issue of special protection, the special protection of minors. For several weeks now, or perhaps more, I have been dealing with parental abductions for a few months now, as well as foreign adoptions. There is always a question of the child's welfare in the background. The welfare of a child, which is the background. Today, the child's welfare in these speeches has been raised several times. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the child's well-being through this project. I would also like to inform you - this question has not been asked, but it will probably appear during the legislative work - that there is also a reform, a deep reform of the Penal Code, in the Ministry of Justice. These solutions, which are proposed by the President in his project, correspond with what is being prepared in our department. It's such an important piece of information. Hence, I also have the ease of replying or referring to this project. I would very much like to draw attention to the issue of two provisions of the Constitution, Article. 72. 1 and Article 1 30. This article. 72 is the obligation to ensure the protection of children's rights, the protection of children's rights and Article. 30 speaks of the special protection of human dignity. In the case of those crimes that Minister Andrzej Dera referred to here, I would like to say that they face a particular disgust from society. Thank you for all the voices that have appeared here today, because these actions, these behaviours towards the weakest, to children should be particularly socially stigmatized, and also in the criminal sense. This is an extremely important thing. I even had a few such descriptions of the situation in recent weeks, showing what cases we encounter, which the media often report. These are things that deserve special contempt for society. I think this project will meet with a very good, friendly welcome in society. After all, we protect the victim, who has special characteristics: he is a minor. I mean people under the age of 15. We protect life, health, freedom, family ties. This is an extremely important thing, which is why I thank you for the proposed amendment in the general section of the Penal Code. 53 (2), where there are specific Directives of the dimension of the penalty. It will be introduced, there is a proposed obligation to take into account circumstances in the form of committing an offence to the detriment of a minor. It's a few words, and it's very important, making it easier to take or determine a penalty. Of course, there is also a question of whether the Polish system is particularly repressive. Here I listened to the voice of the Modern Member. I totally don't believe that we're looking for a baton to try to fight, and so on. Not at all. I would like to tell you that I have even reviewed the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly pointed out that the legislator has a considerable freedom of criminalisation and criminalisation. And the Polish system really is not a particularly repressive system. Ladies and gentlemen, just one example - if I may, your marshal - of severe bodily injury. We compared five legal systems: in England, France, Germany, the United States and Poland; in the United States it was Pennsylvania. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic type in England with regard to severe bodily injury is the possibility of even life imprisonment, in France - up to 15 years old, in Germany - up to 15 years old, in the United States - up to 20 years old. And in Poland? Up to 10 years. If the effect is in the form of death: Great Britain - life sentence, France - life sentence, Germany - 15 years old, United States - life sentence or death penalty, in the case of Pennsylvania, but in Poland - from 2 to 12 years old. This is very important. We will probably soon be discussing just this reform that we are preparing. Polish legal system, Polish criminal law really is not particularly repressive. I dare say that he is particularly gentle in dealing with the perpetrators. As far as the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, I would just like to quote from the judgment of 9 October 2001, in which the Tribunal stated, and quote: The principle of a democratic rule of law, the system of which is based on the principle of division of power, shows that the law-making belongs to the legislative authority. At the same time, the legislator has been given considerable freedom to shape the law in force. Its boundaries are defined in particular by constitutional standards. The legislator shall be entitled to act in accordance with, inter alia, the law. the political objectives and, therefore, the criminal-political objectives. It's changing, and it's good. These changes are going in the right direction in my opinion. Of course, the principle of proportionality from the Constitution should be taken into account, so those penalties should be necessary in view of the objective, effective and real. But in this case, we have no doubt. Let us remember that in the background we have a person who has a special status, i.e. the victim. These are minors. Thank you very much, Minister, and thank you very much to the President for this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u211	Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Dera. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u212	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly for the warm reception by parliamentary clubs of the President's proposal to amend the Penal Code and this particular protection of the minor, in other words, not the legal language - children, to make the matter clear. Thank you very much. I think that all these doubts, all these comments you have made, we will be able to discuss in detail in committee and find solutions that will satisfy everyone and be good solutions that will result in children actually being better protected after adoption of this amendment than before. But I'd like to refer to a couple of club speeches and some questions that have been asked in this courtroom. As regards the representative of the Civic Platform, I would like to make it clear why these changes are here, why we are proposing this and why these changes are worthwhile. Well, we have a comparison of, for example, two such goods and criminal penalties for violating those goods. Please note that the perpetrator of the burglary robbery - this is an art crime. 279 of the Penal Code - is treated in the same way as the perpetrator of intentional injury to health, e.g. to the child. You have to ask yourself whether someone who breaks into a basement and steals an object worth more than PLN 1000, is to be treated by law as one who intentionally harms e.g. child, causes injury to your health. Should this be the case in the Polish legal system, in the criminal system? According to the president, no. It must be made clear that health, life is above material issues, because the bike can be returned, the lock in the basement can be repaired, and the health of the child can no longer be restored and this damage will simply be permanent damage. Clearly, then, there is a need to highlight the good of health, life, freedom, dignity of the child. This is a much more valuable value and it is clearly higher in the Polish Constitution. And the point is that this good should also be reflected in the rules of the Penal Code. As regards the modern representative, Mrs Kornelia Wróblewska spoke a lot about repulsion, prevention. But more criminal responsibility, more punishment for committing these crimes is one of the principles of general prevention. That's why we're doing this so everyone who's planning to raise their hand on the baby knows that he's going to be treated more severely. And that's one of the key elements of prevention. Of course, we have a number of articles here and this is not a prescription, i.e. It's not like we're gonna write in the code, and people are not gonna steal, they're not gonna kill. That's not gonna happen, of course. There are those who will violate these good things, but when they violate these good things, they must be sure that they will simply be punished according to what they have done. I've shown the difference before. And here must be a clear answer, and this is what we wrote in the article. 53 § 2. This is, in my opinion, one of the fundamental issues in this project - every criminal, regardless of who we are talking about here, with details of these particular issues concerning children, every criminal who commits a crime that is described in the Penal Code, if the victim is a child, will know that he will be treated more severely after this change. Whether he steals a cell phone from a child or does anything, and the victim is a child, the judge will be obliged to take this fact into account and simply punish the perpetrator more severely. Here we have to ask ourselves whether such an approach is, however, a prevention. If social awareness increases and we speak loudly about the fact that any crime where the child is a victim will be treated more severely, clearly in my view in the social perception there will be this awareness that children are particularly protected, because after this change the child will be protected. I cannot agree with one thesis, Commissioner, that has personally hurt me - as regards the revision of the article. 240 by the President. The Member said that these are medium-caliber crimes. To tell you the truth, I'm personally moved by this, because I know how the article has been written so far. 240 in the Penal Code was treated. Here we talked about this particular good, which is the state. We were talking about terrorism, about other matters, about the social obligation to inform state authorities about such cases. But you can't say, in my opinion, that serious harm to the health of a child, trafficking in children, child rape, child sexual abuse, paedophile acts against children are mid-caliber crimes. These are disgusting, serious crimes that have led to these children's lives. And that's why, after a really deep discussion, we've taken this attempt because if there's still a social anesthetic, we'll still think that it's planned to rape children, we're planning to trade children... there'll still be some kind of social anesthetic around it, and we'll continue to accept it socially -- and I'm not getting involved, so let's just take care of it, even though I have knowledge, even though I know what's going to happen, even though I've witnessed this event, I won't talk to you for peace of mind. Holy peace in this way killed many small beings in our country. And this is not only a question of criminal law, it needs to be described - I will tell you what will happen next - but above all, we need to change the social mindset. There can't be permission to anesthetic. And that's the job. All of us, parliamentarians, the Ministry of Justice, NGOs, the spokesperson for the rights of the child, all citizens. This is not about, as you suggested, the police state. This is not the role of the police state. It is a sensitivity to, if things happen horrible, disgusting, not close your eyes and pretend nothing happens. 'Cause where are we gonna go when we close our eyes on these kinds of cases? And here we really have been thinking very deeply about the issue of these crimes - they are horrible, disgusting and hard in our opinion. I want us to talk about this, but I want us to take a social action, too, so we can tell you why we want to change it. I'm sure there won't be such a view here that it's too much that it's oversized that we're trying to do something as a police state. It's the opposite. And I want to say one more thing to calm all these people down: in every such case It will be the prosecutor's request to the court, in all such really gross situations, where there is no doubt as to the intention that someone did not want to see. There must be a crime, a deliberate crime. Yeah, I knew, but I didn't, not that I had any guesses or anything. No, if he knew, heard, witnessed, he has a duty to inform. And in any case, it will be the judge who will determine what the motives were, whether he was afraid or not. He can always say, "I'm going away from punishing you because fear was bigger. These are individual cases, but this is about the general nature, so that we don't close our eyes and let this social anesthetic go away. Finally, I would like to address the questions here, thanking the Minister for answering the first question. I think I have nothing more to say here, indeed, as the Minister said. On the other hand, in reply to Joanna Fabisiak, this is where I completely agree with you. We have now had this case concerning the death of people in this pseudo-carriage for the elderly, the lack of care, the exposure of the lives of those in need. This change is about to prevent this, i.e. prevent the perpetrators of such crimes simply being punished, and in a more severe way than before, because special care is required by those who are not able to do so because of their physical or mental state. And that's also what we're protecting, and that's in this project, not just minor children, although it's child-oriented. We clearly point out, in the case of many of these crimes, that the perpetrators of crimes against those who are unhelpful, who are not alone because of their physical or mental state, will simply be severely punished. And here must be a change of mind. I understand that there are people close and close, but no one can do them. If they have reason to believe that something bad is happening, that someone is using them, they will have a duty to report it. It's not about responding criminally if they don't report it, but if they don't report it, they're actually gonna give permission to treat their loved ones like this. That's what it looks like, unfortunately, it's a permit. And that's the awakening of that consciousness. If we are indifferent, we will tolerate the evil that exists. That's why a profound change of consciousness is needed. I think that the time before this bill comes into force is the time for us to work together on a change of consciousness in our country regarding what it is to report and what it is to inform. I would like us to learn to distinguish these two things, because we can inform about different things, but to inform about evil, in my mind, it is the moral duty of every citizen of our country. And if we have that sensitivity, I think we'll be able to save a lot of lives, prevent a lot of the damage that exists in our country. And for such sensitivity on behalf of the President, I will appeal to us to work on it, because it is very important that we have such sensitivity, so that every citizen has such sensitivity. Once again, I would like to thank the High House, all the clubs, for their warm and kind acceptance of this project. I thank the Minister for his warm words to the President for his willingness to work, to cooperate on this project. I hope that after the adoption of this project by the High House of children in our country, the helpless, independent people will actually be better protected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u213	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present my position on the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on amending the Law of the Criminal Code and the Act on Juvenile Procedure. Today's project aims to increase the level of protection for minors, with particular emphasis on minors under the age of 15, as well as for people who are not able to cope because of their mental or physical state. The project envisages tightening the responsibility for causing serious harm to the minor's health. Today, he threatens from one year to ten years in prison, and when the result of the crime is a man's death - from 2 to 12 years. The amendment assumes that it will be from 2 to 12 years respectively and from 5 to 15 years in prison. Severe criminal liability is to be threatened by child imprisonment under the age of 15 (at least 3 years in prison), trafficking in children under the age of 15 (from 5 years in prison) , abandonment of a minor or a helpless person (from 3 months to 5 years, and in the event of death of such a person - from 2 to 12 years) abducting a minor or a helpless person (3 months to 5 years). The project predicts that the perpetrator of a robbery against a minor or a beating will be treated more severely than anyone who beats an adult. The courts will be required to verify that the offence has been committed to the detriment of the minor in all cases. High Izbo! Undoubtedly, life, health, physical integrity and dignity of minors require special care and protection of the state. Children are unable to take care of their subjectivity on their own, and they often remain vulnerable to criminals, while the damage they suffer marks their entire future life. Let us also remember that the child's welfare is a constitutionally protected value. 72. I the Constitution of the Republic of Poland). So far, criminal penalties against minors have often affected a common sense of justice. According to this sense of punishment for such crimes should be tightened. However, once again, it is necessary to ask whether, in the opinion of the projector, the scale of violence against children and young people will be reduced once the penalties for crimes committed against them have been tightened. Isn't it that it's not harsh, it's the inevitability of punishment? Does it really prevent you from committing crimes? A good step in this direction, towards the inevitability of punishment, is introduced in the draft an obligation to notify law enforcement authorities e.g. a pedophile act or beating up a child. A person who has knowledge of a paedophile act and does not inform the law enforcement authorities would be in danger of being punished for up to 3 years of imprisonment. This measure should contribute to the reduction of the so-called measures. Social anesthetic, that is, a situation where drama of children remains in four walls of the house, educational institution or colonial center. We have a duty to respond, and it is good that this obligation will be strengthened by criminal sanctions. We need more action to increase the detection and inevitability of the penalty. Only such measures can effectively reduce the scale of juvenile crime. We will not achieve this by tightening sanctions. High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of PSL is in favour of referring the bill to further work in committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u215	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the draft law on the amendment of the Law of the Criminal Code and the Act on Juvenile Procedure, presented by the President of the Republic of Poland, contained in print No 846, to the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws (print No 888). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u216	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a draft prepared in the Ministry of Justice, an amendment to the Penal Code and some other laws, print No 888. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that there will be a discussion throughout the legislative process. I would like to share a few reflections before going into a detailed discussion of the proposal. For 20 years I dealt with economic, economic, and close contact with entrepreneurs. In the media in recent weeks there has been information that this project, this amendment, is aimed at entrepreneurs. That's not true. I'd like to deny it. I have many friends among entrepreneurs, we have conversations with different environments. I want to tell you that entrepreneurs, knowing what this project is all about, do not question it. This project is against a completely different group. They're not entrepreneurs, they're criminals, they're crooks, they're especially organized criminal groups, they're often international groups, they're those who suck money out of all of us, from our budget. And we're all losing it, no matter what political color we're from. All of us, regardless of our political, religious views, whatever we do, are all deceived. It's been like this for years. Today, two hours ago, there was a lively discussion about one of the projects. Please consider this project as something that builds a certain system of fighting precisely those organized groups for which the last years have been a real edlorado. Just use a few data to confirm that VAT fraud is an occupation often more profitable than arms trafficking, drug trafficking or prostitution, making money on it. I would like to tell you that VAT is about PLN 130 billion in the budget, i.e. 44% the entire budget. We're talking about big money. We don't talk about millions, tens of millions, hundreds of millions, we talk about tens of billions. We're talking about the scale that the Supreme Control Board has signalled in its report. It is about the leaking of the system, the fact that we have the right to claim that the flow of money from the budget through this leakage of the system is at the level of up to 80 billion PLN, exceeds 80 billion PLN. There is a huge tax gap that someone has already spoken about today from this speaker, which is twice as large as the EU average. That's the brutal truth. As far as VAT is concerned, we may lose up to PLN 50 billion or even PLN 55 billion per year, ladies and gentlemen, for this gangster activity. There are various studies in this area. If it was about 50 billion, I would say that this money should go to those young people who are sitting in the gallery now, in education, in higher education, in the streets, in health care, in the budget deficit. The budget deficit does not exceed PLN 50 billion, and they are sucking out of our system only because they use various kinds of tricks, but in our opinion this is criminal activity, up to PLN 50 billion, PLN 55 billion. I would like to tell you that our first action, which was taken by the Minister of Justice, today's Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobra, was to bring these offices together after a few years: the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General. And it's a good thing. We discussed in this Chamber various solutions adopted in the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office Act. But there was one very important thing there, namely a completely new policy to combat this type of crime, so to move this fight to national level in the prosecutor's office. This is an extremely important thing. We're not talking about ordinary crime. We're talking about gangsters who use the so-called. White collars, distinguished lawyers, economists, financiers. That's how these crime groups work. In order to fight such organized groups, you need specialised prosecutors. I am pleased that today we have the opportunity to create special investigative teams at the level of the National Public Prosecutor's Office with the participation of experts, the best prosecutors in Poland. I would like to tell you that there is also good institutional cooperation - this is very important - namely cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Development. This is very important information, because, finally, state institutions have started working together for the benefit of citizens - they should always, but maybe today - in this area in order to stop money flow, so that organized crime, i.e. those who participate in this activity, are afraid of the state, and did not make themselves an eldorado of the fact that the state could not fight it. I would like to tell you that there are two types, two methods of extortion of VAT. This applies to the tax due and to the input tax and the refund of the tax. The most common methods of extortion can be highlighted in eight actions, namely the first element is the issuing of invoices by an entity actually existing, which did not perform the act that actually took place, but the taxpayer was someone else. The second element is the issuing of invoices for activities which objectively did not take place at all. Third element: issuing invoices by a completely fictional entity, which was created only to issue these documents. Fourth: issuing invoices and customs documents for an apparent operation, i.e. objectively existing, but concealing another event, which in fact was another transaction. The fifth element is the supply of goods which actually does not leave the country, which delivery is declared as an intra-Community delivery of goods or export. It's about fictitious exports. The sixth element is services provided in the territory of the country which are taxed at the basic rate but are fictionally declared as a zero or reduced rate activity. It's about lowering the tax due. The seventh activity is services which take place in the territory of the country, but are fictitiously declared as being performed outside the territory of the country. It's about a fictional witnessing place. And the eighth element, i.e. declaring the supply of goods not listed in Annex 11 to the Act on the tax on goods and services as covered by the national reverse charge. It's the so-called. fictitious lack of subjectivity. Regardless of the need to counter these practices, I would like to stress very strongly that it is necessary to combat VAT fraud through criminal instruments. So far we have had such a situation that in such cases the Tax Code was used, where the threat was ridiculously low, because the penalty could have been up to 10 years, and in a special situation, namely when it was extremely sharpened under Article. 38 § 2 of the Tax Criminal Code. So the criminals didn't have to, they couldn't be afraid of it. Often justice has not come to those who have been or are the organisers of this kind of activity. Of course, as with the previous project, we have also examined what this situation is like in other countries. And we have two cases. Great Britain - for the kind of action we are discussing today, it is possible to sentence life imprisonment. For life. And in the United States, I would like to remind you, for example, of the punishment that was imposed on Bernard Madoff, even 150 years can be punished. May I? Yes, you can. [[But in total.]] In total, not in total, but the punishment is, Your Marshal. I would like to say that a few weeks ago, here from this pulpit, I answered the question, I think, of the Kukiz formation15, whether a limitation institution is needed at all or whether to apply it in the case of such economic scandals and such frauds. Of course, we do not know of a system where the statute of limitations does not apply in such cases. But this is also a voice in some sense of society that demands a ruthless confrontation with such criminals. In order to illustrate a practice, I will quote data relating to the years 2014 and 2016 in cases where the subject matter of fraud was the collection of VAT at least of high value. They've fallen, ladies and gentlemen, sentences against 253 people. As for those who were sentenced to imprisonment without parole, there were only 31 of them. 31 people against 253. And we're talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the billions that come out of our budget. In 360 cases, in 2014 and 2015, preparatory proceedings were carried out, the subject of which was to extort an undue refund of VAT of at least high value - in 360 cases - in which the total amount of VAT collected was almost PLN 10 billion according to the information provided to us by the National Public Prosecutor's Office. Of course, the audit authorities, the tax authorities - today we talked about it - have detected fictional invoices. This amount is becoming higher: 2013 - almost PLN 20 billion, 2014. - almost PLN 34 billion, 2015. - almost PLN 82 billion. We're talking about a giant operation. Giant. With regard to the concrete solutions that have been adopted in the draft, first of all, we propose that criminal offences relating to VAT fraud be covered by specific rules of ordinary criminal law, while maintaining the possibility of qualifying behaviour with less social harm under the provisions of the Tax Criminal Code, in particular its Article. 62 § 1 and 2. The aim of the project is also to focus on combating and combating crime involving the creation of false, unreliable documents which concern facts that may be relevant for the determination of public debt. It follows from these assumptions that the formula for the gradation of types of prohibited, basic and qualified acts has been adopted. We're taking it here on this project. I am in a hurry to reassure you that there will be an amendment that we will make during the legislative process, but I will say that in a moment, precisely because of the consultation we have had with the business community. We're open to a conversation, just to talk constructively, not to say it's against entrepreneurs. The qualification of these types of prohibited acts shall be subject to the amount of the total amount of duty shown on the invoice. We assume that offences involving action in respect of invoices for higher amounts of dues are intended to lead to a higher level of undue profit. Given that the good protected by criminal law is in this case the reliability of documents, and in specific situations it may happen that, despite reference in the invoice to the total amount of duty of significant or great value, the unlawful asset benefit is relatively low, a provision which provides for a privileged type of act, a minor accident may be used. It's a design art. 270a § 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of 3rd Penal Code. The use of lower-weight qualifications may take place regardless of the amount specified on the invoice, because it is also possible to predict situations in which invoices of even multi-million-dollar amounts will not have significantly negative effects in practice. We are aware that the proposed criminal threat of crimes related to the charges of high total value indicated in invoices is the case of these crimes at risk of the most severe penalties in Polish criminal law. But here, in the media, there is often a recent example of murder - that is, that the punishment will be like that for murder - we also need to point out an article. 310 §1, or falsifying e.g. banknotes, money, where the penalty is very, very high, if I remember this numbering correctly. In accordance with the principle of proportionality as set out in Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution, as I have already mentioned in the previous paragraph, of course we must take into account certain circumstances and respect, which is obvious, constitutional freedoms and rights. These restrictions may only be laid down in a law where they are necessary in a democratic state for its security or public order, environmental protection, health, public morality, freedom and rights of others. In this case, however, I would like to stress very strongly that we are dealing with an attack on the foundations of the state. It's about the amounts that are sucked out of our budget. The necessity of the measures adopted by the legislator is expressed in the fact that they will protect certain values in a manner or to a degree that could not be achieved by other measures. In this case, I am using the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 26 January 1993. I think this is exactly what we're dealing with here. The losses of the State Treasury - this is an illustration - are caused by VAT fraud on a very high scale, are very high and significantly felt in the budgetary system of the whole country. As I said, it concerns even tens of billions of zlotys. Therefore, these actions should be dealt with in one order with the most serious crimes against the Republic of Poland. Hence we signal these punishments, even a separate sentence of a kind 25 years imprisonment. The bill provides for the addition to the Penal Code of a special form so-called. fraud of a material document in the form of an invoice as to the facts which may be relevant for determining the amount of the public debt or the reimbursement or reimbursement of any other claim of a tax nature. According to the draft article. 270a of the Penal Code would be forgery or processing in order to use an authentic invoice for facts that may be relevant for determining the amount of the public debt or the reimbursement or reimbursement of any other tax duty or for using such invoice as authentic. The basic threat would be higher than in the article. 270 Penal Code, which stands for the basic type of fraud of a material document, in the form of a sentence of imprisonment from 6 months to 8 years. We also predicted in this example the type of qualified, which is determined due to the great value of the total amount of receivable, which includes an invoice, or making the crime a permanent source of income, because it is a crime, and we also provide for a privileged type, as I mentioned. As far as intellectual falsehood is concerned, the basic assumption of the construction of the art. 271a The Penal Code is the link between the criminality of the offence and the value of the total amount of the claim, which is included in the invoice or invoice, and not in the amount of the amount of the loss of public debt. This is a situation where we do not have time to wait on the proceedings that are being conducted by the tax authority. And it is simpler, more real, and it can indeed be assumed that such solutions will achieve the objectives. Otherwise, things would probably be going on for a very, very long, much longer time. The draft shall also introduce the form of the qualified offences referred to in Article. 270a § 1 and Article 1 271a § 1 The Penal Code in respect of invoices or invoices containing the amount of total receivable, the value or total value of which is greater than - in the project is recorded - five times the amount which determines the value of the property, I understand that it is the amount of PLN 5 million. But here in this case, ladies and gentlemen, we do not rule out an amendment. We're going to want to raise this level to ten times the amount of property of great value, just after the consultation. This type of act would apply to the members of the largest organised criminal groups whose activities have the most serious consequences for the property interests of our country, and this would be a crime which would be punishable by imprisonment from the years 5 to 15 or by a specific sentence, a 25-year sentence of imprisonment. In order to further link the property consequences of the conviction with the damage caused by the perpetrators, the proposed provision of the Article. 277b Criminal Code in case of conviction for the offence referred to in Article. 270a § 1 or § 2, Article 271a § 1 or § 2 or Article. 277a The Penal Code provides for the possibility of fined in addition to imprisonment of up to 3 000. daily rates. In view of the fact that, from a formal point of view, the crimes against the reliability of documents, in this case, invoices are, of course, separated in a visible perspective from their consequences in the form of a reduction in tax duties, indicated in the types of acts of the amount, relate to the invoice or invoices listed and are not subject to examination of the actual value, as I have already told you, if, of course, that is the condition, these goods or services actually exist. Total amount of the claim is the sum of the net value of the goods or services and the amount of the tax. As for the next case that concerns this project, it is a question of the responsibility of those who accidentally made mistakes. Here we often signal what will happen when the entrepreneur makes a mistake by accident. He didn't want it, but it happened. To err is human, each of us is human. I'd like to calm down the businessmen. These crimes are deliberate. In order to apply criminal liability, it will be necessary not only to show the marks of the types of acts in question in the form of material or intellectual falsehood, but also the marks of the persons concerned. It's very important. So what was his intention, or was he going to commit this act? The perpetrator must be fully aware that he is forging or rewriting an invoice, using such an invoice as authentic, or issuing an invoice or invoice, stating untrue facts that may be relevant to the determination of the amount of the public debt or the reimbursement or reimbursement of any other tax duty. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 277c and 277d of the Criminal Code are designed to break down the solidarity of criminal groups which act to extortion. When account is taken of the existing interpersonal links and the interdependence of the activities of these persons aimed at tax fraud, it is desirable to institutionalise the possibility of a specific relaxation of repression in relation to those persons who choose to express the so-called. an active regret in a certain form or will repay an unlawful asset benefit. This latter condition will be linked to the need for the procedural authority to determine the amount of the asset benefit it has obtained. It is worth noting, however, that the projector has provided for the possibility that only a substantial part of this benefit may be repaid by the perpetrator in so far as it depends on the possibility of making independent arrangements in the criminal proceedings concerned. As regards the case concerning the possibility of ordering procedural checks and recording the content of telephone calls, Article. 237 The Code of Criminal Procedure, these similar arrangements should be addressed in relation to the possibility of carrying out operational and exploratory activities. Hence the proposal to introduce these types of prohibited acts into the catalogues specified in the laws providing for such acts by the Police, Central Anti-corruption Office, Tax Intelligence, Border Guard, Military Police. The point is to make it more effective to detect and prosecute tax fraud. It is necessary to extend the catalogue of offences for which it is possible to order the procedural control and fixation of the content of telephone calls and to carry out operational and exploratory activities by means of the proposed actions. It's about the gravity of crimes that cause multi-billion-dollar losses to the budget. Using this kind of solution, we really have a chance to fight this, I mean for example tax carousels, which is extremely difficult. I spoke to the warden from the Department of the Ministry of Justice for a while before I went to the stand. These are extremely difficult from the trial side, because there are a number of different types of actors and to someone who runs the whole group, often we are not really able to reach. The pillars that are on the way sometimes don't even know they're involved. How are we supposed to fight this kind of crime? That's why we're proposing this kind of solution. The draft also proposes to extend the catalogue of offences for which police and police officers may take operational control of the offences against justice referred to in Article. 233.240 of the Penal Code. I would like to say to you that, in this respect, we are only really extending the possibility of doing this kind of activity to include these crimes, the new types that we are introducing into the Penal Code. There is no other way in which we can fight this kind of crime. We're open to a conversation, we're open to a constructive, factual conversation. Please, this is an appeal to everyone not to scare Polish entrepreneurs that this is a project aimed at them. This is a project aimed at gangsters, organized crime groups. This is a project that is designed to protect our citizens from all kinds of phenomena. These phenomena are particularly dangerous, because it is an attack on the foundations of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u217	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to speak. I had information that students from the Pruszian school team were listening to our discussions, but I think they've already left the room. So I greet those countries who are now at the gallery. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print No 888. The project concerns the inclusion of criminal offences related to VAT fraud by specific rules of ordinary criminal law, while respecting the possibility of qualifying them in the event of less social harm to acts under the rules of the Tax Criminal Code. The addition of a special form to the Penal Code is foreseen. material falsehood, as well as the introduction into the Criminal Code of crime so-called. intellectual falsehood and the introduction of a qualified form of the aforementioned. crimes, the relaxation of criminal repression in the case of so-called "criminal repression'. active regret, enabling operational activities, process control and recording of telephone conversations. This government submission, of course, corresponds to the need to effectively counter VAT fraud. These methods mainly concern, as has been said here, two types of tax, i.e. tax due and input tax, and tax reimbursement. It is necessary to use criminal instruments, as there are a number of methods - very detailed ones already described by my previous speaker - to extort VAT. The figures that have been quoted, which indicate how much the state budget loses every year for this reason, indicate even geometric progress, because if it was several billion zlotys a few years ago, in 2015 it is already over 81 billion zlotys, which is an estimated number and most likely even more, but not all losses can be precisely calculated. In this respect, the existing sanctions under the Tax Code should be considered insufficient, since this Code provides as a fundamental penalty for imprisonment from 5 days to 5 years, and only in specific cases may there be a tightening of the penalty, but not exceeding 10 years. So this project provides for the inclusion of VAT offences - let's put it this way - in the Penal Code. There is a question of systematics whether this matter really should be included in the chapter on crimes against documents. In the opinion of the Supreme Court concerning this project, doubts were expressed as to whether it should indeed be so. I think that this is a matter for further discussion in the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification, but regardless of where they will be placed in the criminal code system, it is obvious that these rules need to be introduced. On this occasion, changes in the vocabulary of statutory terms were also envisaged, i.e. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 115 criminal code. The concept of significant damage, i.e. the value at the time of the act exceeding 200 000. zł will be equivalent to the concept of a significant value resulting precisely from an object which is specified in the legal act indicated in the invoice. The concept of great damage will also be the same as the concept of great value, i.e. an amount exceeding PLN 1 million. In the Minister's speech, it has already been pointed out that the criminal tax rules in the European Union are much more stringent. In the UK, the primary threat to VAT offences is punishment up to the age of 7, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whereas, of course, it is possible to decide - in the case of a conspiracy - life sentence. I request, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice to refer this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u219	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marcin Święcicki will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the deficits and the deterioration of the state budget due to VAT fraud, we share the diagnosis that these frauds are quite large in scale and that it is important to combat them. This is important for the budget itself, for its income, as well as for those entrepreneurs who pay taxes fairly, thus eliminating unfair competition against them. On the other hand, it raises doubts that the main direction of repairing this system is to tighten penalties against such crimes and make them a separate category of crimes. Why do such doubts arise? First of all, this is because the detection of these perpetrators is quite small, as has already been said here. There are poles, there are fake companies, these companies arise and disappear like bushes. I have read the report of the NIK, which you refer to, and it does not refer to increasing penalties as an effective method of combating VAT losses, but only to the need to reduce the response time of the tax authorities, to make a central invoice register, to introduce a model of shared VAT payments, to create a special section on. organised fraud when it comes to the tax scale. That would be an effective tool, i.e. detection. We need to catch these perpetrators, not those perpetrators who are able to determine, and very few are able to determine them, as it turns out, to increase these penalties. This is the first fundamental doubt. The second is that you are introducing a terminology according to which an invoice can be considered false e.g. where a person has qualified an economic activity for an activity at a different rate. Such situations, when the taxpayer interprets differently than the tax office, very often, unfortunately, happen because we have different tax rates. I will remind you that for a very long time there has been a case concerning suppliers of wardrobes, tax offices have even issued various interpretations, and there has been a terrible disturbance and there has been harm to many carpenters in Poland who have been paid higher rates, although they have applied lower rates. So now what? They're just gonna go to jail. [[They're off.]] There are doubts about lease rates, recently there has been some dispute, with insurance, that I will no longer mention the businessman Klusce of Optimus, who eventually stopped running his business, but today he would probably still be in jail if the law were in force. Then there is the problem who will be punished. You're saying the person who's going to issue the invoice. Well, often the invoice is issued by a technical worker, he may not know that the boss is making any combinations and that the product that is allegedly exported is not exported at all, that it was placed there completely different things to be sent than it was given in receipts of such or others. So, in fact, the person who benefits from this should be punished, who is the source of this fraud, who cheats, and not the employee who writes invoices on the basis of the documentation he gets in the company. Then, ladies and gentlemen, the question of proportionality. You do mention proportionality, but if for rape, for paedophilia, for some, I don't know, torture or other things are lower punishments than crimes against property, and for a crime against property you apply, although in cases of organised crime, a penalty such as murder, there is probably no such thing in other civilized countries, such penalties of 25 years. This was pointed out by the National Judicial Council that this interferes with the entire proportionality of the system of penalties for breaching such values or other values. Finally, it's about operational resources. Generally speaking, the application of operational techniques, telephone taps to such crimes seems justified to me, but in this term of office, you have weakened control of special services at the same time. Unfortunately, not only in Poland, but in everyone, I would say, the country's special services tend to do things that shouldn't be done, to use them for other purposes, especially when control over them is weakened. So this point, although it should be applied, raises doubts in this context, when parliamentary control over special services is very limited. In fact, we have a lot of doubts about this way of fighting crime, and we are hoping that the Ministry of Finance will be involved here and will present its solutions, which might actually be more effective in detecting and catching the actual perpetrators, and not enough. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the wide and free scope of application of the very high penalties you propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u222	Someone left a tablet here. I hate pills. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, it is my pleasure to present our position on print number 888. I'm not gonna focus on the details, because the minister I really like has given us such propaganda here that I've hardly believed it. [[Applause]] Minister, let me tell you, I once told you in this courtroom that entrepreneurs are treated like dogs, and now they're going to be treated almost like dead dogs. And I don't agree with you unless there are entrepreneurs in this room... Ladies and gentlemen, anybody from business? I don't agree that they say that you have to apply such penalties to chase con men. And I'll tell you why. Well, today, if you consider the gross invoice, because that's what we have to call it, the entrepreneur will pay off more to rape the tax controller because he will get less penalty in suspension. I have another question for you. Not further than today, there was a discussion in the Parliament about the collection of VAT by the tax authorities. Since 2015, there is a provision that half is paid by the taxpayer and half is paid by the same pillar. And I'm asking you, what is this 50-50 split on? Only those who have committed a criminal act can be punished. And this, Minister, raises my greatest concern that in the article. Point (c) and (d) of point 277 You're leading to discretion, which means you'll be able to waive the penalty if the same entrepreneur starts talking before or during. The only question is when he's talking really and when he's not. Because, you know, it's an introduction to the bill, to this article again, to the institution of the Crown witness, which could be accepted, but only on one condition that the Crown witness, or the repentant person, talks about the mechanism of crime and possibly crimes, and the law enforcement authorities absolutely need to find evidence. The testimony of a coroner or one who is repentant should not be evidence in court because we come, ladies and gentlemen, to the fiction that honest people are locked up. Yes, Minister, I'll read your names right away. I don't know if you're watching the State program. Do you know Mrs. Krystyna Chojnacka, who committed suicide against VAT? Do you know Mr. Richard Gasparski, Mr. Marcin Kołodziejczyk, Mr. Mirosław Kulak, Mr. Łukaszewski, many others who no longer have companies, and Mrs. Krystyna Chojnacka is no longer in this world? We're all for punishment, and that's harsh punishment. Okay, I agree with that, but I don't agree with discretion and the creation of so-called in the future. organized crime groups where prosecutors specialized to put people in jail and get their statements out of them, because it's gonna look the same. Besides, I'd like to draw your attention, Minister, and write it down well, not just punishment will scare the taxpayers away, but also prosecuting them by the prosecutors. In the meantime, let me give you an example. How do you explain that in 2012 Mr Jan Niemczyk, sygn. Act VII KA 879/12 of the District Court in Bielsko-Biała, to this day does not serve 5.5 years of the absolute sentence of imprisonment for the forgery of 500 VAT invoices in the amount of PLN 30 million? How did it happen that the District Attorney's Office in Bielsko-Biała did not open an investigation until 2004, since the crime had already been informed in 2000 and tolerated further crimes of millions on its own? I will even answer you - because the cheater had to wash 30 million first, place them in another company by moving from Jan Berg's company in Bielsko-Biała to the medical clinic in Żory. You've known the subject since 2000. It's 2016. You didn't do anything. Another question. Why didn't the District Attorney's Office in Bielsko-Biała take over this clinic in Żory for tax liability and she could have done it? How did it happen that this multimillion-dollar frauder, since 2000, defended the District Attorney in Bielsko-Biała Zbigniew Twardowski, who killed after a drunken man in 1994 and only after 10 years he graciously sentenced him to a suspended sentence, and with that sentence [[♪ The bell ♪]] He was transferred to the Hawk, where he worked as a district attorney?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u223	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u224	Next case, another case involving the same prosecutor, a crime - 600,000. VAT. Recently, in 2013, Mr. Prosecutor entered into an agreement, client, criminal, paid 20,000. Evil, and he ratted on innocent people.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u225	Thank you, sir, you have exhausted your speaking time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u226	Minister! You have to be able to look for evidence, you have to give up all the discretionary things, and then we can talk about penalties.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u227	A voice on behalf of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u228	Otherwise, no. With discretion, with the so-called. organized crime groups - no.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u229	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u230	The Kukiz Club won't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u231	Mr Mirosław Pampuch will take the floor on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a position on a government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. Mr Jachnik has already talked about this. Minister, demagogy, demagogy and demagogy again. So much for your speech. Back to the bill, you said we shouldn't scare businessmen. But how to not scare businessmen, if these rules, I'm talking about art here. 171a, and the justification of this project, clearly indicate that taxpayers will be able to be punished for error in tax rates. You wrote it yourself, even you read it from the justification of this project - for a mistake at stake. What's more, how do you tell the difference by not telling the truth about the facts? What is more, you said that there might be an amendment, but then you reiterated the definition of a total value greater than that of great value by referring to total invoices. Total invoice, Minister - PLN 5 million plus VAT at 8% That's PLN 5.4 million. That's a $400,000 budget reduction. zł. VAT invoice - 4 million plus 23% VAT is 920,000. zł. So for an invoice of less than PLN 5 million total value, you provide for a penalty of up to 8 years. On the other hand, for an invoice above PLN 5 million, through which the decrease is only 400 thousand. zł, you predict three times more punishment, punishment up to 25 years old. It's just a misunderstanding. There are still many such elements in this law, which is simply a bad law, poorly prepared. For you have left from the end. Instead of improving material law, the Goods and Services Tax Act, and sealing the regulations there, you want to start fighting fraud against taxpayers and through the fight against entrepreneurs, because that is unfortunately what you should call it. These penalties really violate the principle of proportionality of the criminal response, definitely so. You referred here to examples of the United Kingdom and the United States, but you yourself state the countries of the European Union: Italy - up to 6 years, Greece - up to 10 years, Great Britain - up to 10 years, Minister, that is from the justification of the government project, from the table I read it, Denmark - no more than 6 years. That's criminal responsibility. You also said that 232 proceedings were ongoing, 31 of which ended in absolute imprisonment and criminal liability for up to 10 years. Why don't you take advantage of this possibility of criminal repression, just right away you want to go to a higher level to punish up to 25 years, and with such ambiguous rules, just ill-prepared? Therefore, the club Modern requests that this bill be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u233	Thank you. Your remaining time will be used by Marshal Barbara Dolniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u234	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that it is a bad project, because it is poorly prepared, not only reflects the content of the rules, but also the content of the justification that the Minister quoted. The Minister said that high penalties would be a panacea for such crimes. Well, no, and you, Minister, know that very well, because you yourself were a judge a little while ago. First of all, the unsub is terrified of being caught and quickly tried. That's what it's supposed to be about, catching the perpetrator quickly and judging him quickly. You say that the fines in the Tax Criminal Code, which was created just for tax offences, are low and that this is the motivation to change the rules. But there are large penalties, both in terms of fines, which are higher than in the Penal Code, as well as in terms of prison sentences, and yet there is the possibility of a joint decision. The tax code is so shaped that it aims not only to punish but also to compensate for the damage, because above all, that is what we want - to compensate for the financial damage to the State Treasury. You're saying that the police and prosecutor's office are gonna do better than law enforcement, but art. 151c § 1 of the Treasury Penal Code says the financial authorities are conducting proceedings under the supervision of the prosecutor, and the prosecutor can oversee not only the investigation, but also the investigation. And the police are where they found it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us remember that talking about mass is not an argument, because in every case we have to remember the principle of individualization of guilt. Mass is not equivalent to severe penalties, because in every case we evaluate the facts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u235	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party, presented his voice in writing. Mr Ireneus will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print No. 888. The aim of the proposed regulation is to focus on combating and combating crime by creating false, unreliable documents that concern facts that may be relevant for the determination of public debt. The intentions of this law are right. The tax gap, which the tax authorities of the Polish state report each year, is so large that extraordinary measures are needed. This situation is even worrying, so that the intentions set out in the bill are right. However, I must draw attention and agree in part with what Mr Marcin Święcicki from the Civic Platform, Mr Jerzy Jachnik from the Kukiz club15 or my esteemed speakers from the Modern Club. This is particularly true of issues relating to the protection of citizens' rights as entrepreneurs. We need to weigh certain things, to bear in mind, however, to prosecute criminals, minimizing threats to honest entrepreneurs, who, moreover, the Minister himself mentioned during his speech, may make mistakes. While crimes are qualified as deliberate, practice may go in this direction, that before someone proves that he is innocent, he may have problems with the justice system for many years, as well as the loss of the company and the entire estate. Such examples were mentioned by Mr Jerzy Jachnik. The project assumes that VAT fraud is covered by specific criminal law rules, which provide for severe penalties, up to 25 years of imprisonment, while maintaining the possibility of qualifying for VAT in the event of less social harm from the provisions of the Tax Penal Code. It was also a matter of not preserving the proportion of the penalty risk, but what I pointed out at the very beginning of my speech, this extraordinary situation that exists in the Polish reality concerning this tax gap, requires such extraordinary measures to be applied. Let us hope that this will also be a kind of prevention on the basis of a deterrent from the intention to commit such crimes. The data provided in the Supreme Audit Chamber's report on VAT fraud is particularly clear about the alarming extent of VAT fraud. Against the placing on the market of invoices documenting fictitious activities presented to the High House in June this year. The report showed that the value of the contested invoices increased from PLN 18.7 billion in 2013 to PLN 81.9 billion in 2015. Only last year, 360 thousand were revealed. such invoices, and their average value was approx. 227,000. zł. Therefore, NIK points out that it is necessary to urgently introduce interrelated actions that effectively counter this phenomenon and combat it, while using the strength of various tools selected for the specifics of the Polish market. In the case of VAT offences, the dimension of a threatening penalty, which should deter potential criminals, but equally important, and even more important, is the inevitability of the penalty, in my opinion. The introduction of the mechanisms used by the police, the prosecutor's office and the tax system will result in effective prosecution of such crimes as well as in the reduction of crime. Without fulfilling this condition, even if we imposed a penalty in the form of a life sentence, no rule in the code will pass the exam and will not act as a deterrent to criminals to a satisfactory degree. Only the combination of the introduction of strict penalties into the legal order and their inevitability will result in the result that the applicants intend to achieve. It would be a good solution, Minister, as I have already mentioned here when examining the information of the President of NIK, to establish a central institution for the register of invoices. The reduction of the VAT gap is certainly not conducive to the increasing complexity of this tax and the numerous interpretations of the rules by the tax authorities. This fact is absolutely used by cheaters, for, as you know, fish are well caught in cloudy water. That's why I'm looking forward to it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] implementation of government announcements aimed at simplifying the tax system. The Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the bill be submitted to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u237	Thank you very much. Three Members joined the questions. I am closing the list of Members. I'm setting the time for the question - one minute. Mr Święcicki from the Civic Platform Club will be the first to ask the question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In one of the articles that you are proposing, you wrote: if someone has given a non-truth that may be relevant for determining the amount of public debt or reimbursement. Well, I wanted to remind you of what I mentioned, namely that dispute with the producers of recess cases, which for some time were treated as a permanent part of the apartment, so they had a low rate, and at some point began to be treated as furniture, which could be put in, removed, and therefore a higher rate had to be paid. But there was a dispute between carpenters and IRS. And now how will this dispute be fought? Do they have to go to the courts now and explain to them that they have set the rate that the tax offices have accepted so far, only a different interpretation has suddenly appeared? So this is a fundamental question. And the second, if NIK clearly writes in his report, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that there is no detection that the vast majority of the perpetrators are untraceable - most of the perpetrators are untraceable, I wanted to stress - how high penalties are to improve the detection of the perpetrators if they are not detected at all?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u239	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Don't you think that going away from the principle of linking criminal liability to false invoices based on tax losses in favour of purely formal errors in the invoice will have very important consequences for entrepreneurs and many human tragedies? Please note that often after a few years, as you have said here, according to the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, the correct rate of tax is fixed. Of course, in order to speed up the criminality, you will rely only on the actual misrepresentation of the invoice tax rate and, after 4 years, the Supreme Administrative Court will find, however, that the correct application of the tax rate has been applied. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The stakes. What's going on in these situations? Really, this bill is unprepared and evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u241	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Invoice crimes are currently a nightmare of the Polish tax system. They cause enormous losses, yielding quick profit, which is also a low risk of punishment. The introduction of specific types of crime will certainly clarify the situation in the area of legal qualifications. In addition, the draft law proposes amending laws on law enforcement and fiscal control. The proposed solutions are designed to increase detection and facilitate prosecution of tax fraud. Among other things, there is a problem. such operations as recording phone calls, because Law and Justice likes to record Poles and punish instead of counteracting crimes. And yet the source of the problem is VAT alone. Its essence creates a loophole to make it possible [[♪ The bell ♪]] extortion. What has the Ministry of Finance done so far to control this? The PiS in its multiannual financial plan of the country, sent to the European Commission in April this year, established the proceeds from VAT sealing by 2019.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u243	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u244	...up to 34 billion. How much influence do we have today, one year after the election? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u245	Thank you very much. In this way, the list of MEPs has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Michał Wójcik, will speak. Minister, in your previous speech, you have exhausted almost all the time you have spent on this point, I call for a summary.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u246	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry for this, but this project is extremely important in my view. I'm sorry I ran out of this limit, I'm gonna try to answer the questions a little bit. Often all the questions that have been asked here were about what would happen if someone made a mistake. Excuse me, but I read most of the questions or reflections that you shared when the positions of individual clubs were presented. Well, once again, these crimes must be deliberate. It will be necessary to demonstrate the identity of the perpetrator's intention to commit the act in order to assign the offence. The unsub must want this, he must include his intention, so it's not like if someone makes a mistake, he'll answer and he'll put himself under criminal responsibility. Mr Marcin Święcicki e.g. That's what he was talking about. So the crime must have a deliberate character. If there are interpretation doubts, whatever, that means that you should not be held responsible, then it is obvious. The taxpayer needs to know what's at stake, he needs to be sure about that stake. Of course, sometimes there are different situations, life is unfortunately also colored steaks. Unfortunately, in some cases, which you spoke about, which resulted in various tragic situations. But, I'm sorry, this is a question that often lies in the area of independent power, which is the judiciary. You can no longer expect us to be responsible for the decision taken by the Ministry of Justice. We only set a framework, but somebody else is punishing. That's what the independence of power is all about. On the other hand, it is very important to coordinate the work of the services, and here I am also referring to what the Member said - coordination. This is what we talked about today, and it was criticized by you, this administration that is being created. That's what's been gone for years. Mr Pampuch - Mr Pampuch - once again, I do not want to quote those sentences which I have already quoted on the basis of my supporting materials, but it must be a crime, the perpetrator must include this intention, the perpetrator must want to commit a crime. So if there are all kinds of doubts that show that there was a mistake, then he's not gonna answer for it. There is no crime at all, unless I have not understood what you have said, but I think I have. The point is, a person has to want to commit an act, he has to want to. Intentional crime, it's very important. I say again, life is about sometimes errors in invoices. On the other hand, it is worth to say on this occasion, this is also the answer to this charge by Marshal Dolniak, and in his club speech he also said that it is a question of punishment, about the possibility of imposing high penalties. The sentence can actually be up to 25 years of imprisonment here, and I spoke about it in detail. What's today? Penal Code, Art. 62 § 1. Those who, contrary to the obligation, do not issue an invoice or a performance account, issue them in a defective manner or refuse to issue them shall be subject to a fine of up to 180 rates. § 2. Any person issuing an invoice or an account referred to in paragraph 1 in an irregular manner or using such a document shall be subject to a fine of up to 240 daily rates. Is this a just punishment in a social sense? That's also the question we need to ask ourselves. Thank you very much for sharing your suggestions, not always in line with our expectations, but that is the legislative process. Today we have a serious problem. We're not gonna fight, I'm sorry, we're not gonna be able to fight gangsters who turn billions of zlotys through punishment in a form like the one I just quoted here, that's impossible. Even by means of a penalty of 10 years, that is, the highest penalty which can be imposed from the Tax Penal Code, when sharpening this penalty, i.e. under certain conditions. Mrs Navel is talking about wiretaps. Member, to you, the Platform will no longer be matched. Check your stats, who was most likely to eavesdrop on the Poles. [[Once...]] Of course, I'm sorry about the irony. How are we supposed to fight this kind of crime, Commissioner? I told you what kind of money it was. This is also the answer for many people who have asked us questions. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, whom I also like and respect very much. Mr President, you say that this is as punishment as murder, that it is better to do something bad to an official. No, sir, there are also provisions such as Article. 310 § 1. If you are, for example. Forge a $50 bill, then what's the penalty? 25 years in prison. It's nothing, is it? [[I don't think there's any punishment right now.]] A separate genre, 25 years of imprisonment, that's what I'm saying. [[Why is there no penalty for such multimillion-dollar extortion?]] As for the entrepreneurs you asked about, yes, we contacted, I personally, the craftsmen, the merchants. I also got word that the BCC businessmen also signaled. Hence, among others. there will be a correction in one case, this multiple. There won't be five times, just ten times. I've already signaled that during my speech. We'll see what other backgrounds will be like. It's not, I say again, aimed at entrepreneurs. Let's not put this on the tracks. You have signaled that there are various cases, specific, very dramatic, with which you have met, after all you have fought for justice. Yeah, but why blame the Ministry of Justice for that? It's not our fault. This is the domain of a separate authority, an authority independent of us, according to the division, of the article. Ten constitutions. It is not us who are responsible for certain situations as executives, and the Member knows this very well, but we can ask the question of what alternative we have. That's a question I can ask you, too, Marshal Dolnyak. What is the alternative to this situation that is? We've been reforming the justice system for 27 years. After 27 years, we say that the tax gap is twice the EU average, that tens of billions of zlotys are coming out. So how do we fight organized crime? You want us to educate them? They're not afraid of it. [[Detectability.]] Detectability? Of course, that's why there was one tax administration project today. You protested. As for Mr Pampuch from the Modern Club. Less important issues were raised there. You've given specific situations, but that's what's regulated by our regulations. This is a minor case where this punishment is relatively low, i.e. Up to 2 years of imprisonment. Punishment may, of course, be in the form of a fine, but this highest penalty is punishment of up to 2 years imprisonment. We're giving this gate when it comes to the different situations that are. On the other hand, I very much regret that there has been an opinion on the imposition of penalties on taxpayers. No, sir. It's punishment and threatening, actually, to gangsters. They're not taxpayers. Taxpayers are people who pay fair and fair taxes to the state, for which we do. We can debate here. For these taxpayers, we need to change the rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u247	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Member in corrigendum? [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum. I was misunderstood.]] Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Nothing more vicious. You, the Ministry of Justice, when preparing this bill, treat taxpayers as criminals by introducing these rules, these unclear rules. It is not what you said here, because I specifically asked about the way in which a significant amount was determined from the invoice, about the liability arising precisely from the basis of these provisions for the total amount of the invoice. It's not adequate for tax thinners. You've moved away from tax thinners... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Yes, that is our philosophy.]] ...just in the direction of the total amount, which causes such a situation that often less depletion will result in a significantly greater liability based on these provisions. It will not be less weight in these regulations, as you suggest here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u249	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. The main objective of today's draft amendment to the Penal Code is to reduce the VAT gap and improve its collection. The problem has been growing in recent years. According to the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2013, tax control authorities detected fictional invoices for PLN 19.7 billion, in 2014 for PLN 33.7 billion and in 2015. - for the amount of PLN 81.9 billion already. At the same time, at the same time, with such a large scale of the phenomenon in the years 2014 and 2016 in cases which were the subject of extortion of an undue refund of VAT of at least high value, there were sentences against 253 persons, of which only 31 were sentenced to imprisonment without conditional suspension of their execution. They rightly point out, therefore, that the existing legal status and practice of the judicial authorities under the provisions of the Tax Code are far insufficient and not ensuring the protection of the basic interests of the State Treasury. The new regulations are intended to significantly tighten the penalties for tax fraud. Strict sanctions will apply to fictional invoices, and offences and fraud-related offences are to be covered by specific rules of ordinary criminal law. With regard to the most budget-related fraud, people involved in criminal offences will have to face a prison sentence of between 5 and 25 years. Without a doubt, more severe penalties are needed in this avalanche. At this point, however, it cannot be asked whether 25 years of imprisonment is an adequate and proportionate penalty to the burden of the act committed. Isn't it better to focus on the recovery by the Treasury of extorted amounts? In our view, such a high threat of punishment cannot be considered adequate to the prohibited act described in the amendment under discussion today. Note that 25 years of imprisonment is the penalty provided for in the Penal Code for the most serious crimes, e.g. homicide. Moreover, even in the case of other crimes against health and life, such a threat is in vain. Regardless of the upper limit of the statutory threat, it should be borne in mind that a very strict lower limit has yet to be set. Thus, in principle, the court will not be able to impose a penalty lower than that provided for in the provision. This reminds us of times well past and meat and sugar scandals. At that time, disproportionate penalties were applied to the seriousness of the act. It should be added that the severity of the penalty provided for in the provision is not directly translated into a fall in crime. Punishment must first and foremost be inevitable. So what if it's raw if it's not applied or applied after 15 years of trial? On several occasions, in cases of VAT fraud, allegations are made against businesses who have acted lawfully. This is because they were involved in the supply chain, in which at some point someone committed a crime. The law enforcement authorities of all those involved in such a chain treat equally - as working within a criminal group, which is not true in the course of the trial. The application of such strict sanctions as proposed in the bill can be a ricochet in such honest entrepreneurs, leading to the collapse of their activities. Unfortunately, there are no solutions in the whole VAT package that can effectively separate the grain from the chaff, so fair from the dishonest VAT payers. The provisions of the project aimed at breaking down the solidarity of criminal groups involved in VAT fraud should be assessed in a favourable way. The possibility of exceptional relief or withdrawal from enforcement of a penalty against accused persons who will disclose information on such groups and their activities to the authorities should significantly improve the breakdown by the State of criminal groups extorting VAT. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the Parliamentary Club of PSL requests that the project be referred to the committee for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u251	A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will vote on this proposal in the voting block at the next meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act (Print No 815). I ask Mr Jerzy Jachnik to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u252	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Petitions, it is my pleasure to present to the High House a proposal to amend the wording of the Article. 183 § 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In fact, the petition concerns a change in the content of the article. 183 § 1 of the Law of 7 June 1997 on the Code of Criminal Procedure in connection with the content of the article. 41 § 1 Code of conduct in cases of misconduct. The petition entered the Sejm on 17 November 2015 and was positively assessed by the Committee on Petitions and then addressed to the Sejm as a proposal to amend the content of the article. 183 §1 k.p.k., which we present today. The author of the draft amendment, which I am pleased to stress, is the non-governmental organization of the Thomas Jefferson Foundation based in Warsaw, for which I would like to express my sincere thanks. This is how social activity should be seen in a positive way in the area of law-making as well. However, it should be noted that the content of the petition of the above-mentioned foundation is slightly different from that of the committee, which I present today on behalf of that committee. The subject matter of the petition of the Foundation was to change the content and the wording of the c.p.k., and to write down the Code of Conduct in cases of misconduct in such a way that each of these laws should be subject to a separate legal standard, which will clearly indicate that the witness may deviate from the question if the reply could put his or the person closest to him under the responsibility for tax offences or offences. The Commission considered that it would be sufficient to supplement the content of the Article. 183 § 1 on the content of tax offences and offences, in Article. 41 c.p.s.w. there is already a reference to the article. 183 § 1 k.p.k. Art. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 the Constitution says that everyone against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted has the right to defend in all stages of his rights. This is confirmed by the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 19 March 2007, sygn. K 47/05, which shows that the guarantees provided for in Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Constitution refers to all repressive proceedings, and therefore also to cases of misconduct. However, it is regrettable to note that since 2003 the text of the article. 183 § 1 in conjunction with Article. 41 c.p.s.w. He interfered against the art. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2nd Constitution of the Sejm as legislative authority. This case shows with all clarity that the system of law-making in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland is wrong. Ba, it has nothing to do with correct legislation, but only with the current interests of the ruling party. And even worse, for 26 years, this situation has continued to deteriorate. It must be astonishing that such laws have a chance to be established and no one in the Sejm thinks about changing the rules of the Sejm and the way of legislation in the plenary room as well as in committees. Following the party's interests has reached such absurd proportions that there is no room for fair and substantive right-making, while Members focus solely on running towards the speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the Polish Sejm looks like today. This is the Sejm of the legal bubli. And change should start with us. Worse still, the Supreme Court sanctioned the creation of this evil law. According to the wording of the article. 191 of the Constitution, the first President of the Supreme Court has the right to appeal to the Constitutional Tribunal against a law incompatible with the Constitution, and in this case he did not do so. I mean, why? Please, Sejm, after these preliminary remarks, I want to explain what this minor and yet significant change is about. Allow me to quote the current text of the article. 183 § 1 k.p.k.: The witness may deviate from the answer to the question if the answer could expose him or the person closest to him under the responsibility of the offence or the tax offence. Meanwhile, art. 41 § 1 of the Code of Conduct for Offences refers to the possibility for a person or person who is closest to him to an article to refuse to answer a question. 183 § 1 k.p.k. Art. 41 The code of conduct in cases of misconduct says: When taking evidence from a witness' testimony, the provisions apply accordingly - there are various articles mentioned, but I return to the article. 183 - Art. 183 Code of Criminal Procedure. What in practice is the reference in Article. 41 § 1 k.p.s.w. to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 183 means? In short, he forces us, the citizens, in cases of criminal offences and criminal offences, to accuse ourselves or to denigrate the nearest person. In criminal proceedings, a witness and the nearest person to whom criminal or criminal liability may be threatened by a response shall have the right to refuse an answer if he or she is himself or the nearest person liable for criminal liability and are deprived of that right in criminal matters. Meanwhile, the Roman principle implemented in Polish criminal law is clear: no one can be forced to accuse himself. This is confirmed by the ruling of the Supreme Court of 28 January 1975, sygn. IVKR 313/74, i.e. from the communism period. Later, we were deprived of this principle by the democratic Sejm, as well as by the 2004 Supreme Court ruling. The need to change the law in this regard is due to two aspects. First of all, no one should be put in a position of compulsion where he must lie or be told the truth must accuse himself or the person closest to him. And that is the case at present in cases of tax offences. If I lie, for example, that I don't remember, I might be held responsible for making false statements. Secondly, often the case begins with a misdemeanor procedure, but later in the proceedings the legal basis is changed and the person is accused in whole or in part of the Penal Code. However, such two-step proceedings may and may be used intentionally by law enforcement authorities. So first we apply the article from the c.p.s.w. and then, after getting a statement, the citizen is charged with k.k. In such a situation, however, it is already deprived of its rights of defence. Application for amendment of the Article. 183 § 1 k.p.k. in conjunction with Article. 41 § 1 k.p.s.w. It seems most clear when we move on to its assessment from the point of view of criminal law. The witness may refuse to answer in cases of murder or rape, and cannot refuse it in many absurd cases of offences in which law enforcement authorities abuse laws, while in further proceedings, even before courts, the only reliable witnesses, sources of evidence - e.g. reports of excessive noise without determining the level in decibels, imaginary dog sting or speeding tickets. However, these cases, without carrying out any evidence proceedings, shall be ordered to be convicted at classified meetings in pre-trial proceedings and only subject to opposition, for which there are only seven days, by reason of the fact that the case shall be dealt with in general terms at the hearing. The question therefore arises as to why these proceedings are at all at the first stage. This situation is not only unnecessarily involved by courts and law enforcement authorities, but it is too often an abuse of law as a result of unconfirmed reporting, retaliation or revenge against citizens or neighbors. Too often, on the basis of records, notes, statements from law enforcement officers, police officers or city guards who ignore the request of the parties, people who do not have anything in common are convicted, and this is already a criminal offence from law enforcement agencies, which in fact are never responsible for these crimes, states. Another absurdity can be seen if we think about the so-called. half-off actions which, depending on the amount of damage resulting from the act, may be classified as a criminal offence or a criminal offence. Is it justified, then, to ask the petitioners to limit the procedural rights of citizens when the answer to the question may put them under the responsibility of stealing property worth a quarter of the minimum wage, and in the case of property of a value of 1/3 no longer? It should be noted that in the original wording of Article. 183 (1) In contrast to its current content, it was also envisaged that the response should be refused if such an answer could put the witness under the responsibility not only for the offence but also for the offence. A similar rule was also included in the article. 166 k.p.k. of 1969 Although that provision provided for criminal liability, it was generally accepted in case law that the term recognised both criminal and criminal liability. This was confirmed by the Supreme Court in its resolution of seven judges, in its 1973 ruling, sygn. Act VI KZP 80/72. Art. 73 § 3 c.p.s.w. in 1971, he explicitly accepted that the witness might refuse to answer the question when it could put himself or the person closest to him under the responsibility of the offence or offence. As you can see, the problem of self-incrimination and self-denuncing or denouncing of loved ones has been uniformly understood over the years and has not aroused any legal doubts. This situation has changed only as a result of the revision of K.p.k. of 10 January 2003 and at the same time amending the CCPD of 22 May 2003 within the framework of which the text of the Article is to be published. 41 § 1 k.p.s.w. has not changed and continues to refer to the Article. § 183 §1 k.p.k., which has changed. Both acts entered into force on 1 July 2003 and remain in force until now. After the change of C.P.K. and c.p.s.w. Two concepts for the application of Article have emerged in 2003. 41 § 1 k.p.s.w. in connection with the new wording of the Article. 183 § 1 k.p.k. The first allowed the old application of the rules, i.e. the admissibility of the witness' refusal to testify in criminal offences and criminal offences, which was also the result of the article. 42 § 1 of the Constitution, and the other allowed the possibility of a witness averting the question only in cases of criminal offences and criminal offences. This second concept was followed by the Supreme Court in 2004, thus breaking the content of the article. 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland - adopted a resolution in 7-person composition. The Supreme Court in its decision of 30 November 2004, sygn. I KZP 26/04, concluded that appropriate application by virtue of Article. 41 § 1 in infringement proceedings Article. 183 § 1 as amended by the Act of January 2003 amending the Act of K.p.k. does not mean that the person being questioned as a witness in a criminal offence case may be prevented from answering the question if it could put the person closest to it under the responsibility only for the offences. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a 2004 ruling, and it is so strange that it is contrary to the Constitution. It should be pointed out that the Supreme Court has drawn up a very detailed justification in the above order, without regard to the fact that it is breaking the constitution. In the opinion of the committee, the petitions, in order to lift these infringements, the proposed amendment should be addressed and adopted by the Sejm. At this point, it should be mentioned that during the work of the committee, at its last meeting, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Police Headquarters were present, who opposed the proposed change, claiming that this would prevent them from penalising them with over-speed mandates. They found that they were aware that the owners of vehicles, often because of the number of points they had, indicated a person other than the one who actually drove the car. Such a position was criticised by the petition committee because it is unacceptable for law enforcement authorities to consciously punish people who did not commit traffic offences and the penalties were applied only to the statistics and the peace of the police. The Commission also concluded that the police had to use such speed measures to prove the wine. The Commission cannot accept fictitious punishment for the convenience and statistics of the police. Positive opinion on Article 183 § 1 in conjunction with Article. 41 issued the Supreme Court in its opinion of 23 August 2006 and the Ombudsman in his Opinion of 18 July 2006. The subject matter of the bill remains outside the scope of European Union regulation. Draft law k.p.k. is not a project implementing European Union law within the meaning of Article. 95a (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a)) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) (95a) The proposed law also has no impact on public finances, perhaps beyond mandates that are abused. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I request that the proposal be referred to the Commission for further examination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u253	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, contained in print No 815. The amendment proposed by the committee in the Code of Criminal Procedure is intended to include an extension in Article. 183 § 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure the possibility of a witness averting his response also in cases of criminal misconduct and in cases of fiscal misconduct. The representative of the committee, the representative of the applicants, has explained in detail the reasons why this project was submitted and has also identified the nature of the problem. The Law and Justice Club, of course, recognizes this problem. It is difficult to find the ratio legis for the current solution. Because if the Code of Criminal Procedure actually contains the possibility for a witness to avert an answer if it would involve self-incrimination or simply consequences for loved ones in the event of a criminal offence or a tax offence, and there is no possibility in the event of a tax offence, then the problem is. If there is a problem, we must at least try to solve it. I have one question, of course, whether this change should, however, be included in the Code of Criminal Procedure because of some systematicity, because we are introducing the Code of Criminal Procedure at this point in time a criminal offence and a tax offence, whether, as Mr Jachnik mentioned in the petition, this regulation should be included in the Code of Conduct in cases of offences. But I think this is a matter for discussion during further legislative work. And in this situation, of course, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would like to request that the proposal be directed to further legislative work in the committee responsible, as I understand it, for codification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure proposed in print No 815 aims to extend the catalogue of circumstances which constitute the basis for the witness' refusal to answer questions. According to the current wording of the article. 183 The Code of Criminal Procedure may do so if the response could put a witness or a person close to him under the responsibility of a criminal offence or a tax offence. The Committee on Petitions requests that the scope of the Article be regulated. 183 k.p.k. extend also to tax offences and offences. The proposed change should be assessed positively in the opinion of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. It aims to fully implement the principle expressed in Roman paremia: nemo se ipsum accusare tenetur. As well as correctly indicated in the Supreme Court's opinion on this draft law, the proposed amendment will depart from the primacy of the good of justice and be above the relationship with loved ones. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club requests that this project be referred to the committee for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. There's no envoy? [[There isn't.]] Then perhaps Mr Tomasz Romankowski also from the Kukiz club15. Isn't there one? [[Maybe there's a mistake.]] Mr Mirosław Pampuch from the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to take a position on the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. This proposal aims to amend the Article. 183 The Code of Criminal Procedure by adding to the existing wording the possibility of avoiding the answer to the question where granting it would put liability for tax offences or offences. According to Art. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in criminal proceedings must not be forced to testify against or to plead guilty. For these reasons, too. Poselski Club The state-of-the-art proposal to refer the bill to the committee responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u259	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party submitted his vote in writing. Mr Ireneus will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle. And neither is your envoy. [[Voice from the room: He's, he's, he's out there.]] Oh, there it is. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u260	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, submitted by the Committee on Petitions, print No 815. According to the current wording of the article. 183 § 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the witness may deviate from the answer if the reply could expose him or the person closest to him under the responsibility of a criminal offence or tax offence. The proposal proposed by the applicant assumes a new wording of this provision which would allow the witness to refrain from answering the question if the answer could expose him or the person closest to him also to the liability for the offence or tax offence. This is, in my view, the natural consequence of the crime provision. It follows from the conclusion that, if liability for the offence can be waived - in the sense that an answer can be refused - it would be all the more possible to refuse an answer in the event of a case involving a criminal offence or a tax offence. The proposed change deserves full approval. The arguments set out in the explanatory memorandum of the project should be fully divided. As a result of the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 10 January 2003, the legal status which determines the de facto obligation of self-incrimination, i.e. the obligation to testify as a witness in a situation where this may expose a person who is guilty of a criminal offence or tax offence, is contrary to the Roman principle: nemo se ipsum accusare tenetur - no one can be forced to accuse himself. Similarly, the situation is with the people closest to them: there is a specific obligation for witnesses to denounce them. By weighing the value of family unity with the value of the good of justice, I think we should put a greater emphasis on this first value. And that's what this change should be. In the context of this project, it may be disturbing to replicate, once again, the practice that I mentioned from this speaker during the process of the last revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure at the Sejm meeting on 8 June this year. Criminal proceedings, like other types of judicial proceedings and codes of substantive law, should not be subject to frequent modifications for the short period of vacathio legis, which undermines citizens' already low confidence in the institutions of the State. Unfortunately, this is the third amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure since the beginning of this term of office of the Sejm and the second, which is of a clipping nature. Let us try, High Sejm, to avoid such forms of legislative amendment in the future, even in spite of its legitimate intentions, seeking to collect more changes in one project and comprehensive, systemic lawmaking, so as to limit even a little of this legislative madness. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite the reservations raised, taking into account the validity and validity of the regulation in question, the Free and Solidarni Circle will support the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u261	Thank you. Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of enlisted Members. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club, asks the question first. [[There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Therefore, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the proposed changes, a witness will be able to refuse to answer the question if it could put his loved ones at risk. This situation particularly concerns drivers, e.g. The owner of a car which is faster than the speed tracked by a camera must indicate who was driving his car on a given day. When he refuses, he puts himself under the responsibility of not telling the person who committed the crime, because it's usually him or someone in his immediate family. A year ago, the Constitutional Tribunal dealt with the matter of denunciation for offences. He thought that punishing the owner of the car for not pointing out the driver who, while driving his vehicle, exceeded speed and was caught by a speed camera, was in line with the constitution. The Court considered road safety, including all its participants, to be the overriding good. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore have a question: How does today's draft fit into the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u263	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u264	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u265	Thank you very much. And, yet, Mr Tomasz Romankowski, the Kukiz Club15, appeared. [[I've been here before.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u266	Mr. Marshal, I'm not talking about questions, I'm talking about club positions. I would just like to express my surprise at why it is only now that the High House is dealing with such a need for regulation. In criminal proceedings, this is most often the case in the case of spouses, such exclusion is obvious, while in the case of criminal proceedings, spouses are obliged to report on themselves. We have a constitutional right to ensure family sustainability, but the lack of proper regulation over the years only surprises us. Clearly, with full awareness and firmness, we support the draft law submitted by the Committee on Petitions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u267	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of members of the vote. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Mr Marcin Warchoł will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The position of the Council of Ministers is negative in this regard. The current regulation is a sufficient solution for balancing two goods: the good of material truth in the criminal trial and the second good, the principle of the right of defence. The current regulation to refuse to answer questions to a person in whom such an answer could put the person closest to him or her under the responsibility of a criminal offence or a tax offence is absolutely compatible with the principle of the right of defence. First of all, for systemic reasons. I will appeal to the Code of Civil Procedure, which undoubtedly does not follow the principle of material truth, absolutely, we are dealing with the principle of adversariality, which is paramount in terms of civil procedure. There we read that a witness may refuse to answer a question when that answer could put a witness or his loved ones under criminal responsibility. There is absolutely no question of criminal liability, which in this case is certainly not a criminal liability of strict sense. As far as the second argument is concerned, I would like to refer to the point of view aside from what I said. Conflict, the apparent conflict between the right of defence and the principle of material truth, is settled in favour of the principle of material truth. This is right, as the Constitutional Court pointed out last year, which you rightly raised here. It should be borne in mind in the context of this proposal that the principle of nemo se ipsum accusare tenetur is not an absolute principle and in a number of judgments the European Court of Human Rights provided for numerous exceptions to this principle. I'll just mention three things. About Halloran and Francis against the United Kingdom. It was precisely the situation referred to here, namely photographing the driver and refusing to answer the question of who was driving the vehicle at the time of the act. The European Court of Human Rights stated that there was no breach of the principle nemo se ipsum, since the owner refused to identify the driver at the time of the offence, was fined. In the next case - the situation in case Weh v Austria, very similar, and the case in Rieg v Austria - car owners were obliged to identify the drivers of vehicles at the time of the offence. Both did not admit that they were the drivers, neither did they refuse to answer: each of them indicated the person who was to drive the vehicle, but their testimony proved false. Both were convicted of providing false or incomplete information. The Court has not seen a breach of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 convention. Here both our tribunal and the European Court of Human Rights absolutely recognize that this balance is preserved. In this case, our solution is absolutely consistent with solutions in other legal systems, that I will mention only Austria, the UK. Therefore, the position of the Council of Ministers is negative, the position of the government is negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u269	Thank you very much. Will the applicant's representative take the floor? Please, Mr Jerzy Jachnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u270	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, first of all, I wanted to thank all the clubs for putting this project to work. On the other hand, Minister, your position is not understandable to me in any way. Well, today, in this Chamber, a motion for the waiver of immunity was made to President NIK Kwiatkowski. And what was the charge? A misdemeanor. But an offence is also a criminal offence, only a minor one, of a different kind. Take a look at the constitution, the article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. I just thought that for the first time we were all on one side, that one article of the Constitution was clear. But it turns out it's still not clear to the ministry. The argument you're making is that the driver... The same argument on the committee was made by the police. Well, Minister, this is what other legal tools are made for, and it doesn't put it in one bag to make the police comfortable. I don't know if it's about pushing money into the budget or if it's about the law being the law, Minister. Under no circumstances do I agree with your interpretation as a representative of the committee. I believe that this interpretation violates the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u271	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I have the honour to present our position on the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. The proposed law abolishes the duty of self-incrimination, i.e. the obligation to testify as a witness, when this may expose a person who is responsible for a misdemeanor or tax offence. According to the Roman rule nemo se ipsum accusare tenetur no one You can't force yourself to accuse yourself. This principle works in the c.p.k. to the extent that self-incrimination could lead to the liability of the witness or the person closest to him for a criminal offence or fiscal offence, it does not include liability for a criminal offence or tax offence. Today's project corrects the error of not listing the record of tax offences in the Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure of 10 January 2003, which gave, among other things, Article 2 183 § l.p.k. It's an up-to-date sound. According to the Act, a witness can only evade the answer to the question if it could put his or his closest person at risk of being liable for a tax offence or offence. Therefore, the possibility of a breach of the answer is eliminated when the answer exposes the witness or the person closest to him only to the liability for a misdemeanor or tax offence. Such regulation unnecessarily exposes citizens to criminal liability for giving false testimony in the event that they do not comply with the obligation to report to their loved ones. According to Art. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, everyone against whom criminal proceedings are conducted, has the right to defend at all stages of the proceedings. There is no distinction here between responsibility for crime and crime. Unfortunately, today's Code of Criminal Procedure makes such a distinction, contrary to the Constitution. It should be added that Poland is a signatory of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which states clearly that in the event of criminal proceedings, no one can be forced to testify to his or her detriment or to plead guilty. This proposal therefore brings the legal situation into line with the requirements of the Polish Constitution and international agreements adopted by our country. It civilizes the state of law in this matter and restores the defendants to their rights. A particular problem resulting from the current form of the law was the obligation to testify against the closest family members in cases of criminal offences or tax offences. Undoubtedly, the abolition of this controversial obligation is a positive aspect of the proposed amendment. It's hard to expect a citizen to testify against his wife or father. You can't put anyone in that position. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club, I request that the project be referred to the committee for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u273	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, contained in print No 815, to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 33. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Penal Code Act (Print No 878). I ask Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are no MPs, but I see young people in the audience. I'm so glad you're here. Greetings. We're gonna talk about hey. I think this is something you're familiar with your everyday life. Before I begin my speech, I'd like to play something for you. [[The Member plays the recording from the phone]] [[Get in the microphone.]] You're a badass, too. - What makes you say that? - That's who you are. And your time is running out. - But, sir, you're insulting me right now. Do you realize that? - I'm sorry. Because I'd like to offend... your boss... - But you also spoke very ugly to me. - No. - You, too. - I don't mean to insult you, I just... I'd like to hear... And in her face, tell her what she's like... on TV, how she talks. Just the death penalty.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u275	But you were supposed to justify the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u276	Wait, I'll justify it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u277	I don't hear anything. [[But that's the best justification, Mr. Marshal.]] Yes? I can't hear anything. [[Come here, you can hear me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u278	Listen to me. [[The Member plays the recording from the phone]] But your words are criminal. - Death penalty and goodbye... Tell her she's running out of time. - But you do realize that for threats like this... Good. Mr. Marshal has interrupted. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, on Monday, the gentleman who threatened to kill me called me at the Messenger's office. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a hat. According to the definition in the Polish dictionary, heyt is described as an offensive and usually aggressive online commentary, but this heyt in front of our eyes comes out of the virtual world and guests, it is dissipating in the real world, for example in the form of such phones. I could now ask you whether you are receiving such calls or recordings, but I think this is a rhetorical question, because each of us receives such texts, whether by e-mail or addressed to the parliamentary office, actually all the time, 24 hours a day. Someone might say that a politician should be hard-skinned and not hysterical. That's true, but I'm sure that despite the thick skin, we shouldn't ignore such signals at all. Why? Let us move to Łódź, for example, by 19 October 2010. Then Richard Cyba broke into the law and justice office with a gun and shot Mr. Mark Rosiak. He shot eight times, emptied the entire clip. Of course, the unsub had more ammo, but luckily he didn't manage to reload the gun. On the other hand, he managed to pull out the knife he gave Mr. Paul Kowalski a few blows. He tried to slit his throat like that. He stabbed him twice in the neck. He also wounded the hands Mr. Kowalski was hiding. According to witnesses who watched it, the unsub screamed that he hated the Law and Justice and wanted to kill Kaczyński. This is a hat, ladies and gentlemen, a terrible hat we should oppose. Two days ago was just another anniversary of the death of a PiS activist. I remember a year ago, on the fifth anniversary of the death of Rosiak, politicians and activists of Law and Justice met under a plaque commemorating the murder of their colleague. I quote what they said: "It was a crime committed out of political hatred and in a certain political climate, which is still going on today. That's what Mr. Wojciechowski said. He also said: "No one said: I am sorry and no one felt responsible for this crime. After him, Mr Piotr Gliński spoke and said: "The memory of that event is very important for the future of the Polish community. The basic message of Mark Rosiak's death should be to turn this victim into something good for Poland. That's what Mr. Gliński said. He also pointed out that political life in Poland cannot be allowed to become such a low and so primitive level. And he also emphasized that Law and Justice did not use the language of hatred. He said, "Let's stop with the hate speech." My debate with Vladimir Nykel has shown that civilized, peaceful, substantive talks can be conducted without the temperature of negative emotions. I also remember the words of Jarosław Kaczyński at the funeral, who first stated that the church was not a place for political speeches, but after a while he did not spare strong words. And he said, "Sociotechnics of hatred began to be used as a sociotechnic of power." If one can appeal for something today, it is only that this sociotechnic, this way of governing, is explicitly rejected. I also remember Mr Mariusz Błaszczak talking about this murder in 2014: This is political murder. The killer turned out to be a man aware of his goals. He was convicted, and in his explanatory statement the court wrote that he murdered a law and justice activist and wanted to murder Jarosław Kaczyński, only security prevented him from attacking. For our part, the debate will always be substantive. We will always put forward concrete solutions, concrete proposals and a specific programme. We observe those who use hatred in politics against the consequences of such actions. Marek Rosiak died in a political act of hatred. The perpetrator of this crime has been tried. He turned out to be a man of reckoning. What I just said, when I mentioned the events of Łódź, shows that this problem affects all of us and this amendment is simply necessary for all of us. Insufficient criminal protection of victims of discrimination has been highlighted by international human rights authorities in Poland, e.g. The Committee Against Torture, the Committee on Human Rights, the European Commission Against Racism and Intolerance, as well as the Committee on Children's Rights. Today, too, the President of the Human Rights Committee of the European Union is looking at Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, it would seem that, and such voices I hear, this amendment is unnecessary, that the current legal system completely protects people from aggression because of their membership of the above mentioned. groups. No, it's not. And the best example of this is the worrying increase in registered crimes caused by hatred, which was also presented by the Police Headquarters. And this is not, ladies and gentlemen, a sign that the law is working, but a clear proof that the law is not working, because the scale of this pathological phenomenon is increasing. The research carried out by NGOs also shows that the number of hate crime investigations is increasing from year to year. In 2013, such crimes were 835, in 2014 - 1365, and in 2015 - 1548. Growth is evident. In this amendment, we refer to discrimination against five minorities. And now I will give examples of violence in those areas that we propose to add to the amendment. Gender discrimination. This video I was just presenting to you is exactly what I'm talking about. I'll also make it available if it wasn't audible in a moment's time on my Facebook page. Available statistics and studies on gender violence in Poland mainly take into account the phenomenon of family violence. These statistics are available on the website of the Ministry of Justice and include figures on offences committed against family members, sexual offences and case law in cases of family violence. A special group of women exposed to this multifaceted discrimination are disabled women and girls. In the life of women with disabilities, violence is not only a common phenomenon, but it is often the cause of the disability of these women. Nearly 80% of women with disabilities are victims of psychological and physical violence. In addition, women with disabilities are more vulnerable to sexual violence than other women. The last public speeches of right-wing journalists should also be mentioned here, such as the text by Mr Ziemkiewicz about the publicist Annie Dryjanska, about the fact that she is deformed and that it is a pity that the black protest does not look like a rally of disembodied photomodels, or e.g. Mr. Gmyz's text directed directly to me that wearing marks over the eye is a great reason for joking about violence in the family because the soup was too salty or Mr. Pospieszalski's jokes that Dorota Wellman resembles a pig flock, or Mr. Terlikowski's, that the participants of the black protest should wear Nazi uniforms, or that the messengers are... are sluts, are sluts, pigs, that they will do what they want with us, and that we have no right to live. These are the things we get every day. Another discrimination that we take into account in our amendment is discrimination based on gender identity or sexual orientation. An example of the extremely negative psychological consequences of homophobic persecution is the case of the death of Dominik Szymański from Bieżu. I think you all know this case, which covered the whole of Poland in 2015, 14-year-old Dominik, a junior high school student, a boy of a similar age to my son, committed suicide. In a suicide note to his mother, he wrote, "I'm nothing." According to his mother, Dominik was harassed, persecuted and tormented, and the pretext for violence was, ladies and gentlemen, style of dress and care for his hair. Both teachers and teachers knew about these incidents. Dominic took his own life because he was tormented by his peers. He looked for help, complained, said he was tortured and challenged, and no one helped him. Dominic couldn't stand it and interrupted his young life, but his whole life was ahead of him. I would therefore like the changes to which I am convincing you to do so to give rise to reflection in all those who practice such disdainful behaviours. Back to statistics, over the past 5 years, nearly 1/3 of the participants in the study, which carries out the Homophobia campaign, have experienced physical or mental violence. In the study e.g. in 2011, more than half of the respondents, 54% , experienced more than once violent incidents against the background of sexual orientation. With verbal violence described in the survey as verbal harassment, insulting, insulting, humiliation met 92% the total of the audited group, one in four people met with physical violence defined in the survey as e.g. hitting, jerking, punching or digging, and almost 20% of respondents pointed out that violence described in the survey as threats, blackmailing the use of physical violence. Third discrimination on grounds of disability. Dear country, prejudice against persons with disabilities is a belief that people who are not physically or mentally fully fit do not deserve the same treatment as those who are fully fit. People with disabilities experience, face significant social and physical barriers to full participation in society. Prejudiced crimes against this group are often characterized by the fact that the perpetrators are known to them. Compared to crimes related to prejudice against the background e.g. There are few national or ethnic offences to the detriment of people with disabilities. Why is that? Because the subject of violence against people with disabilities is not yet studied or monitored in a comprehensive manner in Poland. Of course, there are surveys available in Poland, including the results of research carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and they indicate that people with various disabilities are extremely often victims of violence. The high degree of victimisation of people with disabilities is also shown by the research of the Polish Association for Mental Disabilities and the examination of the Ombudsman. There are also pilot studies, e.g. the 2014 survey, which was carried out in the Mazowieckie Voivodship. We learn from them about various forms of violence, we learn from them that as many as 92% the persons concerned are persecuted and discriminated against. These studies contain scary numbers. Of all those who have experienced violence, the most numerous group, because almost 70% , are victims of mental violence - screams, names, threats, e.g. Like, I'm gonna hand you over to the orphanage or blackmail. Being victims of physical violence declared 60% people who were beaten, pushed, kicked, tied their hands, experienced strangulation. Over half, 52% , experienced the so-called. violations of personal liberty, e.g. lock up in a room against their will and keep for up to a dozen days. 37% admitted that he was experiencing economic violence, e.g. their money or their items shall be taken or destroyed. The scale of sexual crimes is also high in this group. Sexual violence suffered 28% involved in the study. It was, for example. forced to watch pornographic material, but also to touch intimate places until rape. The study also shows that violence is not a one-off event, but in many cases it is simply a daily event. For example, one of the students had such violence from fellow workers: If I couldn't do something, I got hit in the head every time. Imagine that if you don't do something, your superior will blow your brains out every time. According to these studies, acts of physical and sexual violence are aggravated by simultaneous psychological and economic violence. Victims who want to complain, to tell someone, are often threatened and blackmailed. At the same time, due to the economic dependence on the loved ones, as well as the limited opportunity to participate in social life, they are not really freed from this violence and from their oppressor. Age discrimination. Dear country, violence against the elderly can be defined as a single or repeated action or lack of appropriate action in any relationship in which trust is expected and which causes harm or suffering to the elderly. It may also take various forms towards this elderly person: it may be physical, mental, sexual, financial violence, and may also take the form of intentional or unintentional negligence of the elderly person. Preventing violence against older people is a very important issue in our society, which is an ageing society. Although this phenomenon has only begun to be seen as a global problem in recent years, it already is. In April 2002, in Madrid, all UN Member States adopted an international action plan which stresses the importance of preventing violence against older people and points out that protecting older people from violence is one of universal human rights. Statistics and studies available in Poland relating to violence due to age mainly take into account the phenomenon of violence in the family. Study on this subject publish annually the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. In this context, the latest research carried out on behalf of the Ministry by the Institute of Psychology of the Polish Academy of Sciences is particularly important. The Ombudsman also conducted studies on violence against older women and women with disabilities. According to these studies, both the RPO and the PAS, a large number of respondents observed cases of family violence against the elderly. In addition to their own family in the last few years, such cases have been observed on average 43% persons. Among the forms of physical violence, older people were most often isolated - 42% , among the forms of economic violence, i.e. taking and using older people's money - 48% and among the forms of mental violence, i.e. pointing out physical disability - 47%. The use of sexual violence against the elderly affected 17% respondents, and the use of at least one form of violence - physical or economic - reported 59% to older people outside their own family respondents, and in their own family - 30%. The data is terrifying. Ladies and gentlemen! This is what we are dealing with in Poland. Not only with increasing hatred caused by prejudice, not only with an increasing number of such crimes, but also with a lack of law in this area. The law should not only punish, but should also act preventively, that is, discourage crime. Little is the current law on the fight against prejudiced crimes protects the perpetrator to a greater extent than the victim, which is absurd. Hardly at all are hate crimes being prosecuted, and most hate attacks are treated as an offence and are most often dismissed. Unfortunately, the law and security services only begin to work at the time of murder, heavy battery, or rape, but then it is too late. Unfortunately, this is bad for our legislation and for the services of the public. Unfortunately, most hate crimes are not prosecuted by the public, but by civil lawsuit, where the victim has the entire burden of gathering evidence and proving guilty. It's like, ladies and gentlemen, stealing was only wanted when we found the thief and the stolen items and brought the police and the DA's office by the hand. It's unbelievable how absurd our laws are. In a comprehensive justification for this amendment, I have presented a number of situations where there is increasing violence, both physical and mental, which is based on hatred and prejudice. It is worth noting that the victims of this violence are not only gay people, foreigners, not just wheelchair users and other disabled people. It is worth noting that they are very often older people, people with different views, different religions. In fact, it's touching and hitting each and every one of us because we all know people like that. These are members of our families, these are our neighbors, these are the people we pass on the street, these are the people who sit in these benches. It's just us. It is a project submitted by the Modern in cooperation with 70 NGOs in Poland, but we do not want this project to have any party label in an important and crucial matter such as safety and respect for human dignity. This is a project that should unite us all because we are acting here by the will of citizens and ensuring their safety is simply our duty. This is not a project aimed at any political party, because all the political options over the past 27 years have committed the sin of omission and the sin of ignorance. Right now it is high time to finally make things right, because we have to live in a time when there is more and more hatred around us, and we, as responsible politicians, need to prevent causes and not just cure the effects, especially since in the case of such crimes the consequences are simply incurable. If one of you thinks it's censorship, that it's an attempt on freedom of speech, it's worth reminding the old rule: your freedom ends inches in front of my nose. Freedom being allowed to do anything is the worst kind of slavery. Once again, I would like to stress that this is not a right-wing project, nor a left-wing project, nor a green one, nor a brown one. This is a human project, referring to the universally recognized and best values of humanitarianism and Christianity. That is why I ask Members of Parliament to refer this project to committee, because either we all gain something, or we all just lose something. Ladies and gentlemen, every hatred leads to dehumanization... [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u279	Madam, I would like to apologize to you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u280	I'm almost done. I've got the last page.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u281	But no, no, on a completely different matter, Madam, I would like to apologize for a moment. I ask the people gathered at the gallery that with their comments, I do not know, I see that there is a Marshal's Guard there, do not interfere with the conduct of the proceedings. I would like to ask you, sir, to comment on a completely different political event, so that you may be kind enough to move to a completely different place. You're welcome, my fellow Member, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u282	Last page, basically. Hate, ladies and gentlemen, is a contradiction of Christian values. This proposal, which I am presenting here today, is for the protection of all those who are victims of a hater who have been victimized by hateful violence on a daily basis. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I have to explain that words can hurt. But words can also kill. I would like the proposed amendments to the law to make sure that everyone who feeds on a hat, three times or several times think about it, before they say or do anything. It is better, ladies and gentlemen, to prevent than to condemn. Let this amendment I propose be a whip for all who made sense of their existence from the hat. Minister of Interior Mariusz Błaszczak said that hate crimes are very rare. Police data is supposed to be 0.1%. all reported crimes, and their detection rate is over 46%. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, even if the changes I propose here today were only to affect one person per year, it is worth introducing them, because maybe in extreme cases we can just save someone's life. Wojciech Tochman, a reporter, wrote a book "Today we will draw death," which tells about Rwanda's genocide and shows the real effects of ubiquitous hatred. You might ask yourself today why we should cry for people murdered in the faraway Rwanda 16 years ago. The answer is this: the point is to realize that silence is a permission, and consent simply leads to disaster. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u283	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Stanisław Pieta, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir. [[That you chose a man...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on the draft in print No. 878. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, this project is unnecessary, ideological... [[Oh, Jesus.]] ...and to some extent threatens freedom of expression, constitutionally protected values. Given the value of this project, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I apply to reject the project at first reading. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Oh, Jesus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u285	Thank you, sir. [[The substantive participation of the Member was impressive.]] [[Accurate to the content of the project.]] I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Osos.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u286	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The proposed law amending the Penal Code concerns the extension of the three offences to which the Penal Code applies in the specific section of the Penal Code, i.e. Article 2 119, 256 and 257 of the Penal Code concerning more effective protection against crimes motivated by gender, gender identity, age, disability and sexual orientation. High Izbo! It is high time to clarify these issues clearly, because we see that the state may not be so powerless, but rather does not respond to the emerging acts of aggression, does not see that the hat is actually very often the beginning of something very bad. And I would even say more, to some social groups, such as the LGBT community, there is such a feeling that there is a kind of silent acceptance of the spread of this hatred by some organizations and there is no consequence against them. It can be pointed out, as this will also be the case, that the current rules in the Criminal Code provide for the legal protection of persons for whom certain behaviours are directed towards their sex, gender identity, age, disability, sexual orientation. Such laws are, for example, those concerning the crime of slander, insult, or criminal threats. However, this protection seems incomplete and ineffective, because, as I mentioned earlier, law enforcement authorities often underestimate these cases, and the need for a victim often as a prosecutor, because most of them are criminal offences prosecuted by a private prosecution, resulting in discouragement of those persons from pursuing their rights. Therefore, it is necessary to give law enforcement authorities the tools necessary to carry out their duties. Protecting all citizens, regardless of their views, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation or others, is one of the fundamental principles of a democratic rule of law. The State implements this protection through an instrument, which is undoubtedly a criminal policy, which seeks to brand and thus eliminate phenomena which negatively affect the functioning of the individual in society. We should not and must not ignore the fact that there is a group of people with different gender identities, sexual orientation as well as those affected by disability in society, and they also deserve full and effective protection from the state. This is due both to the Constitution and to the European Convention on Human Rights. Therefore, since these phenomena are increasing and we point to numerous examples which show that the proper protection of these people is not ensured, it is undoubtedly our role for Parliament to make such changes to existing legislation, which will guarantee legal protection in a realistic and full way in this regard, especially as these changes have been recommended by the UN Human Rights Committee and the OSCE to Poland for years. The comments submitted, even if the Attorney General who contributed to this project, could provide an important basis for the discussion, which should ultimately lead to the introduction of a legal regulation that comprehensively guarantees the protection of the individuals concerned. Therefore, the Civic Platform is in favour of directing the project to further parliamentary work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u287	Thank you. And Mr Sławomir Nitras, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u288	Thank you, Marshal. It is quite symbolic that, on behalf of the PiS club, a person who really has little to say, but who has gone into the history of Polish parliamentarianism as a person who insulted black, foreign... [[Black people?]] Yes, the end of the white man's civilization. [[My friend didn't get it.]] ...homosexuals who compared homosexuals to people having sex with animals. It's symbolic, Mr. Marshal, that your formation... I don't know what you're laughing at. I remember your words about communists and thieves, about people who protested on the streets. It is the characteristic attitude of Law and Justice and it is you who are responsible for this atmosphere. 'Cause that's all that's going on, the atmosphere that's growing, unfortunately... Madame, I have one sentence of comment. It's not like there was nothing before Modern, because we fight for it consistently. Last year we adopted a convention on family violence. It all started before you guys. But the truth is, the atmosphere is changing to a lot worse, because we didn't have a prime minister just a year ago, who was responding positively to the calls of the ONRs. We did not have Minister Błaszczak, who compared ONR to the heirs of the cursed soldiers, and the beaten Mr Szumłda to the heir [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a bike. We did not deal with the Attorney General, who allowed prosecutors not to hear the words that all Poland heard about...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u289	Thank you very much, sir, because time has passed. Would you please take the floor, ma'am?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u290	Mr. Marshal, there's always not enough time in the Seym to talk about these problems. I don't think you should underestimate that either. [[Applause]] [[Coalition PO with Modern.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u291	Thank you kindly. I ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Chrobak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a number of really serious criminal problems in our country. We have, above all, the problem of financial and treasure crime. Billions of VAT fraud are coming out of the budget every year. It's not spectacular crime, because there's no bloodshed, but it's the crime that's most dangerous to the state and citizens right now, because it's about the wallet of each of us. We have a huge problem affecting the level of criminal law related to gangster reprivatization processes. Finally, we have the problem of unlawful bailiff executions, which are de facto robes of executions and usurys. Citizens, who have been taking moments for many years, have lost and continue to lose their assets to organized crime groups. This applies to ordinary Kowalski as well as wealthy entrepreneurs. These are the real problems of Poles in the field of criminal law and criminal policy. In the meantime, what does Modern do? What is the biggest problem of modern criminal law? Well, Mr Marshal, you and your fellow Members are the problems of the LGBT community, a narrow group of citizens who want to stand out because of sexual orientation, including criminal law. [[A heterosexual woman can be beaten, too.]] I didn't bother you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u293	Excuse me, Member. Mr Sławomir, I ask you very much not to disturb me. You have just called for enough time for Members to make their points. Right now, you're preventing your messenger from speaking. You're welcome, sir, because I don't want to reach for the regulations so I don't have to call you into order. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u294	The Kukiz15 movement tells such divisions: no. Criminal and law-abiding protection of goods should be equal for every human being, regardless of sex. Giving a certain group a privileged position on the grounds of LGBT membership is nothing but discrimination against citizens who are a heterosexual majority. The Penal Code provides sufficient protection for a crime of insult or defamation. This protection should be equal to everyone, as it is now. Let the modern focus on the real problems of Poles, on real criminal problems, and not on hate speech, which is not known at all in the national legal order. You often stress the important role of justice, and the National Judicial Council has rejected this proposal. That's the club. Modern is a leading party when it comes to hate speech. You're entering Palikot's shoes. Ladies and gentlemen, take care of the real problems of Poles. The Kukiz Club15 requests that the project be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u295	Thank you, Member. [[A heterosexual woman can also be a subject of aggression.]] And I ask for the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u296	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Any revision of the Penal Code requires answers to two questions: are the rules needed and are the current rules unable to achieve the objective pursued by the amendment? In the case of the proposed draft, the answer is definitely yes. The speech of hatred, honourable Member, does not serve freedom of speech. The speech of hatred is a denial of freedom of speech. He's destroying her. [[Applause]] The speech of hatred is not a polemic, it is not an expression of opinion. A speech of hatred will not convince anyone of any other views. It's not good for anything. The speech of hatred brings man in all his complexity, wealth to one thing, to subdue him, to destroy him, to offend him, to cause him pain. That's all the tormentor wants to achieve. As with other situations, when the perpetrator wants to hurt the victim, the state cannot stand by. And yes, the state gives the victim the opportunity to defend himself. The victim can file a civil suit and can file a private indictment. If the perpetrator goes to insult on grounds of religion or origin, the victim can count on the state to stand up for it. On the other hand, religion and origin are not everything. Because it's also about whether we're a woman or a man or how old we are or if we're fully capable, it's about our personal affairs. The unsubs hit these things because they know it's gonna hurt a lot. And here you tell these victims, "I'm not gonna do anything." Bring him in, victim, your executioner, put him in front of us, and maybe we can help. Find the unsub, deliver him, and maybe we can take care of the case. Ladies and gentlemen, I particularly address this to Members of the Law and Justice, because I think you know a lot about hate speech. You know about her because you're often just her victims. In Internet forums anonymous people, Internet users write about stupid women, about cripples. About Messengers and Messengers of Modernity, my colleagues and colleagues, they write about me as scumbags and scumbags. And believe me, these are not the worst examples. But I will not quote others for the purpose of the parliamentary debate. And those words serve nothing but to hurt to humiliate to cause pain. It's not politics, and it's not open, not even a violent political fight. This is not a realization of freedom of speech. This is the destruction of freedom of speech. And this speech of hatred, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't know the boundaries, nor the cordons. And it's probably every Member's experience. We can say to ourselves that this is our occupational risk, we have taken up some work, but we are also privileged because we have families that support us, we have friends who tell us: you can handle this case, we can interact with the media. There are a lot of lawyers in Warsaw, close to them and very close to the courts. We may not care. But just because we can't get in here doesn't mean that we can tell other citizens the same thing. It doesn't relieve us of our obligation to empathize with those who can't handle themselves. Because the issue of speech and hate crimes concerns thousands of people in Poland. People who are humiliated and abused by age, sex, disability and sexual orientation. People who can't handle it, who don't have lawyers. Sometimes they can't count on their loved ones, and often their loved ones are their executioners. People like that. An infirm father who hears from his adult children that he's an old freeloader and should die, or a woman who hears from her employer that he's a dumb woman, or a guy from the province who has to prove his masculinity every day so he doesn't just turn out to be a faggot. None of them will file a civil trial, file a private indictment, collect the evidence required. They are, ladies and gentlemen, left to themselves. And it is our duty, the duty of the state, to help these people. The state must repeat every step of the way: this cannot be done, this must not be done. And that's not the case between the victim and the stalker. That's the case. All of us. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question of how we vote is not just a question of change in criminal law, it is a question of more than that, of whether the hate speech against us, Members, has hardened our hearts so hard that we refuse the rights of these vulnerable victims, other people to defend, that we will not understand how they feel, or whether we believe that these people should be defended by the state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with all their power, or leave them to themselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u297	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Pasyk. He made his statement in writing. So, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle in the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the Penal Code Act. In this draft law, applicants propose to add new criteria to the existing legislation extending the catalogue of violence offences or threats of unlawful, public provocation to hatred and public abuse of acts committed because of such individual characteristics of the victim as sex, gender identity, age, disability and sexual orientation. It is worth noting that the legal rules which applicants wish to amend do not, according to the original intentions of the legislators, have to Penallise all discriminatory behaviours, but only those that threaten certain social interests. To include them in a closed catalogue, including criteria such as nationality, ethnicity, race, religion or non-denominationality, is to be an expression. The authors of the project propose that, after the change of regulation, the use of violence or threat to another person due to the circumstances of the offences added by the amendment should be considered as a crime against humanity, while the spread of hatred or public insult for the same reason - a crime against public order. In the explanatory memorandum of this proposal, applicants seek to prove that the current regulations do not provide sufficient safeguards for victims of offences motivated by discrimination on the basis of their individual characteristics as referred to in the novel. Although there is no precise reference in the Criminal Code to the circumstances of the offences mentioned in the draft, it contains a number of more general provisions which constitute discrimination on grounds of sex, gender identity, age, disability and sexual orientation for victims. These are, among other things, provisions that constitute criminal liability for the violation of bodily integrity, insulting, defamation or directing criminal threats, regardless of the motivation of the perpetrator. In addition, project promoters take their current law enforcement procedure as unfavourable to the victims of the offences in question. The regulations proposed by them will therefore affect the change of this mode from a private complaint to crimes prosecuted by the public. According to the authors of the project, the additional effort and workload of victims of discrimination related to the conduct of civil proceedings is additionally detrimental to them, while, according to the reasons given by the prosecutor general, this change will also affect the size of the victim's control process. The direct result will be the independence of criminal prosecution of criminal offences against the victim's will. In view of its own reflections, as well as a number of negative opinions issued regarding the project and the same projects from previous years, the Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the amendment of the project be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u299	Thank you, Member. I would like to inform you that eight ladies and gentlemen have joined the questions. And if there aren't any more calls, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek. Question time - 1 minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member. There is no Member. Then I would ask you to ask Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u300	How long, Marshal? Taking advantage of this opportunity, I will say that I remember this statement, I remember what the sleep said. Mr Górski. He repeated those words after you. I know who was talking about the end of a white man's civilization in America. And you're ashamed of what you said. Ladies and gentlemen, this discussion takes place in a particular atmosphere, and this atmosphere is a climate that favours such behaviour. I am particularly surprised by Mrs.Zwierzan, because I remember how this kind of aggression was used against opposition in Poland, when crazies were made out of oppositionists, when homosexuals were made out of them, when these kinds of events were revealed and they were compromised. It was exactly the violence. But this atmosphere is not only in Poland. Today we are in a situation where thanks to you, thanks to the PiS, Poland is associated with aggressive football fans in Madrid who have terrorized Madrid and in 2 weeks can terrorize Dortmund. And today the president of the club in Dortmund says: No, we do not want Polish fans. Because we're associated with violent people, [[♪ The bell ♪]] people who don't respect others. That's where you have to put the dam. This is where you have to put the dam, because Poland is not like that. Poles are a peaceful nation that respects another man.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u301	Thank you very much. Here, as corrected, Mr Pieta. You're welcome, sir. [[In corrigendum mode? What's the address?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, from my lips, as long as I am involved in politics, there has never been a racist statement. And for that, I would like to invite you to the ethics committee. Thank you very much. [[That's not a correction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u303	Thank you, sir. And I ask you to take the floor, to ask Mr Paul Kobylinski a question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I, to be honest, wasn't even an enthusiast at first, but my club friend convinced me by asking me one very important question. Allow me to ask them here in this courtroom. What's the difference between killing gay people and killing Jews? Tell me, ma'am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u305	Thank you. And I ask Mr Marcin Święcicki for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our Penal Code provides for criminality for violence and unlawful threats, for inciting hatred, for public insulting because of national, ethnic, racial, political, religious or non-religious affiliations, while it does not provide for criminality for threats of unlawful and violence, for inciting hatred, for public insulting because of sexual orientation, disability, gender identity, age, gender. I ask PiS: Why do you want to leave freedom and freedom of threats of lawlessness, violence, hate speech and public insulting people because they are otherwise sexually oriented, that they are disabled, that they have advanced age, that they have a different sexual identity? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What do you need it for, to oppose it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u307	Thank you. And I ask you to ask Mr Adam Szłapka a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Information: Uganda will punish you with life sentence for homosexual relations. Comment: Like wild people, and they know that the laws of nature should not be offended. As long as the convicts don't keep them for multiple purposes. Korfanty would have you shot - talk about Silesians demanding recognition of the rights of ethnic minorities. Who said that, Mr Pięta? These are quotes from you. [[Applause]] You have the audacity to say today that this is an ideological project, and a few hours ago you passed a resolution that doesn't call a family where there is a single parent who raises children or a single parent who raises children... takes away the right to say family. I mean, Mr Kaczyński doesn't have a family? I mean, Mr Pavłowicz doesn't have a family? You're the idealist at every step of the way. And this is a fundamental matter, this is about freedom of speech, so that under normal conditions we can discuss, not be offended or killed by words. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I listen to Barbara Chrobak and I am amazed. She's talking about fundamental things about...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u309	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u310	...VAT...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u311	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u312	...and there's no shame in bringing Mr Winnicki into Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u313	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Andrzej Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u314	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Listening to the reasons for the project, I saw an emotional commitment. If someone does not see through this commitment of the problem that we are talking about, then he is not seeing, because we all know that mental terror is equally and perhaps even more severe than physical terror. If there are people in our country who are subjected to this terror, they can't do it alone. They're counting on the government. And I am very surprised that in this case a very strong government pretends that this problem in our country does not exist. That's not a brave position. I'd call it by name, but I don't want to use big words. I hope so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that these speeches will be a reflection for the government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u315	Thank you. Before I ask the Member to ask a question... Two Members came forward as corrected: Mr Sławomir Nitras and Mr Stanisław Pieta. I have a favor to ask of one and the other gentlemen. They have already left the gallery of people watching our deliberations today, it was largely young people, not to say children. We are talking about hate speech, bad emotions, and I have the impression that from this Seymary speaker much more of these evil emotions, words full of hate fall than in this space you are asking for. Please, one minute to correct, Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u316	Mr. Marshal! I'm joining your appeal. I hope you'll enjoy it at the rallies, too, and you'll hold back your emotions in the future. I just wanted to show you... I didn't use any aggressive word against anyone. But during this debate from a man named Radosław Olszak after his speech I get information: And Nitras and Święcicki must be shaved and sent to Ukraine. Available on my fanpage. You can see that. That's what this debate is about. That's what this debate is about. Do we want to... Are all those people who say they don't see a threat... It's not that I'm afraid that someone will shave my head because I'm a strong man, no less powerful than testosterone-filled PiS Members, I can handle it. But not everyone is so strong. Some people are scared. [[Mr President, this text is not from us.]] Some people are scared. Poles are afraid of such aggressive behaviour. [[Game in the O.R.]] Don't bother me, don't be aggressive. This is a discussion about women who lead children by the hand, seeing bald, shaved to the bald big [[♪ The bell ♪]] The guys...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u317	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u318	They cross the street because they're scared. This is a discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u319	Thank you, sir. I'm sorry... [[Voice from the hall: This is a speech of hatred just.]] I'm sorry... [[Game in the O.R.]] Gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Yeah, well, I don't count as hairy either, but not by my own fault or my own will. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] On the other hand, High Izbo and Mr... [[I remember your marshal while he still had his hair.]] Mr President, I am sorry to say that you have abused the rules of procedure because this was not a correction. I hope that Mr Pieta will be corrected in accordance with the rules of procedure, i.e. he will make a correction in accordance with the rules of procedure, not a statement. You're welcome, sir. One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am convinced that my statement has been misinterpreted... [[The gay one?]] ...maybe we're dealing with some kind of misunderstanding. None of these examples cited by the Modern Member has even touched racism. As I said before, in all my political activity I never referred to any racist ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u321	Thank you. Dear High Izbo! All of us, all of us full of testosterone, strong men who are not afraid of anyone or anything that is indistinguishable from the Seym Hall, I would just like to draw attention - and, by the way, very cordially welcome the young people who are watching us - and ask that this debate be deprived of this testosterone and the impression that we have just had on the Seym Speaker. I beg you, Madame, and I apologise for the time you have had to wait for your question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Without this testosterone, I wasn't supposed to ask a question... [[We don't know.]] ...but I'm a little embarrassed about the level of this debate, because on the one hand, the Declaration of Law and Justice is basically just a motion to reject the project, the Member of the Kukiz Club15 says that there are more important things that we should be dealing with. And what is more important than protecting our citizens? Ladies and gentlemen, we said: Aggression gives birth to aggression, hatred gives birth to hatred, and this brings about further consequences, leading to many human tragedies. That's why my question, so rhetorical: How are we not supposed to react to it, how are we not supposed to do it? I hope that the majority of the Parliament will still change their minds, and we will actually be able to continue to work on this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u323	Thank you, Member. The last question is asked by Monika Rosa. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With all due respect to Mrs Chrobak and Mr Five, unfortunately these speeches were simply disgusting and contemptible. I hope that you will, however, gain some empathy for people who are victims of hate speech and violence because of certain specific features, and that this empathy will make you, despite these senseless smiles now... [[Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: you are exaggerating, Mrs Szynkowski.]] ...which are on the part of the Law and Justice, they will simply direct this draft to read in committee so that we can talk at least about what protection the designated groups require, because they are discriminated against, and that is the fact, and with the facts, you know, you don't discuss. Ladies and gentlemen, at least let's talk about it. Don't throw it away at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u325	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Marcin Warchoł. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Will I also be able to?]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u326	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Projectors propose to amend three provisions by introducing new features into the catalogue of discriminatory conditions in the form of gender criteria, gender identity, age, disability and sexual orientation. With regard to these types of criminal offences, they are an expression of increased criminal protection against acts of discrimination and there are already certain marks here, such as nationality, ethnicity, racial, religious or unrepentant. At the same time, these behaviors threaten certain general interests, such as crimes against peace, against humanity, war crimes, and against public order. The essence of these crimes is that they do not exonerate all discriminatory behaviours, but only those which at the same time threaten certain social interests. And that's exactly what they're saying. They're in a closed directory. There is no calculation here, in particular, or especially because the legislator often uses such wordings, i.e. it is a closed catalogue. Thus, the legislator, when designing these types of prohibited acts, predicted that they constituted a closed catalogue, and criminalized only those behaviours which at the same time interfere with social goods, such as public order. If so, look at the solutions of the European Union. We have here a framework decision of the European Union, which is precisely those specific behaviours, and not any other one provides for them to be protected. Namely, the Framework Decision of the Council of the European Union of 28 November 2008 on combating certain forms and manifestations of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law requires Member States to protect individuals and groups distinguished by colour, race, religion, origin, national or ethnic origin. There is no reference in this Framework Decision of the Council of the European Union to the conditions that designers would like to include. Therefore, the law established by the Framework Decision of the Council of the European Union in this regard is silent. Although our National Criminal Code does not contain specific types of crime, which would include criteria and which designers would like to include in these types of criminal offences. However, this does not mean that they remain in the sphere, I would say, irrelevant from the point of view of criminal law. Moreover, there are already such discriminatory behaviours as the applicants want, punishable by a number of other types of criminal offences, other offences. I will mention only acts that violate honor and good name, which constitute an offence in the article. 212 § 1 of the Penal Code and 216 § 1 of the Penal Code, acts in breach of physical immunity - crime from Article. 217 of the Penal Code, the management of criminal threats - the offence of Article. 190 § 1 of the Penal Code, as well as violence - the crime of art. 191 § 1 of the Criminal Code. These provisions include a criminal ban on the use of violence, unlawful threats, violations of physical immunity, abuse of every person at any time, anywhere and in any situation, regardless of the motivation of the perpetrator, and therefore on grounds of sex, on grounds of sexual identity, on grounds of age, disability or sexual orientation. We already have it all. Then there is no specific axiological justification for the introduction of more stringent criminal liability of the perpetrator, who is allowed to commit criminal offences motivated by designed discriminatory grounds. According to Art. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Constitution cannot be discriminated against for any reason in political, social or economic life and therefore does not create enumerative criteria. Within the scope of this prohibition, it introduces a general formula for prohibiting discrimination for any reason. The proposed regulation can therefore be seen as leading to discrimination against certain social groups, which also face exclusion, and the designers did not mention that I would only mention illness, addiction, homelessness or lack of work. That's another argument. Finally, if the motive for these offences is the fact that the victims are belonging to a minority group, as indicated by the justification of the project, the motivation of the perpetrator is already in the current legal state to take into account in the course of criminal proceedings. If such a perpetrator commits certain prohibited acts, based on the motives of sex, gender identity, age, disability or sexual orientation, then the motive of action, and this is the motive of action, first of all, affects the dimension of punishment - Article. 53 § 2nd Penal Code. The court can, of course, tighten the sentence here. Secondly, it affects the assessment of the degree of social harm - Article. 115 § 2nd Penal Code. Thirdly, it is an aggravating circumstance which should be taken into account when determining the level of the penalty. Moreover, as regards the motivations that deserve special condemnation, it is one of the features of existing legislation, for example. of the type of qualified offence - 148 § Point 2 (3) in the event of a homicide. If someone committed a homicide in a qualified manner, it might be in accordance with this provision, the legislator predicted such a solution. Finally, an additional criminal measure can be imposed in the form of a deprivation of public rights. National regulations allow, in line with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights set out in the explanatory memorandum, to take into account the legal standards of prejudice and intolerance of the motivation and mode of action of the perpetrators of crime. The courts are fully able to use the current criminal instruments. I will not mention a whole range of other solutions which remain outside the scope of substantive criminal law, including prosecution procedures, other measures such as civil law, where there is also a fight against discrimination - Article. 23 and 24 K.c., Labour Law - Art. 18 Labour Code, which refers to a very wide range of discrimination. Therefore, the government's position is negative against the above proposal and I have pointed out the arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u327	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I still feel that both the Members of Law and Justice and the Member who represents the Kukiz Club15, which is speaking on behalf of the club, have not read this law at all. You're talking about some completely different project I haven't prepared. However, I would ask you to revisit this project because you refer in your justifications to things that are not in this project. I don't understand your argument. Mr. Friday said the project was unnecessary, ideological. Is it unnecessary to protect against hatred against another man, as is the case with your colleague, who died a few years ago in Łódź? Is that unnecessary? Is that ideological? You said this project threatens freedom of speech. You know, sir, freedom of speech can be gained. Civil society can lead to freedom of expression in a country. This project is about human dignity. Freedom of speech does not allow human dignity to be destroyed. You should understand that. I was surprised to hear you say that. I'd love to see you. We can sit down and read what is written in this project, because I have the impression that you have assumed in advance that the project concerns LGBT environments, and you have not read what this project represents. The points I am talking about concern five groups, also those with disabilities, I repeat: disabled people, elderly people, age discrimination, gender discrimination, this applies to both men and women. This project we're presenting here, it affects all of us. This is not an ideological project. There is no ideology there, I do not know in which paragraph of this project you see ideology. It's like you're reading through some other glasses, really. That's why my proposal from this speaker is to sit at the table together and just talk about it. This project affects all of us. I was astonished to hear Mrs. Chrobak speak. Exactly the same charge. Mrs. Chrobak talks about fundamentals. I understand the finances, the economy, but it's not going to happen until there's respect for human dignity. It's not gonna happen, we can't talk about it when people are killed on the streets. We're talking about human dignity in this project. I encourage you to really read this project. This is not a project that concerns LGBT environments. This is a project that talks about discrimination against persons based on disability, age, gender, sexual orientation and gender identity. That's five reasons. This is totally different. The fact that you are trying to push this project into the corner of homosexuality is evidence of your complete failure to prepare for this debate. That's what's scary. I invite you to debate, too. You don't have to nod. The things I'm talking about are important. [[Don't discriminate, Member. I can nod my head.]] I don't discriminate against you. I don't think you know what discrimination is. [[What are you doing?]] Okay, I'm not gonna argue with you. I have a voice now. [[Then don't say anything.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Here I would like to refer to what you just said to the undersecretary. Undersecretary, you have spoken of responsibilities in the European Union. Insufficient criminal protection for victims of discrimination has repeatedly been highlighted by international human rights authorities. The Committee Against Tortures - i.e. point 25 of the final recommendations concerning the combined V and VI interim report of the Republic of Poland on the implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, November 2013. The Committee of Human Rights recommended, in turn, the revision of the Criminal Code - exactly what this amendment concerns - by introducing into it a definition of hate speech and hate crime on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity and by recognising these acts as criminal offences. This is point 8 of the final comments of the Committee on Human Rights to the 6th interim report of the Republic of Poland on the implementation of the provisions of the International Pact on Political and Civil Rights, 26 October 2010. Thirdly, to the need to extend the scope of these Articles, Article. 118, Art. 119, Art. 255, Art. 256, Art. The European Commission against Racism and Intolerance on 20 March 2015 drew Poland's attention on the grounds of sexual orientation. So these are things Poland doesn't do either. Last week there was also a presentation to the United Nations of these very things. We're waiting for recommendations. They're probably gonna happen again. Mr Kobyliński asked me a question about how the saying "kill gay" differs from saying "kill a Jew." It's just as cruel, but in the case of the first one, the difference is that when you say that, unfortunately, the person can't do anything about it. That's what these changes are for: who publicly insults a group of people or a particular person - in this case gay, in answer to a question - violates the physical integrity of another person, should be punishable by imprisonment. These are the things that are in force in the European Union. [[Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: From what I remember, we are also in the European Union.]] If you really read the justification of this project, on one of these pages - the justification is long, it has about 30 pages - on one of these pages there is a table showing what a white hole Poland is in the European Union when it comes to these matters. I'll say one more thing. My parents taught me respect for another man. Whether someone has such a colour of skin or one, whether I am dealing with a heterosexual or homosexual person, whether I am dealing with a person of Jewish or any other kind, regardless of whether I am dealing with an older person or in some way disabled - they taught me respect and tolerance to each such person, because, dear Members, we are all the same and such persons are among us. They're also among you. Really consider whether it is worth talking about this project again. I told this speaker that this project is not supposed to have any political, modern, right-wing, or left-wing. Can't we just... [[It's a waste of time.]] You say it's a waste of time. You know what, Mr Pięta? Let me tell you something. There will be a time when Law and Justice will disappear from the political scene. [[We're all gonna disappear.]] [[We'll have to wait.]] There will be a time when the voters will show you the red card. There will be a time when these changes in the Penal Code will be passed... [[Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: I doubt that.]] ...I'm saying this from this podium, and I'm gonna do it. Thank you. [[Extremely professive, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u329	Mother of God! In what mode, sir? [[Correct, Marshal.]] Please, sir. One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! From this speaker you spoke about journalists who didn't like what you said. The adoption of the solutions you are proposing would be a restriction on freedom of expression. Poland is a free country, a country where freedom of speech prevails. As long as we have an influence on the shaping of political reality, Commissioner, Poland will not be a country dictatorship of political correctness... [[Voice from the O.R. Or a woman's voice.]] ...dictature of falsely understood tolerance. Whatever happens, let's leave the providence behind. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: May I? Corrigendum. Well, it was addressed to me. One minute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u331	One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u332	Mr President, respect and tolerance are something that should apply to each and every one of us. Freedom of speech? Of course. But freedom of speech that doesn't destroy another man who doesn't cross that line. You forget that. Freedom of speech cannot cross the border, leads to intolerance, disrespect. Remember that. [[It's already over, my fellow Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u333	Thank you, Member. [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: It is freedom of speech.]] High Izbo! I would like to inform you that a delegation of the Vietnamese-Polish Society is listening to our deliberations. At the head of the delegation that you invited Senator Grzegorz Napieralski is his Excellency Ambassador to Vietnam in Poland. We would like to welcome you very warmly. [[Applause]] The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the draft law amending the Penal Code Act. The main objective of today's draft amendment to the Criminal Code is to ensure effective legal protection against criminal offences motivated by prejudice on grounds of gender, gender identity, age, disability and sexual orientation. These categories are to be included under the amendment in the composition of the previously protected features, such as national, ethnic, racial, political, religious or non-denominational. It is not currently a crime to call for hatred on grounds of sex, sexual orientation, gender identity and disability, nor is it a crime to insult a group of people because of these personal characteristics. It should be stressed that those affected by such treatment can now claim their rights from a private accusation. Question: "Is such a solution sufficient when someone uses violence or a threat that is unlawful against the whole category of persons with a particular trait?" After all, by discriminated against someone because of the older age, we de facto humiliate all the elderly, not just the injured. Insufficient criminal protection of victims of discrimination was brought to Poland's attention by international human rights authorities. The introduction of amendments to the Criminal Code to punish hate crimes as acts of discrimination and violence based on sexual orientation, disability and age recommended Poland's Committee against Torture. The Human Rights Committee recommended Poland to revise the Penal Code by introducing a definition of hate speech and hate crime based on sexual orientation or gender identity and by recognising these acts as crimes. Similarly, the Committee on Children's Rights mentioned in its recommendations an amendment to the Criminal Code in order to take into account the specific features of hate speech and racism-related crimes and xenophobia. The fact that the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, to which we are a party, also requires us to establish effective legislation and policies to ensure that cases of abuse, violence and abuse against persons with disabilities are identified, investigated and, where appropriate, prosecuted. The European Court of Human Rights also draws attention to the need to punish these discriminatory behaviours. Ladies and gentlemen, everything is about the practical application of the proposed provisions. What exactly will be punished after the introduction of new categories of characteristics protected from insult, and what will still be permitted, within the framework of civilized discourse, criticism? We're missing that definition, we're missing that definition. There is an extremely large provision that can be inserted into any statement that will not be the affirmation of these groups. That's what our concerns are about. Are we not going to fire the baby with a bath and, in order to protect the dignity of other groups of people, go too far in narrowing down the field of the allowed debate? Everyone's dignity, regardless of their gender, gender, age, disability and sexual orientation, is equally important and worth protecting. But freedom of expression, including those not wise, is also worth protecting. By agreeing to freedom, we agree to exist in a public space of margin, which most of us probably wouldn't shake hands with, which she wouldn't want anything to do with. Dear Members of the applicant, so-called: The haters won't cease to exist if you shut their mouths. At most, they'll radicalize themselves even more without a voice. Until, finally, pushed to the margin, they explode with a hateful mouth that has no other exit than Anders Breivik in Norway. Let us remind you that Norway is a country with very high standards of political correctness, and these standards did not protect Norway from one of the biggest crimes due to xenophobia. High Izbo, Parliamentary Club PSL proposes that the project be directed to further work in committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u335	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft resolution on the proposal to establish an EU correction mechanism for the allocation of refugees and a financial solidarity mechanism (print No 894). I ask Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, to present the justification for the draft resolution. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u336	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by talking about the reasons for the motion for a resolution by the European Union's Committee on Affairs. These recitals, of course, stem from the fact that the Commission for European Union Affairs is, on the basis of the so-called. the co-operation law and the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Commission empowered and obliged to evaluate draft legal acts of the European Union. The Commission has received, as one of such acts, a draft regulation on the establishment of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person. This is a proposal submitted by the European Commission, proposed and opiniond also by national parliaments, including on behalf of the Sejm addressed to the Commission for European Union Affairs. The Commission has several options at this stage - it can give an opinion on the resolution positively or negatively, it may also, where the matter is of particular importance, propose a resolution to the Sejm so that the whole House, as in this case, refers to the substantive content of the project. The Commission may also propose to the High House a draft resolution which draws attention to the infringement of the subsidiarity principle by the draft European legislative act. And such a draft resolution was also proposed. Yesterday, she presented it late in the evening, President Isabella Kloc. The second element of this response, as the matter is of particular importance, is the proposal for a resolution in which the Sejm will refer to the corrective mechanism for the allocation of refugees and so-called. The financial solidarity mechanism, which is part of this proposal made by the European Commission. In this resolution, it is worth highlighting a few threads. Firstly, the Sejm, if the High House adopts this draft resolution, will once again refer to the position expressed in its resolution on 1 April 2016, in which it will oppose any attempt to establish permanent mechanisms for the allocation of refugees or migrants. This resolution was adopted in April, but this should be emphasised once again, as this proposal for a legislative act is presented by the European Commission. In its draft resolution, the Commission for European Affairs also points out that the European Commission's proposed relocation correction mechanism, rather than limiting the influx of migrants, could in fact lead to an increase in the influx of migrants, in particular from the southern direction. On the other hand, the so-called. a financial solidarity mechanism that would impose a levy on you, which is actually a penalty for not adapting the State to the relocation mechanism - a high penalty, because in the amount of 250 thousand. the euro per person, one not allocated by the migrant country. Such a proposal clearly violates the sovereignty of a Member State, not only of Poland, of all the Member States of the European Union, and in fact limits independence in the context of decision-making on the shaping of migration policy and verification of people arriving in Poland. The adoption of the regulation proposed by the European Commission would therefore violate the competences of the Member States in the fields of social policy, internal security and integration policy. It is therefore important and appropriate for the Sejm to be clear, decisively, in line with the Commission's proposal for European Union Affairs. He reacted and reacted negatively to the European Commission's proposals, which are controversial, harmful, questionable by law. And that's what this resolution is talking about. On behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I ask the High House to adopt the proposed draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u337	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u338	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honour of presenting my club's position on the draft resolution. And this position is as follows. This draft resolution concerns a response to a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation No 604/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 from document COM270 of 2016. The proposals for mandatory and automatic solutions contained in this document are unacceptable, so the overall assessment of this act is negative. Why, ladies and gentlemen? I will refer to this document. There are controversial proposals on the so-called. financial solidarity, according to which there is even a burden of 250 000. the euro for any unaccepted refugee who would be selected under the allocation mechanism. It should be pointed out that this is a kind of emphasis on Member States reluctant to accept refugees in the framework of mechanisms imposed from above. Marshal, the High Sejm, as regards the Office for Sejm Analysis, says in the opinion of this office: the proposed regulation violates the principle of subsidiarity in relation to the so-called. the corrective allocation mechanism and the so-called mechanism. the solidarity contribution. Poland is not confined to refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that many refugees from the East, from war zones, come to us, find shelter here, find work. Students from across the eastern border study at universities. I will say that this has been noticed at the summits of the Central European Initiative recently held in Ljubljana and Italy. The initiative brings together 18 countries. There it was clearly stated that Poland is open. Here we are often accused of being locked up, of being unreliable, etc. Nothing worse, ladies and gentlemen. We are united and open, but this cannot be done on the basis of the principles set out in the regulation I have pointed out here. Furthermore, with regard to further controversial proposals, I would like to point out that, as far as Poland is concerned, it is also unacceptable to have the amount imposed in advance, and the Sejm has made a clear statement on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, by carefully examining document COM270, which was examined in detail at the meeting of the Commission for European Affairs, here the rapporteur presented this by examining the statements of the government, and by examining the statements of the various clubs, individual Members at the meeting of the Commission for European Affairs, I would like to say that this resolution deserves support. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, we fully support the draft resolution tabled by the rapporteur. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u339	Thank you, sir. And I ask Mr Andrzej Czerwinski to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u340	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The problem of refugees in general in Europe and in general in the world is a fundamental problem for national leaders and communities such as the European Union. The situation is very dynamic and changing, you can say, not so much from day to day as from week to week or from month to month, because the whole of Europe, most countries are looking for an optimal solution. You can't say that what used to be good today is better. If there is a better solution, then you have to take it as the one to be implemented. It is not about someone showing that they could come up with a solution to the problem, but that this way of solving a very difficult case is approved by the rich, poor, by those who are very afraid, and those who sometimes expect refugees or immigrants. as a desirable labour force. I'll make a statement on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. I would like to start by saying that we did not object to this resolution in the European Commission, so it would be unreasonable if we protested against this resolution. I wouldn't want to tell you in detail why. Well, the justification is simple. This proposal from the European Parliament, the European Council, is simply obsolete. These amounts simply raised reservations, including ours. These amounts, the financial situation or the financial consequences in our case, in our country's case, are simply unfair. We also had yesterday's statement by Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, that the next decisions were made that there would be no so-called. a la carte that someone will choose what's best for him on the menu, and let the other worry about what to do about it. We're still looking for the best solution. If I'm going to judge whether to give a position on what's going on, I'm going to express a certain surprise. The Government of Law and Justice has all the tools to negotiate, listen, to present a proposal to settle a case. We have heard from the Prime Minister that we will solve refugee problems where this problem arises in the countries from which they are fleeing. But this is not a solution for now, because these people are at national borders, they are dying at sea, refugees are mixed with migrants who are looking for a better material existence. These matters cannot be resolved simply, it requires discussion, not just protesting every proposal that is put forward by people who want to solve this matter. If we are talking about the need for public consultation, then we should find a solution to make our society feel like a co-host to solve this burning problem. What are the examples in Poland? Me, for example. He was very surprised by a programme, a project in which threats were trained in the local government and trained to protect themselves from the wave of refugees. It is good that someone predicts that this can happen, but I do not hear that somewhere in local governments, somewhere in the environments, shows how this matter can be handled positively. Poland has good experience in this area and has some caution against pushing untested, just not the best solutions. Therefore, on behalf of the Platform Club, I say that we will support the draft resolution, but I encourage, above all, the government, to engage in these discussions which could be quickly and effectively [[♪ The bell ♪]] Address the refugee problem in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u341	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr Bartosz Józwiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u342	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the resolution of the European Union Commission on the proposal to establish an EU corrective mechanism for the allocation of refugees and a mechanism for financial solidarity. In our view, this project, which is proposed by the European Union, is an absolutely unacceptable project - it is unacceptable by any self-state of the European Union. This is a rehearsal. imposing a dictatorship on the Member States of the European Union. This mechanism is so dangerous that it is trying to create a permanent mechanism for the allocation of refugees and additionally financial penalties, which are very high, imposed on countries that, contrary to their interest, their internal interests, will not want to accept these migrants. Poland actually has very good mechanisms to protect against the wave of migration at the moment, while also having good experience in receiving refugees and providing assistance or caring for refugees. We should not be persuaded at the moment to adopt laws or directives that really destroy the order we have. Not so long ago we saw a map that appeared on the Internet, since you were showing it to Saryusz-Wolski. On this map of Europe Poland was a white spot, but a proud white spot about how we are dealing with e.g. in Europe, also in Poland, whether there are any terrorist threats, whether there are any crimes related to the large wave, the influx of migrants who are not fully verified. And let's keep this status quo, let's not try to ruin it. This mechanism that the European Union is trying to impose on us is a solution that is probably interested in countries that have made very unwise decisions before. I will not point to these countries, but one has a capital in Berlin. So as not to be literal around here... This is really bringing, and very often also contrary to EU law, a multitude of migrants to the European Union, and now to share the problem that has created itself, with all others. Those who refuse to accept this division will be punished financially. Dear country, the only country that then, during this wave of migration, stood at the level of the task and actually complied with EU law was Hungary, which Brussels condemned. The Germans did not stand up to the task, did not fulfil their obligations as a Member State of the European Union. And today we are to share this problem. At the same time, this mechanism is intended to ensure that also in the future, when one European country makes such an unreasonable mistake, we will all bear the consequences. This agreement cannot and absolutely support the position and opinion of the Commission for European Union Affairs in order to strongly resist and reject this unfortunate project. There's one more thing I'd like to say. In this project we are talking about refugees, but it is really an attempt to change the definition of refugees. A refugee, as you all know, is a person who seeks refuge in the nearest safe country in relation to the country from which he escapes because of persecution or danger of his own life. What we are dealing with in Europe is mostly economic migration, not refugee migration. Therefore, let us not be afraid that someone will stigmatize us, that Poland does not want refugees. No, Poland does not want economic migrants, Poland does not want a threat. Poland is not opposed to receiving refugees, but let us do it wisely, in accordance with Polish law, as it is accepted today. It'll keep us a safe country. Kukiz15 will strongly support the resolution of the European Union's Committee on Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u343	I would like to ask the floor of Małgorzata Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on the proposal to establish an EU corrective mechanism for the allocation of refugees and a mechanism of financial solidarity. The applicant for the proposed resolution of the Polish Sejm on the proposal to establish an EU corrective mechanism for the allocation of refugees and the financial solidarity mechanism proposes to maintain the position expressed in its resolution of 1 April 2016 on the immigration policy of Poland, in which he opposed any attempts to establish permanent mechanisms for the allocation of refugees or migrants. The proposed regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending their own Regulation No 604/2013 of 26 June 2013 infringes the principle of subsidiarity and its adoption would violate the competences of the Member States with regard to the social security system, internal security policy and integration policy. Moreover, the introduction of such a system of redistribution of migrants could lead to an increase in the flow of illegal immigrants to the European Union and thus to Poland. I will also remind you that the leaders of some countries of the European Union, inviting Muslim emigrants, did not ask Poland for advice and cannot hold us responsible for their mistakes today. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u345	Thank you, Member. Are there anyone else willing to sign up for questions? If not, I'm closing the list of people who are saved for questions. The time for questioning is 1 minute. The first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo. You're welcome, sir. There isn't? Then I ask Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski to ask a question. There isn't any either. This is Mr Richard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have been hearing for a year that Poland is getting up from its knees. You can see that you understand this country as a governing party as saying the European Union: no, no, no. This project is exactly in this convention. It refers to the draft regulation in principle no longer valid and in this sense is completely premature and unnecessary. The basic question needs to be asked: What are your positive proposals? You could afford one such positive paragraph sketching these solutions. But please don't talk about a million Ukrainians, okay? Because for now, they're saving the job market, and that's not the story. For now, you are proposing such preventive moves towards the European Commission a la Orbán. Glory be to you that in this imitation you are not so passionate. I see this, of course, a certain nucleus of rationality, because on the fence along the south and east border at the tense [[♪ The bell ♪]] We certainly can't afford the 2017 budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u347	Thank you, sir. And I ask Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There are many positive examples that could be multiplied in terms of government activities, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. [[Multiply, please.]] Even if I remind you that at our borders, at the borders of the European Union, in Greece within the framework of Frontex, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Hungary, also in Slovenia, there are our police officers, there are our guards. Slovenia has thanked us very much lately. There were 30 guards. So that these examples of positive solidarity are, in so doing, to the Member. I would like to thank the government for these actions and ask whether these actions will continue and whether these actions are welcome by these Member States. I know because I'm on the Central European Initiative that I am. Never, at any meeting it happened that someone denied Polish aid, pointed to a lack of Polish solidarity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that I thank the government once again for these actions and for their support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u349	Thank you, sir. The list of speakers has been exhausted. I therefore ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Minister Jakub Skiba to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer questions addressed to the government by Mr Czerwiński and later by Mr Gołoiuch. In total, these two questions come down to one, i.e. to the government's actions in the current situation. Ladies and gentlemen, the government wants to be and is consistent in this matter. Here is a contrast to what the previous government did. I have to make this very clear at this point. The previous government also declared to be against the imposition of automatic quotas, but it decided exactly against its declarations. In this context, the current government is pursuing a consistent policy, which is absolutely not directed against refugees, but is directed against certain, very serious, pathologies that the refugee crisis only causes. The main point and point of our assessment in the current situation is that Europe's policy is a pull factor and attracts yet another very large crowd, not refugees, but economic migrants, because it is very easy to make a serious mistake in this regard. Therefore, this process is completely uncontrollable. Poland's position is as constructive as possible and the Polish government keeps in touch and negotiates with the European Commission. We are very active, we are present at all the meetings of the Council for Foreign Affairs. The Justice and Home Affairs dimension, we have an active position, we have a lot of bilateral contacts with other European Member States, which, I must say, have an effect, because our position is becoming more and more solid throughout Europe. It is, once again, that we are convinced that the root causes of this refugee crisis must be eliminated on the ground. In this respect, Poland is active. I'll quote the data from today. 12 million zlotys were allocated to the aid of 10,000 zlotys. refugees in Lebanon. We are also present in Jordan and anywhere else and this help will increase. On the other hand, we certainly do not agree that the existing regulations and the principle of the protection of Europe's external borders should be undermined. In this respect, we also offer our active participation, because not only do we protect our external borders in Europe, but we are also very active in all Frontex operations, just as we will be active in this newly established European Border and Coast Guard Agency. We are present in Greece, we are present in Bulgaria, we are also present in other countries under bilateral agreements. Suffice it to say that at this moment 150 of our border guards are on foreign missions. I reply to the Member: of course, yes, our commitment will not only be maintained, but it will continue to grow significantly. I would also like to stress that we are meticulously fulfilling the Geneva Convention, the laws in force in Poland, as well as all European regulations. We are a country that accepts all refugee applications, asylum from all these spontaneous, emerging refugees within our borders. We cannot be accused of anything in this regard. We object only to this faulty, pathology-forming system of automatic relocation, because we believe that this is absolutely incompatible with the interests not only of Poland, but also of Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u351	Thank you. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants Mr Szymon Szynkowski, aka Sęk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u352	Thank you very much, Marshal. The Minister has said a lot about this commitment here. Starting with my speech, I first said why the European Union's Committee on Affairs in general formulates and proposes this draft resolution to the High House. Because there's been an offer... I do not agree that this proposal is obsolete. Please give me an argument, give me the reason why you are saying that this proposal is not valid. In a political sense, her support has fallen significantly. I agree that at the moment it seems unlikely that anyone who takes her seriously in the European Union is very good, but she has not been legally withdrawn all the time, she has been directed to the opinion of national parliaments and we should issue such an opinion. And just so that this opinion is determined to strongly oppose such unreasonable and - once again I stress - questionable mechanisms such as this corrective mechanism of relocation or so-called. The financial solidarity mechanism - the word "solidarity" is, in my opinion, an outstanding factor in this act - such a voice on the part of the Sejm should fall and hence this proposal for a resolution. And since it refers to a specific proposal for a legislative act of the European Commission, it will not describe the whole broad context of Poland's proposals in an intergovernmental forum - said the Minister - in the context of the resolution of the refugee crisis, because this is not the case. Here is the opinion of the Sejm on a specific legislative act and this opinion appears, but maybe, since Mr Wilczyński was not satisfied, he does not have full knowledge of Poland's projects - the Minister said a lot about it - for my part I will allow myself to supplement this information and say that the total value of Polish humanitarian aid in response to the migration crisis, including the European Union's trust funds, will amount to PLN 42 million in 2016 and will be twice as large as in 2015. [[Shock and disbelief.]] The year 2015 seems to be the year of the state of government, if I remember correctly. Poland joined the European Union trust fund for Syria with a contribution of EUR 3 million. Together with the Visegrad Group countries, we joined the trust fund for Africa with a contribution of EUR 1.1 million, the V4 contributions total EUR 3 million. We have decided to join the EU Mobility Partnership with Lebanon and Jordan. We are committed to supporting Iraq and Lebanon, including border protection. The Minister spoke of Frontex's support. There are also study visits, such as the Sudanese migration services. There are so many projects that I do not want to take your time right now, because this is the last item of the Sejm's meeting, but I would really like to explain it, although this is not exactly the subject of this position of the Sejm, so I will not do it now. I am only saying this so that the Member may feel even partially satisfied. I ask the High House to strongly criticise this corrective mechanism in the resolution of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u353	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my views on the Commission's draft resolution on the proposal to establish an EU correction mechanism for the allocation of refugees and a mechanism for financial solidarity. Migration policy issues are one of the biggest challenges facing the European Community. Comprehensive solutions need to be developed because one element cannot only be focused on. This will not solve problems that have not been caused by Europe. Europe has become the victim of an unthinkable international policy. At the same time, I wanted to stress that the European Union, as a community of values, cannot remain indifferent to the tragedy that is taking place before our eyes. Humanitarian aid for war zones should be natural in any case possible. It's our duty. High Izbo! I fully support our earlier opposition to the permanent mechanism for allocating refugees. Many times I have said that it is not okay to invite guests alone and then force their neighbors to provide accommodation and food. You cannot force and punish others to participate in this aid. This also applies to current proposals governing both refugees and the internal issues of the state. Today I hear the voices of the PiS intending to help the poorest by raising taxes and fees to the remaining Poles. Angela Merkel also wanted to help immigrants. It has the right to do so, but it must not cost the rest of the Community. Prime Minister Beata Szydło wants to help the poorest, and very well, but not by raising taxes for millions of Poles. Transferring from pocket to pocket is not help, it is artificial, PR-owska, creative accounting that will hit millions of Poles. Neither is my consent. The parliamentary club is in favour of further work on the committee's draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u355	On behalf of the Modern Club, I inform you that the club proposes that the draft resolution be directed to second reading, supporting its content in the leading assumptions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u356	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, like the vast majority of Members of the Polish Parliament, to support the proposed resolution. We, Members, must protect you in such matters and listen to the voice of the society, which in the vast majority is against the influx of foreign culturally illegal immigrants into our country. We must not be forced by anybody to accept these immigrants and, if refused, be punished by the European Union with horrendous financial penalties. We cannot agree to go on suicide like other countries. Just watch and listen to what is happening in France, Germany and other countries of Western Europe. Paris with the mecca of tourists in front of our eyes becomes a dumpster, and the level of safety is approaching the level in the worst districts of large cities in Latin America. We cannot set an example from a number of European Union countries. On the contrary, we must try to convince the Union of the rightness of our arguments and our conduct. Just as the Western countries have provided for the whole dramatic situation, contributing to the release of hate demons in the Middle East and Africa, so now they should do their utmost to suppress and allow the peaceful lives of the people there. Can we, Poles, imagine another alternative? Definitely not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u357	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm send a draft resolution to the Commission on the proposal to establish an EU corrective mechanism for the allocation of refugees and a mechanism of financial solidarity, contained in print No 894, to the European Union's Committee on Affairs and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 28th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. A list of Members notified... [[I signed up.]] ...for the statements I therefore consider... You're written down, sir. ... behind closed doors. I would like to make a statement by Mr Jarosław Goncier. There isn't. In that case, Mr Dominik Tarczyński. In that case, Mrs Katarzyna Osos, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u358	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! My statement will refer to two positions: the Lubuskie Agricultural Forum and trade unions associated with the Lubuskie Agricultural Forum, which have entered my office and which I would like to present to the High House. I would also like to call for action, because I cannot allow the issues presented in the positions to remain unanswered. High Izbo! In its position of 13 October, the Lubuskie Agricultural Forum informed that it had decided to suspend the participation of its representatives in the work of social councils and other institutions at the level of the voivodship. Its decision justifies the difficult situation in agriculture and administrative chaos caused by personnel castles in agricultural institutions, as well as ignoring the agricultural environment in making key decisions on agriculture in Lubuskie voivodship. On the other hand, the trade unions of the Lubuskie Agricultural Forum announced protest ambulances in the Lubuskie Voivodship. The reason for their decision was the lack of social dialogue with agricultural organisations, the unfavourable distribution of EU funds in the new perspective for Lubuskie voivodship, the worsening economic situation in all sectors of agricultural production. The Lubuskie Agricultural Forum works primarily for agriculture and farmers, represents their interests, knows perfectly well the pains and problems farmers must face. Hence, the forum's voice should be taken into account in particular. Unfortunately, for some time now, the agricultural environment has shown a lack of cooperation from state institutions operating in the agricultural field in our territory. Their opinions were ignored, their positions on matters of importance for Lubuskie agriculture were not taken into account. I myself have pointed out these problems to the Minister on several occasions and I have asked him to take action. Unfortunately, no one saw the problem, and you can see that the problem is getting worse. Today I refer again from this place to the High House, and especially to the parliamentary majority and the Minister. You were going to the election with the motto of a good change. There was supposed to be dialogue, cooperation, listening to citizens. They were beautiful slogans, too bad they didn't reflect in reality. But mistakes can be fixed. I therefore hope that the Minister will draw attention to the Lubuskie farmers, engage with them in dialogue, cooperation and work for them. That's what the farmers are expecting, Minister. They expect your actions to contribute to the development of agriculture and serve farmers instead of causing chaos and mess. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u359	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Jan Mosiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to introduce the outstanding, extraordinary figure of Professor Antoni Kalina, outstanding slavist, ethnographer, social activist, member of the Academy of Skills, born in Ostrów Wielkopolski on 23 May 1846, who died in Lviv on 3 May 1906. On the 170th anniversary of the birth of Antoni Kalina and the 110th anniversary of the death of Professor Rada Ostrów Wielkopolski, Krêpa no. 3 commemorated the character of Prof. Kalina, organizing a festival for this purpose. I would like to thank the organizers, i.e. the Council of Housing No. 3 Krêpa in Ostrów Wielkopolski and the Association of the Five for Generations, which operates at Primary School No. 5. I would also like to mention that the authorities of Ostrów Wielkopolski declared 2016 the Year of Prof. Kalina. Once again, I thank the authorities of Ostrów Wielkopolski, the Council of Housing No. 3 Krêpa in Ostrów Wielkopolski and the Association of the Five for Generations also for the fact that I was able to enjoy this day with them, the family festival and remember the character of an outstanding person, as I have already mentioned, a slavist, member of the Academy of Skills. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u361	Thank you very much. Mr Wilczyński will be the last to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u362	Mr. Marshal! Dear citizens of Opole - in particular citizens of municipalities affected by the enlargement of the city of Opole! There is no doubt that the expansion of the city's borders is a historical fact, which will be important from the point of view of the region's history, from the point of view of the city. Unfortunately, I find it painful to say that the fact that Opole's city is enlarged will, first of all, be written in history by protest of the inhabitants, almost a social revolt involving hundreds of people in the streets, in the squares of Opole and in the streets of the communes, and even thousands of people. I am talking about this as a person associated with this region, who remembers these moments from 1998, when people on the streets won the fact that Opole voivodship exists. It was the disagreement with arbitrary ruling decisions that was a constitutional element for our region. Today, the opposite happens, contrary to the ethos of Opole region, with the ethos of the region. Nevertheless, I would like to pay my respects to those people who have said no, say no to breaking their identity, for such an obnoxious treatment of discord. You're the ones who proved what self-government is. You reminded her back in the day when everyone thinks the community is just a pie on the map. No, dear citizens, this community is something that defines us, which tells us what the identity of the local community is. That line on the map isn't a line. This is the area where our little homeland functions. And you reminded Poland of what self-government is, what the local community is, what the community is. It's gonna stay. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the city of Opole, the authorities of Opole, had the right to apply, have the right to see the future of the city in this approach. I do not agree with this approach because I believe that it is absolutely contrary to the European experience and practice of spatial development in terms of depopulation. That's another topic. However, it must be made clear that the responsibility for what has happened and the responsibility for what is going to happen rests entirely with the rule of law and justice, with the government of the PiS. He's the one who decided arbitraryly. This is the first time in history he's left out the arguments of social protest. Self-government, self-government in Poland does not know such a case when the boundaries of the city are increasing in this way. It's not a good way. This way will have its consequences. Two days ago, a meeting of the local government committee took place, where representatives of the municipalities showed how immature this decision was, how much at least two municipalities were deprived of the foundations of growth, the foundations of development, the potential for development, and taking away their investment areas. We know that the municipality will not close its budget well for 8 million. We know that a one-time subsidy from Opole City is not going to do this, especially since the local community is so affected that it probably doesn't want to or will not take it. There is time to respond to the submission of the Civic Platform to the Sejm to draw up a compensation bill for such cases. For now, our speech has been ignored. There is a time for the government to withdraw from the regulation in the Opole section. Perhaps this decision is to be made, but not at such a time, not at a time when you can see that the functioning of the municipalities is at risk. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that all these problems will somehow be dealt with through discretion and wisdom, but there is no doubt that the most prudent, the most wise and the most foresightful should be the government of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u363	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u364	Statement on the 135th anniversary of colonel's birth. Stanislaw Thiel. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's 135 today. colonel's birthday anniversary. Stanisław Thiel - insurgent of Greater Poland, during World War II commander of the Provincial of Western Lands of the National Armed Forces. Stanisław Thiel was born on October 20, 1881 in Wrocław. In his hometown he graduated from junior high school and took agricultural practices in Silesia and Pomerania and then started his studies at the Agricultural Faculty of the University of Wrocław. In 1905 he took over the family estate in Doruczów near Ostrzeszów. In August 1914. Thiel was called to the German army. He was promoted to captain, and he was decorated for fighting in France and Russia. The Iron Cross of the first and second classes. In November 1918. Thiel's back in Douche. After the outbreak of the Uprising in Wielkopolska, he took command of the local front section and was subsequently appointed commander of forces in the Ostrzeszów-Kępinski section. He organized a battalion of about 700 people and opposed the German Grenschutz (the protection of eastern borders). At that time, he fought victorious battles with the Germans. Decree of 13 April 1919 Thiel was appointed lieutenant and then captain of the Greater Poland troops. A few months later, he took command of 11. The Greater Poland Strzelców Regiment, at the head of which in January 1920 he participated in the attachment of Kępna to Poland. Since April 1920 he worked as Deputy Head of Department I of the Ministry of Military Affairs in Warsaw, but at his own request he returned to the linear service. He's taken command of 69. Infantry regiment, then 33. The Infantry Brigade. He also served as Commander 17. Infantry Division. For his participation in the fights he was awarded the cross of Virtuti Militari V class, he also received four times the Cross of Valiant. After entering the Germans in September 1939 he left Doruczy and stayed in Podlasie. At the beginning of October he returned to the territory of the Ostrzeszów district, where he was soon arrested and imprisoned in the Ostrzeszów prison and then in Poznań. He was fired by the intervention of General Walter von Reichenau, a companion of arms from World War I. After entering Warsaw, he became involved in the movement of independence conspiracy, joining the National Military Organization. In mid-1942 he was part of the National Armed Forces. He then took over the command of the Western Land Province with its registered office in Warsaw. Stanisław Thiel died suddenly on 9 October 1943. He was buried in the Powęzkowski cemetery, and in 1965 he was moved to the family tomb in Doruczów. At the request of the commander of the NSZ colonel. Tadeusz Kurcyusz was posthumously promoted to the rank of Brigadier General in January 1944. The fate of the colonel's immediate family has also been tragic. Thiela. His wife Maria died in a prison hospital, Krystyna's daughter died as a paramedic in the Warsaw Uprising, Stanisław's son, an AK soldier, supposedly died in the camp of Radogoszcz, the second of her daughters, Katarzyna, died of tuberculosis. Only the youngest son of Kazimierz survived the war from all over the family.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u365	8 October 2016 The youth Choir of Canto and the Music School Complex in Włocławek celebrated the 25th anniversary. It was a great honor and pride for me to attend a beautiful jubilee concert. As an art professional, I experienced this unique celebration of conductor, choirists and their parents. The beauty of choir music can only survive if it is recorded permanently in the hearts and minds of performers and listeners. It's signed up and it's still... The numerous successes of the Choir under the baton of Marian Szczepański in Polish and foreign competitions and festivals testify to the high level of the team, the individual and emotional involvement of choirists. To be moved by the singing of the hearts of the hearers, by a kind of sensibility that in the heart of man arouses a desire for good deeds, is a success on an equal footing with this confirmed diploma and reward. The Jubilee induces reflection and memories of those who created the choir and supported its development for years. The ceremony reminds all participants that both performers and teachers, parents and people cooperating with the choir over the years have become ambassadors of Włocławka both in Poland and abroad. This deserves respect, recognition and undoubted admiration for perseverance, dedication, and tedious work. Thank you very much for all this today, Professor Conductor. On the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the choir's call to life, Canto, I make the warm wishes of endless stage and personal successes and silent applause of the listeners. May the shared passion and love of beautiful music be a constant need for development and a gift from heart to heart. Let your singing cross the line! You are sent in your own way to spread God's joy and by your singing to show that faith is stronger than doubting that hope is stronger than hopelessness, that love is stronger than death. [[John Paul II]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u366	21 October 1963 at 3 p.m. 15.40 died in a fight during the security manhunt Józef Franczak ps. Dolls, the last soldier in the anti-communist underground. The date of his death also became a symbolic date closing the story of the battle of the cursed soldiers, the fight for free Poland, the fight for the honor of the Polish soldier. Józef Franczak was a soldier of the Polish Army, in September 1939 escaped from Soviet captivity, joined the ZWZ-AK, fought in the guerrilla troops of the Lublin district of the AK. After the arrival of the Soviets in 1944, he did not surrender his weapon, fought against the Soviet occupation in a group led by Jerome Dekutowski. In total, he spent 24 years in combat and conspiracy. After the death of the communist authorities, his body was decapitated and laid down in a nameless grave. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u367	I declare that in the vote no. 57 I voted against the draft law on the restructuring of loans denominated or indexed to a currency other than the Polish currency and on the prohibition of granting such loans. My intention was to vote against rejection of the bill. I'd like this information to be included in the file for the posterity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u368	I declare that in the vote no. 57 I voted against the draft law on the restructuring of loans denominated or indexed to a currency other than the Polish currency and on the prohibition of granting such loans. My intention was to vote against rejection of the bill. I'd like this information to be included in the file for the posterity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u369	A week of Christian culture. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to tell you about the Christian Culture Week which took place in Radom. They were held under the motto Cultura Porta Fidei - a culture of the gate of faith. This event is organized cyclically in our city and has great interest in the inhabitants. On September 2nd, 9th, there were events related, among others. with theatre, literature, art, film, music. The celebration of the Week of Christian Culture began at the church of Our Lady of Mercy with a solemn Mass with a concert of Sine nomine, performed by the Youth String Orchestra of Divertimento. In the following days, among others. there was a screening of the movie "How God Gives," which enjoyed great interest both adults and young people. These events involve many artists who present their talents on this occasion. There was an overview of amateur theatres of students from Radom high schools. There were many exhibitions accompanying outstanding painters or graphic designers related to religious subjects. As part of the book promotion Roman passions. The eternal city station churches were prepared to meet Hanna Suchocka, former Polish ambassador to the Holy See, who told the audience about her experiences. In the Citizen's Resurse there was a opening of the exhibition of painting and drawing by Henryk Sarna The viewers had the opportunity to watch the film Babette Feast in dir. Gabriel Axel. The film is one of Pope Francis' favorite films. Subtle, figurative scenes and threads, the work highlights the value of the selfless gift of love that leads to happiness. At the end, you could see the spectacle based on the Marian Anthems of R. Brandstaeter, entitled: Internalisation. Mysterium prepared by artists of the Radom School of Music. The accompanying events were also exhibitions at the Radom Village Museum in Radom: The Images of Our Lady in the Collections of the Radom Village Museum, the sacral dimension of the world. Religious performances in wooden sculpture. So much interest in the Christian theme proves that such initiatives are needed, all the more so the fact that Christian Culture Week is held in my city makes me happy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u370	I declare that in the vote no. 57 I voted against the draft law on the restructuring of loans denominated or indexed to a currency other than the Polish currency and on the prohibition of granting such loans. My intention was to vote against rejection of the bill. I'd like this information to be included in the file for the posterity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u371	High Seym! In May 1945, the sounds of battlefields quieted down and the reconstruction of the country destroyed by war began. Today this period is associated primarily with the reconstruction of Warsaw, but few remember that before Poland there was a task much more difficult than the heroic work of lifting from the ruins of the millionth city. One third of the new Polish country were German lands, which, contrary to popular belief today, were not a land of milk and honey flowing. Destroyed and looted cities, empty buildings after disassembled and exported to the Soviet countries factories, railway embankments without tracks, villages without one piece of inventory, looted houses. Before the destroyed, bloody and exhausted Polish war, an unimaginable, titanic work of inhabiting the land, rebuilding and joining with the reborn homeland was created. Very quickly, thanks to the inexpensive energy and determination of Poles, passionate patriotism and sacrifice, this unknown land, terra incognita, became a terra integrala, a land united with the homeland. This almost forgotten episode of our history today is the most glorious, most noble manifestation of the force stimulated to act of the Polish spirit. The Polish Church played a historic and glorious role in this work. The presence of a priest in repatriation transports from the East was often a condition for consent to settle in the Recovered Lands. The whole villages were coming, with a parish priest at the head, who led his sheepfold and was a place of order for people in the land of lawlessness and uncoupled structures of power. The priest's presence gave him a sense of security, soothing the sense of temporaryness felt by almost 5 million Poles displaced to these areas in the first 3 postwar years. The soon opened churches and chapels became the first Polish institutions, and the first Holy Masses became the first manifestations of Polish life and meetings of Polish collectiveity. Immediately, because already in August 1945, card. August Hlond, under the special powers of Pope Pius XII, has been vigorously engaged in the creation of ecclesiastical administration on the Recovered Lands. Words and references are missing to show the greatness and significance of the work undertaken by the Polish Church at that time. One of the first to arrive in this area was Fr. John Zieja, a legendary priest, an extraordinary figure, radiating the evangelical good and true Christian attitude. Just these days in the capital, among others. in the church of the Sisters of Visitors, there are beautifully organized anniversary celebrations on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of his death. The honorary patronage has taken over the cardinal. Kazimierz Nycz. Father Jan Zieja already arrived in May 1945 in Słupsk, Pomerania. However, he had been here much earlier, for six months, since November 1944. By order of the Home Army authorities, he traveled these areas - from Eastern Prussia to German Pomerania - as a worker. In Słupsk he developed impressive pastoral and social activities. He organized the People's University in Orzechow Morski, mother's and child's house, library, kitchen for the poor and, unusually, the first in Poland and for many years the only monument of the Warsaw Uprising - Poland thanks its children - erected in 1948 and existing today. Father Jan Zieja survived the entire 20th century, witnessed the most important events of this unique century. A brilliant meteor, a metaphor used once, one that illuminates the sky over the world and restores faith in good. Evangelical poverty combined with Christ's fervent confession. The Chaplain of War 1920, the Defensive War in 1939, the Warsaw Uprising, the AK headquarters, the Grey Private regiment, the Baszt regiment. He swore in conspiracy of people like the rott master Witold Pilecki, confessed, and then performed funeral Masses for heroes such as Janek Bytnar, Rudy, Alexy Dawidowski, Alek, Tadeusz Zawadzki, Zośka. He collaborated with the Council of Helping the Jews by providing the Catholic birth certificates necessary to change the identity of the hiding people. The creator of August - a month of sobriety, based on the idea of using the spiritual capital of the Warsaw Uprising to fight the post-war plague of drunkenness, which, as he said, after 5 years of war without the Gestapo and the camps, caused a huge havoc in society. In 1976 he was among the 14 signatories to the founding call of the Workers' Defence Committee. Today, in times of sharp political divisions, it is worth recalling the phenomenon of the KOR, work for the poor and hurt over political divisions. The KOR gathered people with different political pedigrees, and today political adversaries almost agree that Fr. John Zieja was a great moral authority, bringing in the voice of a wise and righteous man. The Gospel message even reached unbelievers. High Izbo! I consider it a great honor to remind myself in the Polish Sejm of the less famous chapters of the glorious history of our homeland, to express my gratitude to the Polish Church and to worship the great and beautiful figure of Fr. Jana Zia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-sejm-28-3.u372	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 28th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 29th session of the Sejm, convened on 3 and 4 November 2016, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 17 min 01]]
