ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u1	Resume session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. High Senate, we are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Police Act and some other laws. We are now returning to the questions of the government representative. Minister Maciej Wąsik is with us, and I welcome him very warmly. Would any of you senators like to ask the Minister a question? I know the senators are registered... Senator Piotr Wach would like to ask you a question. Is there a senator in the O.R.? I don't see him. Senator Andrzej Bear? He's not here. This is Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. I see your senator. Yes, please, Minister. And I ask the senator to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u2	Minister, first of all, I cannot leave without commenting on your answer and this matter will again concern my question. I told you that, in certain areas, what you are proposing does not guarantee prior checking. You denied it, said you didn't. Meanwhile, based on opinions... I can quote a passage from one of them, pointing out where I learned my knowledge: At the same time, the proposed rules do not provide for a prior check, even if data are to be obtained directly concerning the person performing the profession or function referred to in Article. 180 §2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Moreover, at least with regard to the provision of the data collected, the same opinion states that the control you propose is absolutely insufficient because it imposes an obligation on the police and other services, only such an obligation, and nothing more, to report to the courts once every 6 months covering the number of cases of collection during the reporting period. The question is, why are you doing this? Why don't you want this check on the storage of the data you've collected, the prior check? Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u3	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Good morning, let's begin like this. To answer Senator Augustine's question, I would like to point out that the Senator's opinion has been taken out of context. I continue to stress: this law does not change anything about the consent to operational control. There's a court's prior approval for operational control. And let me get this straight. [[Minister, that's not what I'm talking about.]] Mr. Senator said yesterday... [[That's not what I'm talking about.]] Mr. Senator said yesterday... Please don't interrupt me, Senator, because I didn't interrupt your question. The senator said yesterday that the bill does not provide for prior operational control and data collection. Well, I can't agree with that, which is why I'm paying attention to you. The bill... [[Minister, you're gonna replay that question. I didn't say surgery.]] You didn't say surgery? [[No.]] You were talking about operational control, Senator, and you were talking about downloading data. I'm telling you again: let's read the text of the bill. There's still court control, and no one's even tried to change it. As for the follow-up check on data collection, let me remind you again: there is no control at the moment. The Senate Act proposed a follow-up control and we maintained this follow-up control, as in the Senate Act. And now I'm going to answer you with the question: why did the Senate set up a follow-up check in the last term? I could put a stop to this, but I will answer you, Mr. Senator: because we believe that a follow-up check with this amount of data is the only thing that can be proposed for such a short period of time. In its statement of reasons, the Court considered whether it was worth establishing a body which would generally dealt with such agreements in the State, a supra-courtal independent body. The Court considered it. We also considered it, but we felt that there was no way in such a short time that we had received this bill to make such a change. We considered that the Senate's proposal for the last term was sufficient and that is why we decided to do so. There's gotta be control. The Court has ruled. Let me remind you: 2 million 400 thousand data, 2 million 400,000 data have been asked about them. District courts aren't prepared to make a prior review of such a trial. You guys saw it last term, we confirm it. This could lead to paralysis of both the courts and the services. We can't make that happen. It's a responsible decision. But I would like to stress one more thing, what we said at the committee meeting, what the rapporteur said: we will be watching what it looks like, we will check whether this mechanism is working, we will consult on it. We are open to the attention, also to the opposition, in this area and, as we will need to, we will make changes. Let's see how it works. And let me stress once again: the proposal in this regard does not deviate from the proposal of the Senate from the previous term, which I understand you supported and supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Now you're gonna ask Marshal Borusewicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u6	First, a request from the Minister. Minister, we have a bill, a new bill, for which you take responsibility. Don't hide behind the Senate, okay? Because we're discussing a new bill. And I have to ask you: what counter-intelligence data does the legislator mean about state and defence security when excluding them from the need to destroy them after a certain period of time? Can you give us a few examples and zoom in on this? Because that's a very general term. I think she's still dealing with economic, financial matters that are at odds with the State's interests. So it's pretty stretchy. If this is what's written in the duty of the service... It's pretty stretchy. So I'd like to know what type of data or what type of crime you're talking about is entering the directory, which is, so to speak, under counterintelligence data. Well, generally speaking, I mean, I know more or less, but I'm asking for some details. And that's one question. And next thing you know, I don't want to take any more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u7	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Marshal! We have decided to propose such a provision because certain procedures carried out by two services, namely the SKW and the ABW, have a slightly different character than those carried out by the services involved in the strict detection work. There are certain spheres of the state that counterintelligence is dealing with. This is a matter of state security when it comes to espionage, I mean, of course, prevention of espionage, as well as prevention of terrorism. That's two... And, of course, the question of reconciliation in defense... I mean, terrorism when it comes to, like, state defense installations. These are areas where certain processes last longer, where the service conducts extended procedures. Sometimes they don't end in criminal proceedings. The information function of the services is extremely important here, which I don't have to stress very strongly. Certain processes of preparation... concerning certain crimes or phenomena, it is simply proven They've been going on for an incredibly long time. And our services must be able to conduct such proceedings. As regards the scope of the data that these services may collect, this is exactly the same range as that provided for in the Law in relation to other services. These are the call log data, the location data of certain people and, of course, the subscription data. These are three groups of data, which are referred to in the bill discussed here. And here we are talking about the same data, only that it is about cases where certain processes are much slower and extremely dangerous from the point of view of the state, it is simply about counterintelligence. So that's all I can tell the marshal about this. And I would like to point out that I am not behind the Senate, Mr. Marshal. We take full responsibility for this bill. I would just like to explain that certain solutions are in line with those proposed by the Senate last term. The Senate, which, I see, has a certain personal continuation. A senate who approved certain solutions a few months ago. And right now I feel, at least I feel, criticized for these solutions. I don't think that's fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm just reminding you that the senators present are asking a question from a place that lasts no more than a minute. Please ask Senator Piotr Zientarski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u10	I'm gonna start like this right away by saying where you left off. Please indicate what solutions we are criticizing from the Senate's proposals at the moment. Because I didn't notice any. That's the first question. Second question. You have just answered Senator Augustine's question that the question of obtaining... is that there is identical judicial control over the collection of billing and locational data. There is only one minor issue: the parliamentary project requires more general information for the court. This is not the same information as the one that was in the case of our project. That's the second question... Please tell me if it's there. Because I think that in the parliamentary project it is more aggregated, i.e. the opinion is cumulative, more general. And the third question. On what grounds did you claim yesterday that the cataloging of the "categorisation" is based on the justification of the Constitutional Court, that is to say, the inclusion of provisions in a single law? These are my three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u11	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, I'm listing laws, solutions that have been criticised, which are identical to those in the Senate Act. Yesterday, the Senator rapporteur was attacked for regulations on military police, for example. They're exactly the same, identical, that's what I was talking about yesterday. We were attacked for predicting a follow-up check on the data collection. The Senate project envisaged a follow-up check. Today I hear from Senator Augustine that it may not be enough. And that's the same solution. Enough of that, we were attacked yesterday, the project was attacked for the fact that... [[My question...]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, I've been attacked. [[I asked not what was the subject of the question, Minister, but what was criticised. These are completely different issues.]] Mrs. Marshal, I have a huge request. Allow me to answer the question, please don't interrupt me. It's just rude. [[You didn't answer my question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u13	Okay, Minister, just a moment. Mr. Senator, the Minister will answer, and then you can ask, okay? But don't interrupt the Minister. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u14	Yesterday there was a criticism of the lack of a solution in this project to inform the person that she was being eavesdropped. The Senate project did not provide for this solution either, nor did it provide for it. These are the same solutions, and that's what I'm talking about. Is there anything else I can help you with, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u15	I asked three questions. As far as the last one is concerned, you're not playing fair again. You knew perfectly well that the Senate was dealing with this problem, only that it should be resolved by the Sejm, possibly by the Senate by means of an amendment. You know that, and now you're saying it was criticized. No, it was noticed, among others. in my speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u16	As I understand it, Mr. Senator, the Senate has prepared a project for the Seym to change him... [[You didn't answer my question.]] ...or possibly the Senate changed it by introducing an amendment. I understand the logic of thinking, Mr. Senator, but I can't agree with... [[But we're not criticizing that, Minister. I'm asking you, what exactly are we criticizing?]] You're asking me what you're criticizing? Well, Mr. Senator, I don't understand this question, really. Ask that question again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u17	No. You said that we were criticizing these decisions or those proposals we had made earlier. That's why I'm asking, what?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u18	But I said, I gave examples, for example, of the solutions for the MPs, for example, the solutions for follow-up control. [[But no one criticized it, it was a question. About the follow-up...]] [[Culturally, let the man answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u19	Mr. Senator, as I understand it, the Minister has already answered this question. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I have the impression that I have answered this question.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry, but the Minister hasn't answered. My second question was whether, in fact, this follow-up check you were talking about was identical in the sense of not the control principle, but the details of the aggregated data. This one's more aggregated and hence my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u21	Perhaps, Senator, you have answered your own question. Those aren't exactly the same rules. I'm not saying they're identical laws, but I'm talking about certain mechanisms... [[Sir...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Mrs. Marshal, I can't... I'm sorry, we're all tired, we've been working long, we've been working since this morning. We need a little mutual respect to do this job.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator, I think the Minister answered the question... [[No, he didn't answer.]] So, please, you're gonna ask that question again or a similar question in the second round, okay? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[In writing, I'll give you a reply in writing.]] Quiet, please. Thank you, Minister. The question is Senator Piotr Florek. Mr. Senator, you're welcome. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Good morning. I missed you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I wasn't exactly a senator in my previous term. - You're I'm sure he knows. Therefore, I will not refer to what was in the previous project. But I believe that two important issues include this amendment, which has been stressed many times in this Chamber. First, of course, the issue of security, and second, the issue of freedom and privacy of each of us. As for security... Yesterday, for example, you mentioned mothers with children, threats, and the Prime Minister recently referred to hungry children, that they were in Poland... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, of course in these cases... When it comes to life and health, no one... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] ...of us there is no doubt that such operations must be undertaken. Now about the Constitutional Court ruling. I would like to ask whether the access of the police and services to online data is based on the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Because this access, of course, raises a lot of doubts. We are talking here about a follow-up check, which, in my opinion, is, of course, fiction. Because I don't believe that in a situation where there are millions of operations that will have to be checked, as a result of the report that has been submitted, the validity of the actions taken can be investigated. Therefore, the question is whether it was necessary to adopt these solutions or whether it was possible And you're all saying that anyway, in the near future there'll be an amendment for later. That's the first question. And then there's the second question. I have opinions on the projects here. I think it was also moved yesterday. The law on amending the Police Act, I have 7 opinions in front of me. Well, the way I look at those opinions... For example, the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office: The project does not contain provisions aimed at implementing European Union law. The draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws is not a draft law implementing EU law. And I could quote a few more of those opinions. For example, the Panoptykon Foundation, which says that, in the opinion of the Foundation, the project is incompatible with both EU law and the Constitution... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The next one I can quote, the Senate Legislative Office. And it's the same everywhere. Do these opinions matter? When we create a new law... Are they written, but we don't consider them? Because I understand that when we have conflicting opinions, the situation is quite different. But when we have clear opinions? I would like to see the Minister in this respect. He said the same thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u24	In a moment, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the questions addressed to the Minister to be within a minute, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. And I'm asking you to. The time for comments will be in the discussion. Each of your senators will be able to take part in the discussion. Those who have already taken part in it and have spoken for 10 minutes will still have the opportunity and opportunity to make their speech in the next 5 minutes. So, please, let's stick to the rules. I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u25	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Senate! As far as the second question is concerned, I was very much referring to it yesterday, and I really answered the exact same questions so that I did not feel obliged to answer them. As regards the first question, the Court pointed out that all data which collect services must be subject to scrutiny. He didn't indicate that telecommunications did, online didn't, mail did, or didn't. He considered that all location data relating to subscribers, as if the billings that the services are downloading, must be subject to scrutiny. So far, there have been two data in the Service Act and this dissipated competence in the Electronic Service Act. I'd like to point out... I was quoting a representative of the Panoptykon Foundation, who cannot be blamed for love for special services and for operational activities. But it was during the work of the Senate that she pointed out that it would be good if the data collected under the Electronic Service Act were treated exactly the same way, exactly the same as the telecommunications or postal data. ♪ We're gonna ♪ We have noticed, we have read the Court's judgment, we have ordered these provisions, and we therefore believe that it is necessary to treat these data exactly the same way, that is, to destroy Internet data as well. If this data disappears from this law, the service will still be able to download it, only that there will be no control over it. We believe that in order not to bring another action before the Court, these provisions should be Just leave it in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is asked by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I would also like to say, Minister, that the Senate is not fully recreated. I'm also... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Fortunately.]] ...a new senator and I have... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I am glad.]] It's an honor to be here for the first time. I would like to draw this line in the European directives. According to a European Commission report published in 2011, on the implementation of Directive 2006/24 by the Member States of the European Union, which is the result of a comparative analysis of 25 national reports... In this report it turned out that only three countries, Ireland, Malta and the United Kingdom, had no prior control over the provision of telecommunications data, and in three more countries, Poland, Latvia and Slovakia, there was no external control body. You are well aware that not only a lot of time has passed, but also a lot of changes in the world, the Internet, telecommunications, etc. It is rather the law that does not keep up, so all the more so should we respect what has already been included in the Directive in 2006. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what you have done on this matter in this bill and what you intend to do in the near future so that we can meet the requirements of these directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u28	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u29	Mrs. Senator, congratulations on being in the Senate. I'm very happy for you. Here's what I'm gonna tell you. I am pleased that you are reaching out to the 2006 directive, and I am pleased that we will be able to stand next to a country such as the United Kingdom. I believe that this is a well-established democracy whose solutions are right. We will have similar solutions, we will have follow-up control, and for the next, I hope, at least 8 years we will work on these solutions in a similar composition, as I wish you and I. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u30	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz a question. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u31	Minister, I'm glad to see you in the Seym for the first time. [[Voices from the hall: Not in the Seym.]] In the Senate... But that's not the point. Let me tell you this: I absolutely believe that the drafting of a law on the parliamentary path is flawed, but let us agree that this way we avoid certain procedures. Quickly about two specific things. I use the opinion of the Chief Attorney General. Please respond to two paragraphs: the December 2015 opinion. Namely, good lawyers, because in the end with the NRA, write: The solutions will lead to serious restrictions on the exercise by individuals of their constitutional rights and freedoms, in particular the right to privacy, confidentiality of correspondence and the principles of information autonomy. That's the first paragraph. I don't want to develop it because I want to fit in a minute. And two: under the provisions contained in the draft opinion, largely identical to the proposals of the Senate project, lawyers will be able to be Okay, here's the . subject to the most interfering operating measures: operational control and the acquisition of telecommunications data. Such a solution undermines constitutional rights and freedoms, in particular the right of defence, with which the existence of trust is inextricably linked between the lawyer providing legal assistance and its principal. That's all I'm going to quote from this extensive opinion, which isn't really interesting enough for you guys. I beg you to answer the question of whether lawyers rightly write that their rights, and thus our citizens, are at risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u32	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u33	Senator! High Senate! Dear Senator, I'm glad to see you, too. And let me tell you this: this law does not introduce a millimeter of new rules giving authority to the services. The rules that have been in place for the last eight years have not said anything about the rights of lawyers and for example. Defendant secrecy. This law introduces very important restrictions here. If the services, for example, use operational control, acquire material that is a conversation between the lawyer and the person he represents in the court that he defends. I mean, here's the protector's secret. They'll have to destroy it immediately. If you believe that this provision is against the rights or the rights of attorney, please make an amendment to throw away this provision. But I would like to say that it was the Constitutional Tribunal that ordered this provision to be introduced, I repeat: this is what the Constitutional Tribunal ordered. There haven't been any such solutions in the last eight years, Senator. I don't know if the attorney's board has been sending you some analysis for the last eight years, but I don't think she's in any way concerned that their secret isn't being protected at all... in any way. Any law that affects operational control, which affects operational work, obviously interferes with civil liberties and freedoms. Of course it is, sir. I agree with the senator. But in order to remain safe, this interference... the right to privacy must be limited. It's obvious. Every wiretap interferes with civil liberties and the right to privacy It's obvious. But that doesn't mean that the service can't use these wirets. We restrict these powers. We also say that when secrets appear, we must, in accordance with the judgment, introduce a procedure and we are introducing these procedures. And one more thing, Mr. Senator. I agree with you on one point that this should be a government project. I absolutely agree that the parliamentary project is a prosthetic project. Of course he's a prosthetic, except it was the previous government that had time to prepare the project. That government didn't have time. The responsibility was on the side of the Civic Platform, Mr. Senator, let's be honest. [[I have to correct.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u34	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u35	Minister, I would like you to kindly point out that this is not an opinion addressed to me, this is an opinion addressed to the Marshal of the Sejm, Mr. Marshal of Kuchciński. That's one thing. Secondly, let me remind you that you have been ruling for several months now. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Two.]] If the deadline obliges you, you could have done it. But I do not want to speak because this is not a debate. I think you're... After all, we realize that at the moment we are being heard by lawyers, the lawyers who issued these opinions. You said it wasn't a threat, they said it was a threat. In a word... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I will refer to this, Mr. Senator.]] Please refer to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u36	Mr. Senator, let me refer to it this way. Please indicate a provision that makes the legal environment worse: it makes it worse than the laws that are in force. Please indicate such a provision, then I will immediately refer to it and of course I'll comment on that. If you're right, I'll bury my head in ashes. But there's no such rule in this bill, there's no rule, there's just no rule. And as for the two months mentioned, Mr. Senator, I'll say yes. Mrs. Beata Szydło's government was founded on November 16th, if I remember correctly. I was nominated on November 18th. On December 1, we started work. On December 23rd, the project appeared in the Seym... December 23rd. He was immediately subjected to severe criticism, total criticism of the Surveillance Act. That is obviously not true. It's not a surveillance bill, it's a police act. You can't play on such emotions! And you're saying we had two months to get the government to work? 30 July 2014 The Court has taken a decision. Was there any government project in this area created in the government of Donald Tusk or Eve Kopacz? No, so don't criticize us for that. We're responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz a question. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u38	Minister, how many cases can you then qualify as spy cases as terrorism cases are under investigation? How much?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u39	Mr. Marshal, I can't answer that question. [[Why?]] Scope of counter-intelligence activities It's a secret matter. I'm not able to answer your question about how many counterintelligence cases are handled by SKW or the Home Office. Even if I knew that number, I wouldn't answer you. It's all about responsibility. It's all about responsibility. [[I understand, Minister, but that's why we've filed a motion for secrecy. The point was to be able to ask you questions that...]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. Marshal, don't mess with these things. There'd have to be 100 people sitting here... There is no legal title for such information to be provided at a reserved meeting. That's top secret information. Here's what I'm going to tell you: I don't think the SES committee has ever gotten any information on how many of these things there are. Like I say, I think maybe I'm wrong. These are top secret sittings, in rooms for this purpose, prepared. Mr. Marshal, it's not my bad will.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask questions which are relevant to the matter of this law. Please also make sure that the questions do not last more than a minute. The question is Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u41	Thank you very much. One sentence. This important bill was probably in that thick file that Prime Minister Szydło had in the debate. You should've just looked there, and probably faster to... And, uh, back to the question... [[Such serious people...]] [[It's so mean.]] [[This insult really is pathetic.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u42	Mr. Senator, emotions are growing unnecessarily. Please limit yourself to asking questions. Please avoid such comments. The Minister explained just now that immediately after his appointment he had put this bill under discussion. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: We took care of the work immediately.]] You've taken care of your work. After all, the Minister explained it very carefully, he gave the dates. I think you all realized it couldn't be any faster. Let us avoid malice, for these emotions are really unnecessary. Let's debate. The next day, the second day we are debating the first item on our agenda. I ask you to ask me a question, and the Minister will answer the question. The next senators are enrolled in the question. I'm asking you a question, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u43	Let me explain. One sentence, let me... That wasn't mean. That sentence did not offend the Minister in any way. I will actually repeat the question I asked the Senator of the rapporteur, but I did not get an answer. It concerns art. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 12 concerning the obligations of telecommunications operators, they are to provide technical and organisational conditions enabling the police to carry out operational controls at their own expense. Such content is now broken down into two paragraphs: paragraph. 12 and paragraph 12. 12a. I'm not gonna tell you the full story... Perhaps the Minister heard that question yesterday. Large providers of telecommunications services are to do so, i.e. provide technical and organisational conditions, as I said, at their own expense, and small operators, micro-entrepreneurs or small entrepreneurs... In their case, it is not written that at its own expense, but in line with the infrastructure at its own disposal. Please explain these differences, because they raise doubts and actually... well, I won't comment. But that raises doubts. Some are to do what they say at their own expense, while others are not sure how. As far as small entities are concerned, it is written in line with the infrastructure at hand. This would mean that large companies are expected to do so to a wider extent. Explain this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u44	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u45	I'll explain. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! I will not refer to the first part of your speech, because it is simply intellectually dishonest. But I'm gonna go down to two in detail. This was the result of an amendment tabled by the opposition, adopted at the seymical stage. We felt that we could not impose exactly the same obligations on micro- and small entrepreneurs as to the need to provide infrastructure for operational control as for large entrepreneurs. We have conducted a public consultation, thanks to Minister Streżyńska, also with the business community of economic organisations, who have pointed out that it is not a problem to bear a fixed cost to a large entrepreneur, and in the case of a small businessman that can decide on its economic condition. All the more so because we're really talking here. Please believe me that there are operators, telecommunication operators or others who have never once in their history had an obligation to provide, in connection with operational control... Not once. So it is necessary to treat a large telecommunications entrepreneur, from whom I will say in quotes, they benefit by carrying out checks, and who must have some infrastructure, otherwise a small businessman, whom we would have invested in the appropriate infrastructure, and perhaps for 10 years we would not have used it. The provision in question is precisely a bow towards micro- and small entrepreneurs, so as not to charge them too much for their activities. And the government accepted and even welcomed the amendment tabled by the opposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u46	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Grażyna Sztark a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Me, too. [[I don't think the microphone's on.]] There, it's on. Excuse me. Minister, I wasn't supposed to ask you any more questions today, but because in answer to Mr. Ziientarski's question, you said that the Senate Act of the previous term was almost duplicated... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: No.]] ...that's what's really... Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Excuse me, ma'am.]] Maybe I'll just go straight... I'm talking about access to phone records and location data. I'll show you, among other things, what are the differences. Sensitive by virtue of the rights and freedoms of citizens. The Senate project allowed such data only and only if other means to identify, combat and detect crimes proved ineffective. The parliamentary project does not foresee such a restriction. In addition, the Senate project only dealt with crimes prosecuted by public prosecutions. The idea was not to violate civil rights and freedoms in matters not involving serious crimes. The parliamentary project allows the acquisition of Internet data in this mode. The Senate project did not foresee this either. Why, then, are these provisions included in the Act, if the acquisition of online data does not also constitute... does it not involve the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u48	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Izbo! Here's what I'm going to say: as I explained yesterday, if we hadn't introduced certain regulations, the services could have downloaded some data even in criminal cases. So let's not talk about some serious crime here. I would like to ask if illegal eavesdropping, illegal use of operational control is a serious crime. Yeah, I guess so. And she's not being chased by the public. It's being prosecuted on request. Is he a serious crime? In my opinion, it is, and it is inconclusive. That's the answer to the second part of your question. And now The first part. It's about subsidiarity. Yes, I agree with you: these solutions are different. And we're not hiding anything here. I was talking about it yesterday, and I'm saying it on every other forum where I speak about this bill. We take subsidiarity seriously, it's a final measure. How many final measures can there be? They can all be final. But if all are final, none will be final. You have entered a record that data collection is subsidised, but you do not remember that in the service laws subsidiarity is attributed to operational control. This is supposed to be the most interfering measure and is the most interfering in freedom and privacy, which is why we have given up this subsidiarity, because we know very well that often during the detection of crimes, during their prosecution, during the collection of evidence, it is precisely the first action that a police officer has to do, sometimes simply the first. And let's not kid ourselves... What? Excuse me, if we have someone who's offering someone a bribe over the phone, we need to figure out who this person is. This is the first information: downloading the subscriber's data. I'm not talking about other cases anymore, and I don't want to epat around here with all sorts of categorical things. It's just that it's often the first act. And sometimes the execution of data downloads makes it later it turns out that there is no need for operational controls. So this is the thing that makes control less applicable, and that's why we decided to do it. If everything is subsidised, nothing will be subsidised, Senator. [[Thank you very much, Mr... He's already said...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We have the right to disagree, we have the right to differ, Senator, but, of course, let's respect each other.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u50	Thank you, Minister. The question you ask is Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u51	Minister, it's actually a good thing, because I want to refer to your speech last night and that answer at all. Indeed, many opinions indicate that prevention, detection, prosecution of crime as the only criterion for action is insufficient. Everyone points to EU rules and the Court's judgment that this should apply to offences that are serious enough. Yesterday you said that there were no such categories, and because it didn't apply to offences, if I recall correctly, the wording was that this was a crime. But you're not a lawyer, and I'm not a lawyer, so I'm based on the opinion of a lawyer who said that you could find, and without any difficulty, a distinction or a category of major crimes that, in law school, are called a crime, which concerns what is at risk of being punished for a minimum of three years in prison. Why haven't you reached this category? Because the intention, as I understand it, was not to apply these techniques, this law, e.g. to offences, so I understand it so that also for very minor crimes, and yet they are included here. Why didn't you take advantage of this opportunity?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u52	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I just answered that question, gave an example of illegal eavesdropping, use of control. This is an extremely serious crime. Here's what I'm going to tell you: in my opinion, all crimes are serious. All of them, all of them, all of these crimes are serious. I know that there is such an assessment of you, I have heard of it, but I would also like to say that the definition of serious crimes did not provide for the Senate project in the last term either. And that's also what connects these two projects, and you didn't offer it, either, and you're pointing it out to us. [[But we were also criticized...]] Excuse me? [[But we were also criticized for it.]] Not for that. Not for that, Mr. Senator. Here's what I'm going to say: the services have their catalog defined, he's more precise than he's ever been. In this regard, the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment is complied with by that law. Anyway, Mr. Senator, let's remember the sentence. The Court challenged certain provisions I repeat: he contested the claim that they were non-constitutional. All these regulations have been corrected, and I hope that it will satisfy... that the sentence will be fulfilled, which will make the rules on services constitutional. This recipe... The Polish Constitutional Tribunal did not put a dam here and did not say that there must be more serious and minor crimes. He didn't bet... Then let's be honest. There are indeed votes, there are different opinions in this area, but we believe that it will be appropriate to treat it this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u54	Thank you, Minister. Please ask Senator Andrzej Stanisławek a question. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u55	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to ask you two questions. The first question is, in your opinion, will this law improve our security, state security, especially in times of increased terrorist threat, which we fear will, however, increase in Poland? And the second question I'm asking is, seeing your high level of competence, although the question is difficult. In your opinion, is the current law, which we want to vote on, against the background of the laws of the European Union, more restrictive, restricts our civil rights, or regulates these issues in a similar way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u56	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, In my view, the law is in the European average, such are European standards that are not fundamentally different... With regard to the length of operational control, whether it can be used or generally possible to carry out certain activities, there are certain European standards. And this is where the senator used to quote them. Some countries, like the UK, have similar data collection and follow-up arrangements. Of course, Europe is diverse, there is no single stand for operational control solutions. Some countries France, for example, has an independent institution that is only used to give approval and control to services. But there is also a movement in Europe that is now facing threats, actually threats. Because here it is already possible to talk about it in the plural. It liberalizes the rules, i.e. it introduces much more opportunities for services, especially as regards the detection of terrorist offences. This is a trend that is already, you can say, permanent, and there are already voices that these services must be increasingly competent. As far as our security is concerned, I will say this: this law theoretically and practically limits the powers of the services, but limits them not in such a way as to prevent them from doing effective work. These effective actions will be carried out. This law introduces more social and judicial control over the activities of secret services. In fact, if this law is applied well, I think it will, on the one hand, make Poland safe and, on the other hand, civil liberties will be better respected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u58	Thank you very much, Minister. And Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u59	Thank you very much. If that's okay, I'm gonna go to the Minister's previous answer first, and then I'm gonna ask one more question, because I didn't want to interrupt when there were any more questions. Minister, I don't think we understand each other at all. You were just referring to me as a follow-up check, but I was clearly referring to a prior check. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: In the UK, a follow-up.]] Yes. I'm gonna say the same thing I said before. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Successive control in the UK.]] Unfortunately, this report stated that only in three countries, Ireland, Malta, the UK, there was no prior control over the provision of telecommunications data... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: So the successor...]] ...and in three more, in Poland, Latvia and Slovakia, there was no external audit body. In all other countries of the European Union The 2011 report called for 24 States to audit either the court or the prosecutor's office or an independent administrative body. And, of course, we can differ in our views. Neither are we in favour of the fact that in various exceptional, very important cases there is no need for immediate response from the services. It's not about that at all. The idea is that the citizen should be protected from interference in his privacy, especially in situations that relate not to telecommunications data, but to the Internet. That's à speaking of the previous question. I also wanted to ask you, I don't know, maybe you'll refuse to answer, I don't know what's reserved... There is talk of this constant link, about the possibility of tracking online data on an ongoing basis without the presence of an employee of these... What's it called? Distributors... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Operators.]] ...anything... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Operators.]] That's right, the operators. Thank you very much. Please explain exactly what this is all about, whether it's true or not. Because it is said that you can observe for a long time, e.g. 24 hours a day to track people's activities online. Is it possible or isn't it possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u60	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, I've explained it many times, but I'll say it again. Let's not use the term rigid link, because there is no such term... [[I'm sorry, I said a fixed link.]] Is the fixed link because there is no such term either. It's the principle of teletransmission of data. Well, we live in the 21st century. We could say, "Okay, so we're gonna carry magazines on paper and we're gonna bring them in. Systems, which already operate in the services and concern e.g. telecommunications data... There's a way to teletransmitter phone records to the service. And for the last eight years of service, they've been getting information on this road. What's she giving? It gives speed, above all speed, i.e. This data is obtained quickly. And that's important from the service point of view. Criminals have it in themselves, that sometimes they commit certain crimes, e.g. Friday night, when the offices are closed. We can't explain to them that they shouldn't do this. Really. And we need the data immediately. But I'll calm the senator down. That's where we're talking about some kind of agreement. There is no agreement that would allow such action as you say. This was mentioned by Director Bienkowski, who appeared at the committee meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, these systems, if they are... This teletransmission is absolutely accountable on both sides: on the service side, where records are kept, in which you cannot interfere, because you will know who when and why you reached for the data, and on the operator side, because there is a black box that says that such a service has reached for such and such data. And that data has to be consistent with the records. Courts can, for example, To reach for it as part of a checkup and see if the servants are writing one thing and doing the other, compare it. And I'm gonna reassure you that there's really no matrix phenomenon here that someone's gonna be in virtual reality moving, swimming and doing everything. Really, don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u62	Let me ask you one more question. You were talking about telecommunication data, and I was asking about the Internet. Is it possible to keep track of the person's activities in the field of mail, networks in the longer term? I'm talking about tracking all Internet activities, e.g. For 24 hours, somebody. That's what I'm asking. I'm not a member... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: They are different, Senator...]] Wait a minute. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Sorry.]] I'm not a member of the committee, so I didn't hear your explanation, and you didn't talk about it here, and that's why I'm asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I'm so sorry. There are various techniques and spy programs that can be bought in different places, even on the Internet, but I really don't know all their possibilities, I've never used such programs. And the servants... [[I was asking about the service, not...]] But you asked if there was a possibility of Internet surveillance 24 hours a day. [[But by the servants...]] Mrs. Senator, I am referring you to a bill that specifically indicates what information and in what situations the services can obtain. This is the location information, subscriber data and so-called. Internet traffic billing, e.g. sending e-mails to each other. That's what the bill says. And no additional data without the court's permission will be able to obtain. I remind you of the hundredth time. And I'm gonna say it again. In order for the services to know the content transmitted online, by telephone or by post, they must have the permission of the court. Even when it comes to the content of communication between a man and a machine, such as logging into a bank account, there must be a court's agreement to allow the services to know the content of such a message. [[You know very well that not only content is information, phone records are also very important intimate information.]] Of course the phone records are information, too, right? The services will be able to obtain e-mail records, for example, and follow-up checks will be carried out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u64	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Tomasz Grodzki's question, please. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, in Latin, the word "minister" means a servant, a servant. The Senate is the highest Chamber of the Polish Parliament. I have the impression that this discussion is getting a little barren, because the Minister clearly suggests that you will not give in to either the fist or any minor paragraph in terms of the shape of this bill, although we will probably make a number of amendments, I will not mention the motion to reject this law in its entirety. I would like to get a clear answer from the Minister whether the Minister is in the position that the shape of this legislation submitted to us in Parliament is the best and only acceptable and final. Is that so?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u66	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! I think, given the time we've had, given the situation we've got, and the threat that's hanging over us, there's no better project at the moment. And that is why I appeal to the High House to adopt this law, in the name of responsibility, without corrections, because there is no time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u68	Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u69	I'll go back to the question of downloading Internet data. You were talking about phone records. Does the information about the website, the information about the address of the website that someone will contact belong to this Internet data or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u70	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Marshal! I read you an article yesterday. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 5 of the Internet Data Act. Mr. Marshal, please don't make me read this again. It is a law on the provision of services by electronic means. Yesterday, I read this to you as an answer to one of the senators' questions. So that's very precisely specified in the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u72	Thank you very much. [[You don't want to answer that question. I asked you a specific question.]] The Minister has already answered that question. Yes? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Yes.]] Thank you very much. Senator Zbigniew Cichonia's question, please. Please, Mr. Senator. [[Minister...]] Mr. Senator, turn on the microphone. Do you have a card? [[No.]] Then please take the card and turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u73	Minister! The lawyer has long been involved in the use of illegal eavesdropping of attorneys' conversations with clients, even the subject of a conference. We have sent the materials from this conference to the relevant authorities. Unfortunately, it was the proverbial throwing peas against the wall, the Platform authorities did not react at that time. That is why I consider it a great deal of progress that the relevant provisions have now been introduced in this law, I am talking about the article. 15f, about the need to destroy materials obtained in violation of the principles of attorney-client privilege or the secret of confession, i.e. what is guaranteed, among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 178 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In turn, if there are the remarks of the attorneys we have heard about, then they are related to the fact that the lawyer believes that not only should the consequences of the violation of this mystery be eliminated, whether it is a lawyer or a confession, but it would also be positive and with a good sound to write directly that obtaining such information is unacceptable. I hope that in the future projects mentioned by the Minister, this will be drawn out in full regulation in front of parentheses and exposed. I think then the barrister's community will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u74	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u75	Mr. Senator, I know what a restraining order means. If the intentional application of the control is used to obtain the prohibition of evidence, no court will give its consent. But situations can happen. And I understand that that's what we're talking about. When a person is eavesdropped e.g. He's setting up a lawyer to protect her, and they're on the phone. Then we're talking about immediate destruction of these materials. There are situations that can't be predicted. I can't imagine that the services, knowing the prohibition of evidence, would want and could use operational control knowingly towards a lawyer, a defense attorney, to take over correspondence. It's an absolute ban on evidence, there's no doubt about it. No court will give its consent, and I am sure that no head of service will make such a request, because it would indeed be illegal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u76	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Grażyna Sztark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u77	Minister! At first, I will say that I am a little concerned, because you answered Senator Grodzki's question that this law is final, and during the sitting of our committee you promised Professor Severinski that knowing that this law has some flaws, you will proceed to work on the amendment of this law. Now I'm gonna come to the question. I mean operational control, of course with the court's consent, because here are the differences between our senate project, the previous law and the present one. It will also be subject to the acquisition and preservation of data contained in IT data carriers, IT systems and IT systems. The Senate project did not include this and does not constitute the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. That's why the next question... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I would like to ask my colleagues to hand over this senate project to me, I just want to read something to you, Senator.]] Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I understand that you have already asked a question. I know what to say. I just want to use the source document.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u78	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Senator! Here's what I'm going to say: this senate project has more operational control than ours, one point, a little differently constructed, but it executes the judgment of the Court, which ordered it to catalog. I will remind you that the current record is extremely broad and basically open. Our project introduces a closed catalogue, which is smaller by one point than the one from the Senate project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u80	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u81	Minister, we have a week left until the deadline set by the Constitutional Tribunal. We are practically in a zero-one situation right now: either we adopt this law without changes and it will enter into force on time, or we will talk about changes for a long time and there will be a danger that this law will not be adopted in time. Please provide some concrete examples The best of those. more appalling, so that they can reach society, and perhaps also to us, our awareness of what threatens not to approve this law in due time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u82	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! Thank you for that question, even though the answer may be yes, only black. The worst scenario that could be, the most horrible crime scene or the sensational film, would arise if it turned out that suddenly our services do not have half the powers, they cannot use operational control. This would be great information for all our enemies and opponents, for those environments that are planning to organize themselves against Poland in some way. In today's world, with today's threats, if the servants didn't have that kind of authority, we'd be absolutely defenseless, just absolutely defenseless. Most of the crimes that the police are after... Not most of it, but a lot of things, especially those difficult, criminal ones, about organized crime. I'm no longer talking about corruption crime, which requires advanced means of operating. I'm not talking about counterintelligence things that are absolutely beyond any... So that would be tragic if it turned out that suddenly the service had no authority to use these methods.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u84	Thank you, Minister. I don't see any more... Senator Shark wants to ask you a question? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u85	Yes, Minister, because you didn't answer me... Is it because you committed yourself to Professor Sewerinski at the committee meeting that you will be working on improving this project... Is that, as you have said here, this is the final project and there will be no change, will we still be working on this project?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u86	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, I said that if there were problems in the implementation, if it turned out that the follow-up control was inefficient, then we would be working. I would like to remind you that the government is working on the principles of an anti-terrorist law that will treat a similar matter, which will change some laws. And there will be an opportunity... If there are shortcomings, possibly shortcomings, if practice shows that something needs to be changed, then we will work on it. We are open to all suggestions that will make privacy better protected and at the same time national security will be better supervised. [[You're an excellent politician. I didn't get an answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u89	Minister, can Internet data be separated from content? They're probably in the package. Can Internet data, address data, etc., be separated from content? That's the first question. The second question concerns the question of finding information from representatives of particularly sensitive professions, even from lawyers. Hasn't an additional security element been introduced that when you encounter, for example. For attorney-client privilege, that's the D.A.'s decision? Yes or no? It's not the officer who makes the decision. It's the D.A.'s opinion that this data... This information is passed on to the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Miss Marshal! Let's separate two things from attorney-client privilege. These are two different things. Defender's secret is destroyed immediately, and attorney-client privilege, which is subject to a relative ban, can be used in some situations as well as journalistic or doctor-patient secrecy. And then, through the Attorney General, the district court decides whether it can be used in proceedings, whether the service must, however, destroy this data, the information obtained. That's what the bill says. And separating content from data... I'm not an IT guy, but I'm gonna say one thing. Suppose you can't separate the content from the data. Then, if the content cannot be separated from the data, The court's approval will be necessary to obtain these packages. I, of course, do not know the detailed technical solutions, but there is no way that any content, whether Internet or postal, will be collected by the services uncontrolled by the court.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u92	Thank you, Minister. Senator Adam Gawada.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u93	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Senate! When I listen to the questions asked by the senators of today's opposition, I have the overwhelming impression that the fundamental purpose of the law on amending the Police Act has not been understood. After all, the purpose of this law is to adopt it in the short term, which is the foundation of our security. And the Minister just now, but not only at this moment, because yesterday, too, he strongly emphasized the consequences... But I have a question. In the current situation of threats to organised crime, terrorism, this crime, which today is often observed by us in various situations, with so-called, I will say again, set-ups, etc., without the prevention referred to in this law, without the possibility of acting with different types of online instruments, is it possible to function properly with the services? What would be the effectiveness of the police without such rapid action as the Minister and today, and yesterday he was here to tell you?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u94	Thank you, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, Let me disagree with you here. This isn't about prevention. There's no prevention here. Let me put it this way: there is no and there has never been an operation for prevention purposes. These are completely different actions of the police or other law enforcement authorities or to ensure security. So this is not about prevention, but it is about prosecuting crimes, hard crimes, which are very often committed in a completely different way, because crime is also evolving. Ladies and gentlemen, people who once robbed the canaries in Pruszków or Volomin, chased the trucks, robbed the trucks, now put on white shirts, set up a number of companies and send each other invoices, extorting VAT. They don't have to get their hands dirty anymore. Of course, extortion of VAT is a less severe crime, but prosecuting such crimes, chains of various companies that pass to each other quickly Economic transactions without the use of advanced operating techniques are not possible. These are obvious things. Let me stress once again: we must adopt this law, otherwise on 7 February we will be without eyes, without ears and we will suffer huge losses, including economics.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u96	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you so much for answering all your questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Piotr Wach. Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal. I would remind you that those senators who speak for the first time in the debate have 10 minutes to speak. Those countries that sign up for the second time have five minutes to speak. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High... I'm sorry. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill at issue is very important, and it's not just because it gives the tools to the police, the services. But apart from the fact that it is important, it is also a law in which one must weigh what the servants want and protect the citizens and their privacy. This is also very important, because it is not only about constitutional provisions, but also about international law. So you have to weigh it. It seems to me that this new law was written either by the service or under the dictation of the service. Therefore, all these comments which were made were in principle not taken into account. This is not because the Minister does not realize that it is simply necessary to weigh this, because such a law affects civil rights, as well as the secrecy of correspondence, the confidentiality of online traffic, but precisely because this is above all the perspective of the services and there is an interest in the services. I can understand that, and I understand that, but I don't agree. What were the comments made by the institutions? After all, these comments, very serious, were made by serious institutions. And these comments are also very serious. Analysis, opinion of the Parliamentary Office. Conclusion... Because only conclusions and summaries will I read. Conclusion: The subject matter of the parliamentary draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws falls within the scope of European Union law; the proposal is contrary to European Union law to the extent set out in point 3 of this Opinion. Another legal opinion The National Chamber of Legal Counsels: not only does the proposed regulation not comply with the democratic standards set out in the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, but it is at least questionable from the point of view of EU law and the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union; for these reasons, we are negative about the draft as it stands. Opinion of the General Bar Council: the proposed law will lead to serious restrictions on the exercise of constitutional rights and freedoms by individuals, in particular the right to privacy, confidentiality of correspondence and the principles of information autonomy. Another ombudsman: I believe that amending the Police Act could put personal rights and freedoms at risk. The Panoptykon Foundation is the same. But it can be said that this is just an organization that deals with civil rights, like the Ombudsman, so their perspective is completely different, on the other hand. Yeah, but the others? And the resolution of the Digital Affairs Council, which is the advisory and opinion body in front of the Minister responsible for IT, is the government body? That opinion is definitely negative, too. I won't read it, but you can reach out to it and get to know it. Government body. This whole opinion is negative. There's no indication of anything positive. And I don't think that's an extreme opinion. Government body. In addition, it concerns the acquisition of online data, i.e. the part of the law relating to the Internet, the part which was attached to the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Because the Constitutional Court's ruling didn't deal with the Internet. He pointed it out in the explanatory note, but pretty general. So the question is, why is there an Internet in this law? Internet issues and data acquisition from the Internet, as well as surveillance that may be on the Internet, but may also be necessary for services, should be included in a separate law. There's such a speciality that it shouldn't be housed in phone records, correspondence checks and obtaining data from written and other correspondence. After all, it is now such an extensive electronic system, an Internet system. We heard a Senator from the PiS yesterday who described the situation. Clouds, clouds, data packages, etc. This is the matter for a separate bill. And the question is: why do you join this law, that is, the necessary enforcement of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, to join the Internet? The Minister didn't explain it. The lack of response makes me make an amendment that removes Internet issues from this law. The matter of the Internet is not the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the seventh deadline is over, but we all know that the Senate is very busy, we worked on Christmas Eve, we worked on New Year's Eve. So now we can work too... [[Voices from the hall: Sure.]] ...in emergency mode. We're about to have a law on the D.A.'s office... [[Mr. Marshal, please proceed...]] Okay, I'm almost done. Two more sentences. Well, about the attorney-client privilege... [[Voice from the room: How much can this be explained?]] ...the officer doesn't destroy the materials It's written in this law. If, I'd say, that's the kind of secret he'd come across. It was the Minister who explained it to me just now. The decision... The officer passes it on to the prosecutor, the prosecutor makes a decision, then the court, etc. So it's going through the D.A. Today we're going to have this very urgent law on the D.A.'s office. Very urgent? Or what? Because the seventh is over, and the bill has to be passed? Tonight the Sejm passed a law on the prosecution, today this law comes to the Senate and we will probably vote on it today. [[Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.]] There's a rule in the D.A.'s Act that the Attorney General may have access to all the information from the D.A.'s evidence. [[Mr. Marshal, you're welcome to leave.]] It's a great transition, a great opportunity... These laws are connected here. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal, and I apologize for your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u98	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Władysław Komarnicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u99	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senators! We are gathered today to review the law on amending the Police Act and some other laws. Unfortunately, the process of proceding this law, the way in which it was voted in the Sejm, failing to deal with the voice of experts, makes this law at least raises a lot of doubts, which we must consider today in this respectable group. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in the 21st century, we are slowly becoming an information society. The Internet is basically the most popular medium, and we have to agree with that. Thanks to him, all of us, including us in this room, are doing bank operations and a lot of other important things for us. Unfortunately, the Internet has also become a place of both economic and criminal crime. There is no doubt that we need to learn how to eliminate online crimes efficiently. At the same time, we cannot assume that every Internet user is suspicious and requires strict control. It is simply, Dear Senators, Mrs. Marshal, a simple surveillance that does not fall within the standards of the democratic state. Let me remind you that in the amended act the rules include not only contact details, but also e.g. information on the initiation, termination and extent of each use of the service provided by electronic means or information on the use by the customer of the services provided by electronic means. The question is, what does that mean? Whether it is every time you enter the internet, send a message, enter a password, check the website, and maybe also. social networking activity? The lack of precision in the records poses a danger that every citizen's movement on the Internet will be followed by the service. Many of my doubts, and perhaps the states, raise particular provisions in this law, I will mention, for example, an article. 20c. We read: the police can obtain data, hereinafter referred to as Internet data, and can process it without the knowledge and consent of the person concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, these few words can have quite an impact. There is a reference to online data, to the Act on the provision of services by electronic means, which means that all providers of online services, both directly and indirectly, are unfortunately to be subject to this unfortunate law. Publishers and owners of Internet portals, Internet vendors, auction portals, video portals, social media administrators or dating portals will be required to share information about their users. We don't know what the rules are. This is no longer stated in this amendment. Under the pretext of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, all citizens are simply being monitored. It's a situation that shouldn't have happened. And, by the way, we are dealing with a very interesting situation, when the rulers, when they are comfortable, do not comply with the Constitutional Tribunal's provisions, and when, under the pretext of implementing the Court's judgments, they can implement their programme, without hesitation. Unfortunately, I have to say this with regret They're doing it. For God's sake, where's the letter of the law? I would also like to raise some doubts that the marshal has reported to you, among others. Ombudsman. The project does not provide for rules specifying in detail the categories of entities to which operational and awareness-raising activities may be undertaken. This means full freedom of services in the application of operational control, limited only subject matter, without any subject-matter criteria. Isn't that what's bothering you? There are also serious doubts about control procedures for the provision of telecommunications, postal or online data. This review is to be carried out by the competent district court, which is to be consulted on the six-monthly reports submitted to the courts by the services in this respect. Such a state of affairs may result in such court-martials that they will not be able to deal with them at all. Look at the anomaly. In addition, the proposed rules do not meet the standards of the judgment of the European Union Court, which in 2014 considered that there should be a prior control of the collection of telecommunications data, specific provisions enabling the acquisition of online data to identify, prevent, combat, detect or consolidate evidence of criminal offences prosecuted from public prosecution. This violates the requirement to identify in detail the types of offences that could justify the use of those activities. The scope of the offences is too wide and, unfortunately, Member States do not meet this criterion. Finally, I would just like to point out that traditionally this government is trying to introduce a law without public consultation. I therefore hope that, here in the Higher House, we will have a substantive discussion on this law. And one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, before me, you spoke to Marshal Borusewicz and I absolutely sign under it. Opinions on the draft law on amending the Police Act, 7 serious opinions, from the general opinion of the Data Protection Officer to the opinion, I will no longer recall everyone, our Legal Office, the Office of the Senate Office, should alarm you. And finally, looking you in the eye, I want to say that I have been an entrepreneur for years and I have always listened... and I never said that I was right when my deputies or my engineers said, "Mr President, it's not like that." I'm proud to be here with you today, I've always wanted to be here for many years. But I'm terrified of being an asshole. And I'm gonna ask you... It's a shame we're not all here together today, many have left... I don't know, maybe they know very well that our requests are ineffective. Please... I'm ready to stay, I've got some shirts from the dry cleaners, I'm ready to stay and procedate moms in this. As long as it takes for us to have a clean conscience. Thank you very much, Marshal and your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u100	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska will speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u101	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! This is another law that's being introduced at such a rapid pace. And, of course, we are not happy about that, and this issue has already been addressed. But the pace should not justify the shortcomings in the bill discussed here. Of all the laws we've been working on lately, this one is actually quite urgent. And we should do it quickly. But now that we're doing something, let's do it right and take into account the opinions of the lawyers. I have heard here several times today from the Minister, that e.g. he has no operational orientation, etc. I'll be honest with you, I doubt that. I think he has a great orientation on this, he should have a much better orientation than we do when he offers us solutions. Nevertheless, if the Minister has no orientation and said that there is no orientation, and as several Senators of the PiS also said yesterday that he is aware of the shortcomings of the bill discussed here, then I have this request. I'm addressing my right side of the room here. At least the part that concerns the Internet has been removed, as Mr. Marshal Borusewicz intended. At present, some issues concerning Internet data are regulated by the USUDE, and this is actually better than in the present law. Let's stick with that solution, remove all that Internet stuff. This will allow us to reach some compromise and, after a while, we will probably have to deal with a law that regulates access to the content that is contained on the Internet, but also the protection of this content. I was also concerned that from the applicants, from the people who prepared this bill, and in the Minister's replies we had always heard opinions on one side, on the side of the services, on the side of security, on the side of the fight against crime. I remind you that the vast majority of our society are not criminals. Crime is a margin. There's also a part of the crime we'll never know about. But that doesn't mean we have to have access to all the data. And here we have such an extended approach to accessing private citizens' data. And that thinking not about protecting the citizen, his right to privacy, his right to intimacy, just thinking that we need something to prevent or combat, is inconclusive, because the losses are much greater than the benefits thus obtained. We didn't get any information here. And I think it would be a good idea to question them at a committee meeting. How many crimes have been detected due to thorough internet surveillance. But we've had situations, and here I draw your attention, highly disturbing. I don't trust the service because I remember the late '80s. Probably already, I hope, my trust will grow, but I will remind you of the recent situation with the wiretap, when we were dealing with a data leak just from the services that turned out to be leaked, so to speak, leaked. These were data that had already been leaked from the D.A.'s office, data in which there were addresses, private text messages, given with names: upstairs there was a name, and underneath there was, who and what he said. Some of these texts were completely private and completely unrelated to the case. This data has leaked, so we can expect it to continue. It has always been that this type of data was unfortunately leaked, because the security services are not and unfortunately will not. And let me remind you that a random text or accidental contact with any person involved in a case may cause your intimate data to be disclosed. And one more thing: this 2006 EU directive, please see how long ago it was. The Internet was completely different at the time, it wasn't that deep in yet... He hasn't talked so much about each and every one of us's privacy yet. Today is completely different, Poles at the moment use Facebook massly, then it was not. Today there is more and more data about us on the Internet, and please note that we are not even complying with this directive in 2006. And in this law, which comes after how many years there, these laws are still not followed. It's all about opinions, documents. There's no magic here. In conclusion, positive. First of all, as I would like to remind you, I support Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's request. Secondly, we will keep an eye on this, we Senators of the Civic Platform, and we will look forward to it. I'm addressing the ministry's staff here. I would say, in an urgent manner, that would change the law on the knee made, imperfect, or even defective, to a terrifying degree. We will expect you to present a bill that will protect the citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u102	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Voice from the room: And Mr. Marshal Borusewicz...]] Yes, I'm listening, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u103	Mrs. Marshal! We moved the discussion and the questions tonight because it was supposed to be the minister. Well, Minister Wąsik isn't here, so I'd like to ask the marshal to order a brief recess in order to ask the Minister to come to the O.R. This is disregard for the Senate. In addition to what I understand, the Minister will want to respond to the conclusions that are being discussed. What will he say if only the ministry officials are here?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u104	Mr. Marshal, I suggest we continue the discussion, and we'll see if the Minister can come to us because I think the Sejm is in session, so perhaps the Minister is in Parliament. But I suggest we continue the discussion, and in a moment, we give you the information, we find out when the Minister will be here. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u105	Mrs. Marshal, I agree with that, of course. If not the Minister, then someone of the rank must be another Deputy Minister, because that is the rule of operation of the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u106	Okay, then we'll figure it out, Mr. Marshal. Now, please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address a large part of my speech to the Minister. I hope that the Minister will review the record of our deliberations today and address them. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you gentlemen. I address my appeal to the Senators of Law and Justice To remove you from your memory, from the thought of something that the opposition senators are against this law or are against improving security in this country. It's not like that. I would like to say that we are deeply in favour of improving the safety of citizens in the country. But it cannot be that, in order to improve security, we expose citizens to surveillance, to taking away the elements of their freedom. I will give you the definition of the police state, although I would like to say immediately that I am not saying that Poland is a police state, but some elements are important that you, the Senators of Law and Justice, consider whether it is not worth... I mean what was presented here by Senator Piotr Ziientarski, Marshal of Borowski, Marshal of Borusewicz. We are not talking about rejecting this law, but about considering the possibility of supplementing, i.e. adopting amendments which in our opinion will not make the role of services in the field of security of Poles worse. What are they gonna do? They will protect Poles from what is called surveillance, gathering unnecessary information, etc. This is a very important element. Of course, there is no law that will protect Poles 100% from surveillance, but this law gives, so to speak, the green light to the surveillance of citizens, especially on the Internet. A police state is a country where a citizen has no means of defence against a state coercion apparatus or a State special service apparatus. Of course, it is not that this definition fully fits the Republic of Poland, but this law has such markings, introduces elements of the police state. The role of the service here is paramount to the citizen. As Senator Barbara Zdrojewska presented, in most countries there are institutions that ensure the security of the citizen in the field of surveillance. That's why, if you don't have bad goals, I'm reporting it to the Minister. This is our request: agree to these amendments. They won't harm this bill, they won't harm it in any way if you have pure intentions. As far as time is concerned, ♪ Like I said ♪ It must not be an indication; it must not cause bad laws. Where, as where, but in the Senate, in a House that should ensure the quality of the law, we should ensure the quality of this law, which properly gives instruments to the special services in general to fight crime and protects the citizen and his right not to monitor other elements that can be used in the course of proceedings. What I'm trying to say is that there's a construction of the state. Just look: The Constitutional Tribunal, we know what's going on; the special service... sorry, the civil service, although in a moment it will actually be special service; government media in the style of Russia Today. When we add elements such as the system related to the bill and the prosecution's case in a moment, one can ask: what better change is this for Poland and Poles? A country that is dangerous to the citizen. To confirm these words, I would like to say that there is a Freedom House foundation founded in 1945 by the president, so it is not some institution connected with the current Civic Platform authorities. And this foundation has been following the countries of the world since 1945, dividing them into three groups, which are defined as whether the state is free, partially free or non-free. It's a simple division of states. And for all the years since 1990, we've been there as a free country. However, I would like to say that this foundation has initiated proceedings to determine whether Poland still belongs to free countries. Well, this law discussed today will certainly have good opinions indicating that Poland should be transferred to another category. We have joined a group of countries where we will be examined whether we are a free country, like Angola, the Republic of Congo, Iran, Nigeria, Burma, Malaysia, Venezuela. Well, it's a very good company. If that's the case, Minister, Ladies and Gentlemen, the protection of Polish citizens, I am very sorry, but we should consider... That is why I appeal once again: we are not talking about rejecting this law, we are in favour of this law. An initiative that has not, for various reasons, been completed... We want this bill to be revised in line with the comments and observations made by the senators in this discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, if we add the construction of the state and if we take... Because there are people behind concrete actions, behind billings, behind people. We will take, for example, the bill, the bill on the prosecutor's office and everything that is going on about security matters, and, as a matter of fact, put Minister Ziobra, Minister Kaminski and Minister Wąsik here. Well, I want to say to the Poles: feel safe. In quotes, of course! You are creating a very good group that will take good care of your safety, so that no one in this country There will be no more killing... and something like that. [[In our country.]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Yes, in our country. [[It's a vision of the state...]] I would therefore like to ask once again to take into account those comments which will not break the law, but will give the citizen greater protection. I will no longer quote what often fell from this tribune and during the discussion, i.e. the seven evaluations or opinions. But I want to tell you... After all, as Senators of Law and Justice, you have said that you are listening to the public's opinions, to the voice of society, and I would like to say this to you: these institutions have made specific remarks without leaving a dry thread on this project. But like the Minister said, it can only be an opinion, we have ours. After the discussion in the Sejm, the Panoptykon Foundation added the most recent opinion and writes: "The control over access to telecommunications and internet data will be purely fictional according to it. Moreover, the law will significantly facilitate the use of Internet data, because between services and companies will be created so-called. It's a secure link. It wouldn't be such a problem in itself. And that's what I'm talking about. If there were mechanisms for real control over this data. However, this did not happen, so the risk of abuse, surveillance, etc. exists. Today's latest surveys of Polish public opinion show that from 68... four questions were asked, it turned out that from 68% to 78% Poles say that they do not agree to restrict freedom, even if the terrorist threat is to increase. Of course, I read it this way: in Poland so far there has not been such a terrorist threat, and therefore Poles see it this way. I personally do not fully agree with this and I believe that the Polish state, that our country should have instruments to protect against terrorist activities, but let us not go towards surveillance and creation of ACTA2, Internet surveillance, etc. Therefore, in conclusion, I would like to ask the Senators of Law and Justice and the Minister to agree to the amendments which were tabled by the Senators during this discussion. In our view, they will absolutely not make the bill worse. And finally, I would like to quote here Albert Einstein's words, who once said this: never go against your conscience, even if the state so request. I believe that you have doubts in your consciences that these amendments should not be tabled. And to paraphrase this saying of Einstein, I would like to say this: never go against your conscience, even if the president asks you to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz will speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm already performing with this phone again, Mrs. Marshal, not because it's some special prop we use in our daily lives, but there's this fear, the fear of citizens being constantly eavesdropped. I'm not so genetically burdened with this system... [[Actors from your theater perform with phones.]] Mrs. Marshal, this young friend is bothering me. I would like to ask you, rapporteur... [[Senator.]] You just said the bill wasn't ready. You said the bill wasn't ready, and it would have to be improved. Well, if you don't mind... [[But I'm sorry, Mr. Senator.]] I'm talking about history. I am, of course, one of the oldest Members here, but I am not so burdened... [[Senators.]] Senators. ...like Marshal Borusewicz, who was constantly eavesdropped, under surveillance. I was maybe a little less and maybe in different ranges. Nevertheless, I am a child of a soldier of the Home Army and Freedom and Independence, and these people have been eavesdropped and monitored all the time. In general, there's such a fear right now. That's what I feel when I talk to the senator and the voters. People put their phones down. That's what happened. I remember how the famous nail appeared in 2005 or 2006. Then the current minister Ziobro said this device was the nail to Mr. Lepper's coffin. These are not good customs, ladies and gentlemen. I can say it's some kind of vile thing that can touch us at any moment. I realize that probably, Minister, I'm not being eavesdropped, but when I talk to some businessman who's sometimes had trouble with the law, because it happens in business, there's such a fear. And it's not civilization. I must say, however, that this law, drawn up by Members, unfortunately, has its drawbacks, which I have already stressed in my question to the Minister, but I want them to be spoken in the debate as well. I am using the opinion of the Supreme Bar Council on a number of points. I'm just gonna name a few. Fear that the freedom of a citizen and the freedom of a defender may be threatened. The Minister answered my question. I think the people who are watching us were satisfied. I also thank you for being kind enough to admit that I am right that this road to which the bill leads is not the best. It is simply because, Senator rapporteur, there was no consultation, and then always such a bill has its drawbacks. And now I want to make it clear what our representatives of the Supreme Bar Association have said. That the solutions proposed in the parliamentary proposal will lead to serious restrictions on the exercise by individuals of their constitutional rights and freedoms, in particular the right to privacy and confidentiality of correspondence and the principles of information autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not what citizens who have no idea about the law are writing people who... as the Minister probably knows, the hardest thing is to pass the bar exam. I know something about it because my son is an outstanding lawyer. And the next sentence: under the provisions contained in the draft opinion, largely identical to the proposals of the Senate project Okay, here's what I'm saying. Lawyers will be able to be subject to operational control and to the acquisition of telecommunications data; such a solution undermines constitutional rights and freedoms. Well, Minister, I'm sorry, I'm not, as you know, a lawyer, but I'm a man who reads with understanding. It is important for politicians to read Shakespeare first and learn something before they start to deal seriously with civil matters. That's what it says, and I quote it. For example, it is now proposed to introduce a mechanism to ensure that police officers or other services decide whether the information obtained during operational operations is related to defence or attorney-client privilege. I can't imagine any neighborhood boy. And that's possible, because in such a project everything is possible and decided what a secret it is. There's still a few of these points here that are worth pointing to. And so: The project clearly indicates that, as part of the operational control, content containing data protected as a professional secret can be recorded as a lawyer, defender and journalist. The text of the project shows that persons obliged to protect defence and attorney-client privilege are not excluded from the operation of operational control regulations. Well, that's a very interesting opinion. I don't want to develop it because it's so much that it makes me feel weak. Those who prepared this project did not take this into account, but our senators took this into account. There are therefore various amendments made, Minister. I am aware that this bill is necessary. She's necessary, but the threat that exists in space... Perhaps difficult things are coming for Poland, but in my view this road is too fast. I would urge, given the words of all our colleagues, that the committee should consider very seriously the amendments made by the Senators of the Civic Platform. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] Oh! Mr. Marshal... Without my knowledge, you came here, but I'm glad to see you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u110	It's very nice to see you, too, Senator. Thank you for speaking. Speaking of which, Citizens' concerns about surveillance are what I recommend to you yesterday's article on the backstage portal24. about how under the Platform the police were supposed to eavesdrop not only on journalists, but also hack into their mailboxes. It's a bubbly thing. I hope it will be explained to the end. Now, Senator Wach. [[But you're saying that to me in what way? I don't read those papers, sir.]] [[The senator only reads Shakespeare.]] I recommend this article to you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your vote. This matter is everywhere, in all countries very controversial. It is also discussed in various international bodies. In the Council of Europe, in the Commission for Culture, Science, Education and Media, matters relating on the one hand to Internet freedom, on the other hand to security matters, on the other hand to State surveillance, and on the fourth side to journalistic freedom are among the most discussed and most researched, including by experts. Our reservations to this law, mine and our s, here I think about the Senators of the Civic Platform, were quite clearly articled here. I will briefly remind the group of these reservations because I do not want to repeat all this. First of all, extending it to the Internet. I think you have presented this well, Marshal Borusewicz, who has tabled amendments in this regard. He wasn't the only one talking about it; most people were talking about it, and I agree. I think these amendments are important, acceptable. The second group of objections concerned the limitation of judicial review in various respects, inter alia with regard to parliamentarians. This is a very important matter. I would say that Senator Infantry, who has also tabled amendments, was the most complementary. It seems like we should take it. Thirdly, our reservations are that the external opinions that this time were... Although this law is processed quickly, not in such a way that there is no opinion. These opinions are, but they have no legislative effect, which is why... These opinions have actually not been taken into account, but they have been, so in this respect, this debate, well, there is actually not much to be blamed for. So that I join the appeal to take account of the amendments and adopt this law, which is necessary, together with the amendments. The second part of my speech is that I would like to comment on some of the important issues that emerged in the discussion, as a justification for why this law should be adopted with certain reservations. I have a very critical relationship with this, and I'm about to explain why. I'm gonna start with Senator Pekkis's emergency speech, and that was his last speech yesterday. Mr Senator talked about the fact that at the moment, the Internet user is widely using the software available to a global company and this software actually allows access to a range of confidential data, sensitive data. How would I deal with that? I don't think it's as far gone as Senator Pekkis told, but it's actually true. I have also investigated this case, in particular with regard to the system which is insistently offered and carries the number 10. It is certainly the case that this software is used to test the configuration of the hardware used by the user and the legality of the programs installed on the computer. And as for the other charges, it could be discussed, I'm not sure they're right, and I wouldn't confirm... But I don't want to talk about the details, I just want to talk about the philosophy, in this case the philosophy I'm talking about. Well, the senator's statement was, if it's so bad, what do you care about when you pass this bill? I don't agree with that philosophy. It's not like someone's doing it wrong, and they're doing it legally. After all, we agree to install one or another program, which we are actually forced to do under a very long text... I don't agree with the philosophy that when someone does it wrong, we have the right to do it, too. You can't do that. The legislator may not accept such an assumption. Now, I'm gonna move on to the general issue. It keeps repeating itself here. This is actually the motto of the Minister's statement and a number of senators: the platform was wrong, so let's do even worse. I absolutely disagree with that, absolutely, neither with the first nor with the second part of that sentence. It is not certain that the Platform has always done wrong I don't agree with that. But even if that were the case, I do not agree that this should justify similar or even worse conduct. And that's where I'm gonna end. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Zientarski... [[I'm here about the corrigendum...]] Senator Pekkis wants to speak in corrigendum mode. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u113	I just want to make it right that I never said it was wrong and that we could do it, too. I didn't say that yesterday, Senator. And since you're saying I said that, I'd ask you to quote my words exactly. I didn't say it authorised us to do... Not much, I'll be honest with you that due to the external threats that exist today, the threats from the Islamic countries without a clear national identity... Because of these threats, I do not think that this is wrong. That's why I'm protesting. I don't think what I was talking about yesterday was wrong. If that's the way you feel about it, I'm the one who straightens it out. I don't think it's bad that we're being subjected to this... because it avoids external threats.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You're the minister, so a few words of résumé, as I'm speaking for the second time. Minister, you didn't answer my question, so I didn't ask any more. Excuse me, but I am returning to the matter of serious treatment of our House. We're responsible. What are we fighting for here, Minister? We've been really prepared for the discussion. We have made serious amendments that have indeed been well developed. And what's the fight for? I think it's just about... and we're having an extra session on Saturday. And I think the fight is just about keeping the Sejm out of it next week. Because that's all... Because we're ready to prepare... Anyway, there was an agreement that it wasn't perfected... What's going on here? Why, then... what's the problem in a situation like this? This is the only bill you've known from the very beginning that she's urgent. It was the only act of urgency. And you didn't go after her at first, you went after the others. And now you're saying it's too late. It's not too late, it's not too late. And you can refer in the Seym to our amendments. And here's the thing. You're an archaeologist, you're an expert in operations, but... I'm so sorry. You're a total layman of law. And you're starting to talk, for example. Something like cataloging it is to make different legal standards in one law. Minister, for God's sake, cataloging this is a list of legal standards, but not in a single law. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Why not?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, you see, well... And that's why Marshal Borusewicz said that since we're executing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal... You failed to refer to the Panoptycon, who at the meeting took the ball back and said that he absolutely did not say it in this respect... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I read...]] Well, you've read something completely different, which didn't concern the situation, of course, we remember perfectly. And that gave you the same impression as your answers to my questions. Sir, no. The situation is that you don't need to catalogue what you said in one... The term "catalog" has nothing to do with... And we've been saying it. I'm gonna make a good bill. Nothing's gonna happen. There's a bill on the provision of telecommunications services, there's a possibility... So far it's all worked out? It worked. And nothing will happen if we adopt a law without the Internet part, and that will be properly refined. Because it needs to be refined, okay? And it's necessary for state security, okay. But you have to do it right. That's what we're here for. We're a senate who improves a law that cares about the quality of the law, not about a bang. Or what? Because the Sejm doesn't want to get together, we're not supposed to accept the amendments? I'm the one asking, why are we going? Why are we going? A little respect for each other, a little respect for our House. That's one thing. Second line. You're talking about this... I asked what issues were in our initiative, we are now criticizing. We don't criticize any of them. But we really were talking ourselves, Minister, about the need to introduce, in the Sejm, after a deep analysis, issues concerning the information of the individual about the fact of downloading data. We don't... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: You have not corrected.]] Because the situation was that there weren't any precise proposals yet, for example... Excuse me, it's getting... We've noticed the problem. If it had come back to us, if it hadn't been in the Seym, we'd have fixed it. We were just initiating, just initiating. There wasn't even a situation... Our representative could not attend the Parliamentary committees, because normally this activity leads to our initiatives... Anyway, look in the transcript, we talked about it. And we thought it would be... And we have this amendment. We have this amendment. Why not take it? Why not solve the subsidiarity problem that all opinions are talking about? Why, since it's unconstitutional, I'm asking. Why not accept the amendment on transitional provisions... [[Mr. Senator, let me remind you...]] ...that lead to this... [[...that you're taking the floor the second time at this point, which means you've got five minutes.]] Okay, I'm almost done. [[Thank you.]] These transitional provisions lead us to apply a non-constitutional law, yes, of course, i.e. the existing rules that are losing effect. Well, Minister, why don't you fix it? And why not accept the amendment that Senator Shark was talking about? etc., etc. That's why we care... yeah, we do. We're not stalling. It came to us, we're prepared, we've prepared and... [[Mr. Senator, I'm talking about not dragging...]] ...and we're making a proposal. We therefore ask that these amendments be adopted in the name of the sense of responsibility for the state, for security, for respect for citizens and for global and European standards. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u116	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. I'll remind you that it's also a second time, which means you have a senator for five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u117	Mr. Marshal, thank you for letting me know, but I have a good memory. Ladies and gentlemen! Two things I'd like to bring up briefly. First case, state security, very important. Yesterday we tried to keep the deliberations secret so that we could get more information about some of the data that we claimed were proprietary, so that we wanted to get to them. The Minister said today that he couldn't actually say about this data anyway. 'Cause one of those questions came up. Because it's not proprietary data, it just requires access to information either secret or top secret. In turn, I do not know how many of us here have access to classified information, certainly a few people, to top secret probably the same. Therefore, because we do not have a special service committee, as is the case in the Sejm, in relation to this topic concerning In fact, in the Senate we are deprived of such control. And one might wonder whether something could be changed in this regard. And the second thing: freedom and privacy on the Internet. As for Internet data, it was a broad speech on this subject, and the Minister also replied that if they cannot be separated, they could not be used. All IT scientists say a little bit differently, namely that the data cannot be separated, which is actually either used or not used, and if you cannot, then this information can be obtained very little. Thus, in this situation, the use of such data would be actually very limited. And follow-up control, in my opinion, is fiction. The Minister said it was an improvement and that there was no control so far. We agree with this, there really was no control, and this data could be obtained online. But if we want to settle this, so that sometimes there is no abuse. Because we have our experience and we know how it can be with these abuses. And if we want some kind of control... Only that the control which has been introduced in this Act is a fictional control. So there's nothing to talk about at all, in a million or in how many millions of information that will be sent to the court every six months... And like I said yesterday, I don't know, maybe the Internet information about me is going to be in a position of 3 million or so, so it's going to be hard to figure out whether it was legitimate or not. So we're introducing something that's supposed to change something that's supposed to be in control, but we know in advance that it's no control, that actually this situation doesn't change anything. Therefore, I think that as far as Internet data is concerned, it is important for the security of the state, because there is also a lot of preventive, preventive information that is not fully regulated and requires a different approach. And that's why all these comments, all of our conclusions are being addressed here. It would be good for you to reflect on this so that there is a positive assessment and that any further consideration should be given to this. And if not, like the Minister and as you have already announced, we can certainly expect this amendment to happen quickly. The Minister said we'd be watching what it looks like. This observation will certainly lead to the conclusion that further changes will be needed in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. And Mr. Senator Blackbay. Also, it seems, for the second time, it has 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It'll be short. Mr. Marshal, who has given his opinion to Senator Wach in a non-regular manner, in my opinion... I would like to say two words about this. Mr. Marshal, our concern for this bill is not because we were doing wrong... You're 100% right that if this information checks out, it should be branded, convicted, etc. Our concern is for two reasons. It's about you two... I'm on my way here to see the marshal and the minister. We often hear something like this: since you've done wrong, we can do even worse. What I'm trying to say is, don't follow that philosophy. When representatives of the Soviet Union discussed with representatives of the United States, there was always an argument at the end: and you black people kill. Please reject this philosophy. If we've made so many mistakes, let's take the rule that history is the teacher of the future, Mr. Marshal. We simply say: learn from our mistakes as well. Not very good oversight of the services caused what Mr Marshal said in his irregular appearance, that there was insufficient supervision and that bad things were happening. And I hope that they will be explained. But that's no reason for you to do worse. We would like to ask you not to make these mistakes. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say that although a lot of bad things, as your marshal said, or as the press reports, were done during the Civic Platform, the Civic Platform has no propensity for special services, and the state is talking about most people under the sign of Law and Justice. Well, you like it, you love it. Former Vice-Procurator Engelking once said: Poles are a nation that needs to be eavesdropped all the time. He just didn't know he was being eavesdropped, so... Please bear in mind that we are saying all this in the care of citizens, not so as to reject this law. The point is that you learn from our mistakes and don't make those mistakes. And for you to agree, I repeat this once again, to what was the subject of this discussion, i.e. to adopt proposals for amendments in order to improve this law. And finally, Minister... I didn't even know you had such a good archaeological education. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: University of Warsaw.]] I would just like to say that you should consider, Minister, because this has been going on during your speech... Well, I have to say, whether you're offended or not. If you're offended, I say I'm sorry. I'd like to tell you something like that. Someone once said that laughter can sometimes be a science when it comes to making fun of people. I see there's a little cynicism in your uncontrollable laughter. And I'd like to ask you very much... This really isn't a ridiculous bill. And these aren't funny speeches. What Professor Wach said... It can be laughed at, only that someone like whom, but you don't like to express your disapproval in such a joyous way. You have the right to disapproval, but I would ask for a slightly higher level. You're in the Senate, not the bazaar. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u120	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. [[Take your hand out of your pocket.]] [[Who? Me?]] [[No, no...]] [[What, was I holding it, Mr. Senator?]] [[If you were holding it, yes.]] [[So what's this? What kind of comments are there to me?]] [[Why do you confess... how do you confess...]] [[Senator, leave that kind of attention to yourself. Okay?]] [[Okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I want to repeat some of my thesis because you weren't here before, and right now you're here, thank you for coming. As far as I'm concerned, genetically contaminated, I don't like the service. It's hard for me to like the servants, even though I know they're needed. I've been for a few years. Also in the Committee on Special Services, so I learned the services as an object of study and as an entity that he is working on. And maybe that's why I don't trust them. There is no such trust, like me, many, many citizens. Therefore, this type of legislation needs to be handled very carefully. I will tell you, and it is not the secret of the Committee on Special Services that I have witnessed how the services did not say everything, spoke only part of it, and even lied to Members. There's been a situation. So you certainly have to ask questions, and even if the answers to these questions are not complete or false, they prove something. We've asked you here to keep your deliberations secret so we can ask you a whole bunch of questions like this. Because the answers, even if they are not complete or unsatisfied, or miss the truth at all, are evidence of something, because such answers can also be interpreted. But I'm afraid that's the kind of question you couldn't ask. And we don't have a tool here to get deeper into the matter, we'd have to have a special services committee similar to the Sejm committee, and we don't have a committee like this, even though laws like this are coming to us. My basic reservation, apart from the fact that basically the opinions I quoted and the senators quoted, these 7 opinions, very critical... They're not considered at all. And the thing is, I'll start here from the end. The fact that the transitional provisions refer to the application of a law which has been challenged and the provisions of that law should end their lives on 7 February. But here the transitional rules say we're applying this law... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: But, Mr. Marshal...]] Well, yes, Minister, we can read. But this is a final matter, a final rule. However, there are also a number of comments which have not been taken into account. And we're worried, I'm worried that there's a good change going on here. In quotes, yes, in quotes. It is clear that this law is bound to a law which we do not have to adopt until 7 February, which today was passed in the Sejm and will come to the Senate. [[He's here.]] [[He's here, he's here.]] And it's very likely today will be... [[He's already in the Senate.]] [[He's here.]] ...that today this bill will be passed by the Senate, and it is a law on the prosecution. And I showed that there are places that create bridges between one law and the other. Because if sensitive data about attorney-client privilege... if an officer comes across it, it doesn't destroy it right away, but it's supposed to hand it over to the prosecutor. And the law on the prosecutor's office, which reached us today, provides for, introduces a provision whereby the prosecutor general, or minister Ziobro, will be able to simply review and determine, evaluate, review, to evaluate, but when reviewed, to evaluate, the content of conversations or Internet correspondence is also known. You can see that these two laws are closely linked here. We're gonna be working on that in a minute. . and probably critical remarks similar to those made with regard to the Police Act will be reported in relation to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Except we haven't had time to deal with those comments yet. Minister, I don't know why you should, when the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal has to be carried out by 7 February, attach this web part. After all, this is a separate, complicated matter. It should be a separate bill. You have to prepare a good bill, because of course, using only the old law, which provides... The 2012 Act simply does not agree with the possibilities that continue to develop on the Internet. I tabled an amendment removing the Internet from this law and I believe that it should be taken into account because, as I say, this is very complicated matter... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...and therefore there are concerns. It is not us who raise these concerns, it is you who, when entering the Internet into this law, cause these fears. So if there's nothing to worry about, cut out this part, and we'll all agree on that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u123	I have no custom, Mr. Marshal, dear colleagues, to repeat what I have said before, but I have said this without the presence of Minister Wąsik, so I will repeat it in his presence, because it is ordered by the savoir-vivre. Minister Wąsik wanted to talk yesterday about tens of thousands of wirets, tens of thousands of cases of access to Internet data. In order to be precise, because we have to be here, Minister, precise to obtain them, while I was serving as Minister of National Defence. I would like to remind you that at a time when you were the CBA's deputy head, these online access cases were proportionally more. I hope that at that time, as CBA Vice-President, you used methods identical to those used by the services of the Ministry of National Defence, i.e. access to online data was carried out under the Internet Service Act. I hope so. If it weren't, it would be against the law. This right still applies today and will continue to apply as long as the Senate does not approve the changes in this law, and as long as the President does not sign this, God forbid the bill passed by us. I would remind you of that so that this will be kept in mind, Minister, and that you will remember it. I also remind you of this because I believe that two elements of the law on the provision of services by Internet service providers are crucial and fundamental. That is, the principle of the application applies and the principle of the procedure applies, i.e. there must be a request for such data and it must be related to the conduct carried out, not as in the relevant article that we are currently investigating, which says that also in the case of prevention... For what is prevention other than prevention? It's a powerful concept of prevention, prevention, it actually opens up Pandora's can. In the concept of prevention, any service, even in good faith, can fit anything, but the victim will always be a citizen, I emphasize: there will always be a citizen. The State, Law and Justice, are now in the fifth order of submission of elements of the public sphere to the government in Poland. In the models of democracy that exist in the family of European countries and in the Euro-Atlantic civilization, not all that is social, is the state's big public sphere, which does not belong to government control. The government is only part of the public sphere. The State has already submitted to the institution of the Constitutional Tribunal. In fact, the State has already paralyzed this institution, which is the Constitutional Court, which was not subject to the government, simply because it did not want to be subject to the government. The State has led to media submission Okay, I'll mark it. Public, therefore, not government-owned, public domain-owned government, for the first time since 1989. The State subjected the civil service, which was autonomous to the government's decision and guaranteed institutional memory in Poland, the government and basically the interests of the political party. At the moment, you want to subdue the Internet to the services of force belonging to the state. You want to limit it. Maybe I said it too hard: you want to subdue your citizens' freedom on the Internet, you want to limit the area of freedom on the Internet. This is what we are dealing with today; this is what we are talking about today, and this is what we oppose. This is at least the way to understand the opposition and mine and my colleagues from the Civic Platform against this bill that we are proceeding today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u124	Thank you. Senator Rooster. For discussion or for... [[It's for discussion. This hypocrisy is beyond human boundaries.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear guests! I really wasn't going to speak, but this hypocrisy is already going through all limits. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the PO-PSL coalition that owns this country. Let's move on to the schedule and make really concrete arguments about what you were doing. Senator Klich is talking about television. [[Voice from the room: This is the wrong point.]] I remember a huge national tragedy in Smolensk, where I organized a train... After this huge tragedy in two days, gentlemen, you've taken over television. And remember what you really started to do. For eight years, you've exchanged the entire staff for PO-PSL servers and nobody's talked about it out loud. We were sitting here today... It's a shame you're not here, Marshal Karczewski. At the meetings of the PiS clubs he said: Gentlemen of the Senators, dialogue, we are of the Solidarity, we are Catholics, very calm... I wish he'd listen to what... Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what I'm reminded of? First term, 2005-2007, when there was my friend and colleague, Senator Niesiołowski. He, compared to you, gentlemen, was an angel, although he really used some kind of hate speech, aggression. But as I went out and said: Stefan, Stefan, you, the man of Solidarity, what are you doing? This is Senator Niesiołowski right away, Dear Sirs, quieting down. We're talking about the Court. Who started the war for the Court? On June 25th last year, when the polls indicated that you were going to suffer, Dear Lords, a total disaster. And thank God for what happened. That's what you wanted, gentlemen. I, Mr and Mrs Dear, did not protest as Senator Klich said. [[In corrigendum mode.]] Dear Sirs, what happened at the time? They were all in favor of, yeah, they weren't looking... And now, as Law and Justice normally begin to straighten things out, so that in Poland there is law and justice, and not agreements with the Owl, then, Dear Lords, we meet with huge protests. I think it's embarrassing. A frontal attack on the Minister when he actually presents the concept and, so to speak, on the argument of the defenses of the bill which the Court... which you have passed and which has returned to the Senate... Ladies and gentlemen, I really believe that under the rule of law and justice, we will return to normality. You've slowed down, Mr and Mrs... You want me to tell you what the deal was at the National Radio and Television Council? Whose representative was Mr. Dworak? Whose representative was Mr. Luft? Who was the president? [[It wasn't an activist.]] Wasn't that party representative, PO and PSL? There were party divisions, let's talk about it out loud. And if, ladies and gentlemen, you want to talk about the ownership of the state, then let's take all the agencies, ARMIR or other agencies. What's going on, Mr. and Mrs. Dear? [[It's from the PiS...]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't yell at the PiS. It hurts me yesterday when some people yelled, "Oh, the piss is coming!" And thanks to sleep. Lech Kaczyński went to his posts. I remember Torwar, where I actually performed with Marshal Borusewicz as a candidate for Law and Justice for Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, a little respect, also for the Law and Justice. A little respect. 'Cause, ladies and gentlemen, we sit still, we don't talk... But really, the truth has to be defended. Because "yes" is to be "yes," "no" is to be "no." Today, there is also screaming about religion in schools, screaming in the Seym... Those who... They barely came in. They're already trying to attack the Church. And that's gonna show up here, too. And then we'll see what the fight for Catholicism is going to be like. I, Dear Lords, say this: really, let us torch this war, let us look at our beloved homeland, not at the agreements. If there's a bandit, Minister, eavesdrop on him a thousand times. If someone kidnapped my grandson, you'd be eavesdropping on someone like that 2 million times. [[That's the point.]] [[But not an honest man.]] Who's listening to an honest citizen? Who was eavesdropping on journalists? Dear Mr. and Mrs. Senator Klich, who's been eavesdropping on journalists lately? It was the Civic Platform that was eavesdropping. Minister, Senator, as they say to you, uncomfortable things about how you ruled the MON, you cut yourself off like a saint. And you were all... I remember because I'm here for the fourth term. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, with great respect for the senators... Ladies and gentlemen, what have you been doing in your previous term of office for eight years? [[Nothing.]] Gentlemen, when we applied, what was said? That's where Senator Jurcewicz was sitting... They were talking about the PiS that we'd never get to power. Everything ours, that you cut out, even if it was best for the Republic of Poland. [[That's not true.]] Party directives were adopted and you voted. Ladies and gentlemen, really, let's all come to our senses. People of Solidarity, let's remember a little, because for this free homeland people gave blood, in Gdańsk Shipyard, in the mine of... Everyone's a hero today. [[Exactly.]] I remember those hero agents who sent the zoo on us. And today, all heroes. Respect for your beloved country... For this country, people gave their lives. And those demagogues from the fronts of the unity of the nation, of prons, let them remember. Because they perpetuated communism. [[Who are you talking about?]] I'm saying... You want to... I'm not gonna name names... Who am I talking about? Everybody knows. Ladies and gentlemen, you say the times of the Communists... [[Peterovich...]] Mr. Senator Zientarski, you know very well. You know exactly what I'm talking about. Peterovich? Ladies, yesterday you screamed, we're back to the commune! And who's taking representatives of the PZPR on the election list? It's a platform, not a piss! [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: What do you mean, no?]] Dear Mr and Mrs Dear, I ask you to come to your senses for the sake of your country, for the sake of the Republic. This isn't about political agreements. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u126	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klich in corrigendum mode. [[In corrigendum mode.]] But not polemics. [[No, no.]] Corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u127	In corrigendum mode. I don't have a card. I'm sorry. Now. In corrigendum mode. Senator Rooster wanted to use a rather complicated word called "hypocrisy." I feel like it's just because I don't understand what I'm talking about, just and exclusively. I wasn't talking about how the parties governed the state, but about the state's ownership of the public sphere, which has never belonged to you in 25 years. Yes? Mr. Senator, there's a huge literature I recommend you read. I can make you a bibliography like that. After this reading, you will not use the word "hypocrisy." [[Please.]] So that, Dear Staszku, if I may say so, because we like each other, I can give you a lecture like this, and I will also provide you with a bibliography. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u128	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borowski. [[I can do it.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Borusewicz. Excuse me, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u129	Thank you. Senator Rooster mentioned my name. I'd like to correct what he said. Well, Mr. Senator Rooster, in 2005 I ran with the support of the Platform and the PiS. I was running out of my... [[Yeah, it was the PO-PiS.]] ...the committee. Here in the Senate I received 99 votes in the vote for the marshal just because they supported me and the PiS, and the Platform. [[That's bravo.]] Please do not provide such unilateral information. I understand that it was a good thing for you to say, but don't tell me it's not true. Or didn't you know that? So I'm keeping you informed. That's a corrigendum. Besides, don't confuse the football stadium with the senate hall. There are other customs here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u130	That was no longer a corrigendum, Mr. Marshal. [[It got into Staszko...]] Senator Augustine. Voice in the discussion, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I wasn't going to speak, but because what I said yesterday is continuing, especially in this last speech by Senator Rooster... It is this specific pattern of argumentation that you always use whenever you want to make changes that are, in my opinion, dangerous to democratic governance in Poland: you point to the mistakes of your predecessors. And rightly, and well, and from this speaker there were ten times words in which no one denied that many things needed to be repaired. And right after that... What you use it for must raise a categoric objection. Senator Rooster encouraged us to apply unambiguous criteria: yes and no. There you go. We made a mistake with regard to the Constitutional Tribunal. You've sued this, and then, you don't know why, you've withdrawn it, but we've done it, you've filed a motion. And this error has been proven, but instead of correcting it, you have led to the fact that the Court will not be able to function. Yes or no? [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] You said... Senator Rooster just... [[He insulted us.]] ...he said you've filled your people with public positions. [[He was telling the truth.]] Yes? I'm sure that's what it's been like in a lot of cases, but... Now what are you doing? You change the Civil Service Act, you put up with competitions, you put up with the requirement of partylessness, you cast your people. Yes or no? [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] You said that, too, Mr. Senator. You filled your people with public television. Probably so, perhaps sometimes, although we will still sigh at the kind of defective pluralism that was. Because the state treats this flaw of ours in such a way that it is simply without any embarrassment that you cast only subordinates and favorable people. Yes or no? [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the same is true of me with this bill. Minister, I asked Mr Wójcik how it really was, why this bill did not pass. The answer was this: at the request of Mrs PiS, supported by other clubs, this law was stopped at committee level when the Platform was opposed. That's what it looked like. So please don't mislead me. Same test. Let's call it Senator Rooster's test. Let's apply this law. [[I won't.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, since the Minister says that he is open to future changes, that in part he agrees that this law could be better, then, well simpler, let us make amendments. We're gonna make it easy to make it. We've worked on Christmas Eve, we've worked on New Year's Eve, we'll work free Saturday, so what a problem. I understand that Senator Rooster at the meeting of his club is asking whether we are making amendments or not, he will answer yes, we are introducing the bill to be better, and he urges us to do so. [[I'm sure I'll say no.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u132	Thank you. Senator Rooster. [[It's not easy. You're a marshal, too.]] A voice in the discussion, I understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u133	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's just... Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I can't let anyone accuse me of lying as a man. I'll answer Senator Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you organized the transformations in the Republic of Poland, the overthrow of the totalitarian system. I didn't lie... You were at the Torwar when there was a conference of Law and Justice in 2005, when Mr Lech Kaczyński clearly supported you as a marshal of the Senate of the Republic. I know there was a PO-PiS back then. I do. But I didn't lie because Lech Kaczyński's sacred memory strongly supported you. And it's not a secret. When I perform here, I always say it was you, not Lech Wałęsa, and you organized strikes in Gdańsk Shipyard. And he won't deny it... And as far as Senator Klich's proposals are concerned, I'll take it. Mr. Senator, we fly planes, we drive trains... We'll discuss these matters. [[I'll bring you...]] As for the amendments, I'm sure I'll say no to Senator August. No, it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u134	Thank you. [[My name...]] Senator Augustine. It was about Senator Augustine. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Zientarski, Senator Kleina, Senator Borowski, Senator Piechota, Mr Marshal Borusewicz. The discussion is closed. I'm informing you that... Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Yes, Minister? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! I listened to this debate, I participated in it, I tried to answer all the questions. I also accept your comments about my person, about my education. There was a time when the head of the service was a historian, and the deputy was an archaeologist. It was Mr Bondaryk and Mr Białek at the ABW; you probably know those names. But that's by the way. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let me put it this way: someone here instructed me to behave in the Senate, because this is the Chamber of Reflection. If we want to behave decently, we must observe one thing, namely, we must speak the truth, Ladies and Gentlemen, and let us begin with that. First thing. This bill senack version of the previous term It was not adopted because Mr Wójcik, elected president of the subcommittee to deal with this issue in the Sejm, did not once convene a subcommittee meeting to deal with this law. We have a letter from Minister Biernacki in which Mr Wójcik is hysterically called upon to organise the work of the committee so that this bill can be passed. Second thing. Minister Klich, who has been directing military services for four years as Minister of National Defence and overseeing these services, is using untruth. The rules we are debating today do not limit anyone's freedom on the Internet in any way, they do not concern freedom on the Internet, and you know that very well. [[They're really, really limiting it.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] The rules we are discussing allow the execution of the judgment and allow the work of the services to be carried out, talking about the procedure for obtaining data. When you were... [[I didn't say a word about it. The sentence doesn't apply to that.]] Mrs. Marshal, you're welcome to... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u136	Excuse me, Minister. Gentlemen of the Senators, the discussion is over. Quiet, please. Let's hear the Minister. [[But you can't mislead the House, Mrs. Marshal.]] Mr. Senator, please be quiet. [[The voice from the room: He says what he wants...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u137	These rules limit only one thing: the powers of special services. And don't confuse the concepts. This bill is essential. She's not here just because the P.O. government hasn't done anything for 16 months, she hasn't done anything about it. Senator Fedorovich said... [[Oh, yeah, I was just...]] ...that the Supreme Bar is accusing the project... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Yeah, I'm listening.]] Thank you very much, Senator. [[I'm so sorry. Mr. Wójcik called to correct.]] Mr. Senator said that the Supreme Bar Council says that this project is unconstitutional. This may be the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is unconstitutional, because the Constitutional Tribunal has not challenged those provisions to which the Supreme Bar Council refers. [[He didn't doubt it?]] He didn't question it. Using such arguments is unfair. [[But these aren't my arguments, they're my counsel.]] Did I say you? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] [[Mr. Wójcik called to correct.]] [[Quiet, please, Senator.]] I understand a little of you as an opposition when it comes to certain matters, but you were eight years old to defend civil liberties freely, eight years old. How many times have you taken care of it? I respect a separate sentence, respect different views, and respect criticism, but I'm not able to understand the hysterical and false ripping of clothes when you gave up power two months ago and left the dead in the closet. And this bill is one of those corpses. This is something you should do, but you didn't. And I'm amazed, Mr. Marshal... I'm talking to you because I respect you very much. I know your resume, and I have personal respect for what you've done in your life. But I'm kind of appalled by what you said today. I don't agree with that at all. You were talking about secrets, about how we're gonna keep an eye on them. Mr. Marshal, where were you when Homeland Security was pulling out a laptop to the editor-in-chief of the weekly who wrote the negative lyrics for you? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I remember him screaming: this is my secret to this laptop. Where have you been? [[Voice from the room: That's history.]] Oh, is that all right? Let's not talk about the past. The history of a master's vitae est Someone said it today She's a teacher of life. Yes, sir. Mr. Marshal, this bill... [[Minister, less politics, more rhetoric.]] This law restricts the powers of services And it's merology, it's merology. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[And that's why citizens are storming.]] [[You make me laugh.]] Someone was talking about laughter today, and I'll tell you this: Minister, you were in charge of the services, and you found out about some of the regulations in place today. Because you didn't even know that your services supervised were downloading data from the Internet, you didn't know. [[Applause]] [[It's funny what you're saying.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will say this: I know that you are at a difficult time, that you are on the corner; I know that you must show that you are the alpha male of the opposition, not Mr. Petru, but really do it responsibly and do not use such social emotions for this because it is a bad time. I ask the Senate to accept this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, as legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held after the adjournment. I'm about to announce a recess, and now I'm asking your secretary to read the message. [[But, Mrs. Marshal, I would like to correct the Minister's statement.]] Mr. Senator, here's what I'm suggesting: a committee meeting is about to begin and there will be an opportunity for further discussion, we have already closed the discussion. So, please, Senator Secretary, I'm asking you to read the message. [[I'm sorry, but Mr Wójcik, who was cited here, claimed that...]] Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator, there is no Member here... [[But that's not true, because he said...]] Mr... Quiet, please. I ask the Senator rapporteur to read the message. [[Voice from the room: Secretary.]] Secretary, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, one hour after the adjournment in room 217, there will be a meeting of the Joint Committee on National Defence, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee on amendments tabled during the Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Police and certain other laws contained in Senate printing No 71. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u140	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess... [[Miss Marshal, corrigendum! Because it can't be like that.]] Mr. Senator, I'm declaring a recess until 13.10. The committee meeting will begin in an hour and you will be able to continue your discussion. Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 10 to 13 minutes 11]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u141	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats... Oh, there you are, gentlemen, so welcome, Mr. Secretary. High Senate, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: second reading of the draft resolution Annus Domini MMXVI - anniversary of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism and consider it as the fourth item of the agenda, after a point on the Law amending the Law If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Police Act and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 71 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the 3 joint committees, the Committee on National Defence, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, I would like to present the report of the committee in print No 71 Z. The committees at today's meeting discussed the proposals submitted in the course of a broad debate conducted yesterday, yesterday evening and today before noon, to the law amending the Police Act and some other laws. At today's meeting, two proposals were examined and passed: a motion for rejection by a group of senators, which did not receive a majority, and a second motion for adoption of a law without amendments, which received the support of the joint committees. Therefore, on behalf of the joint committees, I would recommend that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Of course, minority proposals were also submitted by the senators, which will be presented by the senators: Senator Grażyna Sztark and Senator Libicki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u143	I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I kindly inform you that a minority of committees support the introduction of amendments and ask for them to be adopted and voted out. These amendments have been properly grouped according to the scope of the cases. Of course, this concerns a draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. Amendments 1, 2, 9, 10, 17, 18, 23, 24, 26, 27, 32, 33, 40, 41, 47, 48 and 55 delete the regulation on operational and exploratory activities in the field of IT data media and the internet. Amendments 3, 8, 11, 19, 28, 34, 42, 49 and 56 cause the first President of the Supreme Court to issue a decision on matters relating to operational control or the making available of telecommunications and postal data or the use of materials from these activities in criminal proceedings in respect of Members, Senators and President of the Republic of Poland. Amendments 4, 12, 20, 29, 35, 43 and 50 make provision for a district court composed of three judges in cases concerning operational control and the use of material from these activities in criminal proceedings in respect of Members, Senators and President of the Republic of Poland. Amendments 5, 13, 21, 30, 36, 44, and 51 cause the first President of the Supreme Court to issue a decision on matters relating to operational control and the use of material from these criminal proceedings in respect of Members, Senators and President of the Republic of Poland. Amendments 6, 14, 22, 31, 37, 45 and 52 make it possible for notaries, lawyers, tax advisers, journalists and not only prosecutors to file complaints about the use of material collected as a result of operational control of the relative prohibited evidence. Amendments 7, 15, 16, 25, 38, 46, 53, 54 aim to introduce a prior judicial review of the provision of telecommunications and postal data. The amendments also introduce an obligation to inform persons about the acquisition of their data. Amendment 39 makes it impossible for data to be made available free of charge to cover the costs of providing data to the competent authorities of the State. There is, of course, also a motion farthest, to reject this law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u145	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Leszek Piechota, Senator Marek Borowski, Senator Piotr Zientarski, Mr Kazimierz Kleina. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] Also... [[Mr. Marshal, you're still a senator...]] [[They're here, Mr. Marshal.]] Excuse me? [[The second rapporteur for the minority...]] I don't have the Senator's name in my script. Let me finish reading, and then I'll ask you what's going on with the senator. In addition, Senator Marek Borowski was the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. Do these senators wish to speak? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u146	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. My amendments aim to ensure that government submissions do not go beyond the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal does not cover Internet matters and the submission of the government's internet case is included. This is, I think, a bad thing. The matter of the Internet should be governed by a separate law, because the matter is very complicated and cannot be mechanically incorporated into the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u147	Thank you very much. Would any of the other senators like to take the floor? You're welcome. Senator Piotr Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u148	I support the amendments that have been tabled. It is about improving the rules, the provisions of this draft challenged in an opinion which will ensure their constitutionality. Most of the amendments presented here eliminate the charge of non-constitutionality.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u149	Thank you very much. Excuse me, sir, how do you report to Senator Libicki? [[I'd just like to, because Senator Rusiecki mentioned me, too...]] Yes, but I have the impression that Senator Rusiecki mentioned your senator's name wrongly. [[No, as I would say, the co-rapporteur of the minority's motion with Senator Shark.]] I don't have the Senator mentioned here, but please, by way of exception, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u150	Okay, thank you. I just want to say about the motion to reject the bill that we're aware of certain deadlines... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Shh...]] ...but with the experience of this term of office, we are convinced that we could fit within these deadlines and without all the shortcomings that we believe there is to be a change on which we are proceeding, we could simply execute the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u151	Thank you very much. Do the other Senators still want to speak? I can't see, I can't hear the calls. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous two proposals are rejected. We are voting on the motion of minorities from the Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted against, 27 against, 60 against. [[Voting No 3]] In the face of the rejection of the proposal for rejection, we are voting on the proposal of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 56 votes against, 28 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Police Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the Act on one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print No 70 and the committee's report In print No 70 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to present a report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to be the representative and rapporteur of the Senate Committee on Family Affairs, Senior Policy... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Shall we continue, or shall we wait a moment, Mr. Marshal? [[High Izbo, I'm so sorry if anyone wants to talk, please leave the room. Excuse me, but we're continuing our deliberations. You're welcome, Senator.]] I am the rapporteur of the Senate Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Act on one-off cash allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016. In this regard, proposals for legislation were presented by various groups of Members in the Sejm. The representative of the law adopted by the Sejm was Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, who presented her sense, meaning and solution at the committee meeting. The Act adopted by the Sejm on 15 January 2016 introduces in 2016, in addition to the valorization of pension benefits, a one-off allowance, which is intended to provide financial support for people receiving relatively small pension benefits, up to PLN 2 000 per month. This allowance shall be paid to persons who, on 29 February of the current year, are entitled to the pensions, pensions or benefits referred to in Article. 2 of the Act, generally speaking: which are subject to general social insurance for farmers' insurance, as well as from the supply system, and the amount of benefits will not exceed, as I said, PLN 2 000. The amount of the single allowance depends on the amount of the benefit claimed. The limits on the amount of benefits received are set at four levels: for persons who receive pensions or pensions up to 900 PLN; for beneficiaries of benefits of more than 900 PLN, up to 1 thousand 100 PLN; for those who receive more than 1 thousand 100 PLN up to 1 thousand 500 PLN; and for the highest category of benefits of 1 thousand 500 PLN up to 2 000 PLN. The Act also specifies the amount of the allowance. I stress that this is a one-time supplement, from 400 PLN to 50 PLN. This supplement is, according to the mentioned groups: 400 PLN, 300 PLN, 200 PLN or 50 PLN, the lowest supplement for this kind of highest category of pensioners and pensioners, i.e. receiving from 1 thousand 500 PLN to 2 thousand PLN. The basis for calculating the allowance shall be the amount of the benefit, including the care allowance, the supplement for complete orphans and other allowances or cash benefits granted on the basis of separate provisions which are paid by pension authorities, in the amount fixed prior to deduction and enforcement and reduction, as well as the suspension of benefits. We have been informed that the differences between the parliamentary projects concerned the amount of this single benefit granted in different categories of persons. Nevertheless, there was a great deal of agreement as to the appropriateness of granting this single benefit. In favour of the bill, 440 votes were cast against, 2 against and 10 abstentions. We have learned so much from the rapporteur of the Sejm, Mrs Eve Tomaszewska. He participated in the committee meeting, among others. Minister Marcin Zielenecki, who presented the government's position on this matter. This is a position in favour of the solutions adopted by the Sejm. The Minister was asked, among others. about how in particular categories the amount of pension benefit... how a large group of people this applies. And since this is important information and that this would probably be the question, I will allow myself to be followed by the Minister who presented this during the work of the committee. Namely, in the benefit range up to PLN 900, 1 million of 465 thousand people are paid in our country. In the next category, i.e. people who charge from 900 PLN to 1 thousand 100 PLN, pensions are charged 1 million 269 thousand people. The next category of pension or pension from 1 thousand 100 PLN to 1 thousand 500 PLN per month is charged by 1 million 461,000 people. As for the range from PLN 1 000 500 to PLN 2 000, we have been informed that this is the benefit of PLN 2 million 250 000 people. The allowances I mentioned here will therefore benefit almost 6.5 million pensioners, who, as I said, do not exceed PLN 2 000. What amount is earmarked for this in the State budget? The amount that is expected is PLN 1 billion 400 million. As we can see and this issue was the subject of the committee's deliberations In spite of such a significant amount for these one-off allowances, the amount allocated to each category is not high. Therefore, there was a discussion as to whether the situation of people who receive pensions should not be considered in the future, especially at the lowest levels, i.e. up to PLN 900, up to PLN 1 000 100 or to PLN 1 thousand 500, because it was considered that they are very low pensions or pensions which require the government, parliament, Senate to return to this. The senators' declarations also went in that direction, that it is certainly a matter for the committee to return to. At the same time, I would like to make it very clear that this is a one-off supplement, which is not taxed, which is something additional. It also follows that we are aware that the valorisation that will be carried out is likely to be a small valorisation because we have deflation, we do not have inflation. Therefore, what is planned will probably be a small amount. The Commission adopted the solutions proposed by the Sejm in the vote, the results of which were as follows: 7 Senators, against 1 Senator, and 2 Senators abstained. At the committee meeting, no proposals were submitted for this law. Thank you for your attention. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u153	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u154	I will give the Senator rapporteur the opportunity to supplement this information by answering the question: were the representatives of the retired unions at the committee meeting and what position have they taken on this bill? Mr Senator said, in truth, that no amendment had been tabled, but it might surprise the senators what Mr President said they all supported, because not everyone voted in favour and it was justified. Therefore, I would ask you to state the reasons why these proposals raised doubts about some senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u155	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u156	Indeed, the committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, as well as representatives of the union of pensioners and pensioners, Ms Teresa Janiszewska. Ms Teresa Janiszewska spoke. It presented such a position that the proposed amount of the single supplement is very low. It presented the situation of pensioners and pensioners, especially those who receive this benefit at the lowest level, and concluded that this supplement was too low in terms of their real impact on their living situation. I stress that here we are dealing with the total amount of PLN 1 billion 400 million, and I have also read for what categories of pensioners how high these allowances will be. They are the highest for those who have the lowest benefit, i.e. up to 900 PLN, and the lowest amount of the allowance is for those whose pensions range from 1 thousand 500 to 2 thousand PLN. In the course of the discussion, one senator questioned the method of calculating the income which entitles him to receive this supplement, to include in this maintenance supplement and, if I remember correctly, to benefit orphans, which of course causes a change of income threshold and a lower supplement, but no application was made in this case, but there was a request to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy to prepare the relevant data which, I understand, would possibly be used to prepare and submit the application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u157	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Grodzki's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you press on your mouth for a medical term that this is some kind of prosthetic. Because the valorization of pensions this year closes with an extremely low amount of 3 zlotys with something, in any case it is difficult to even call it symbolical valorization, because the symbol is well associated, and the amount of valorization 3 zlotys with a hook is associated badly, especially to pensioners. My question is this: was there an issue raised at the committee meeting that many of my retired patients have reported to me that it might be better to divide this allowance into months and pay it in a fixed form as, however, a higher amount of pension valorisation? Has this issue been raised at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u159	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u160	No, that wasn't the proposal at the committee meeting, it wasn't raised. Of course, the members of the committee realized that there was a certain distribution of the amount I mentioned, or PLN 1 billion 400 million. And the proposal you're listing would require an increase of that amount times 12 months. Maybe I misunderstood... Yes? [[Maybe we don't understand each other. I meant, for example, that the amount of 200 PLN or 400 PLN, which is to be divided into 12 months at a time, being budgeted in the same amount, would simply break it down as a permanent supplement going on the following years.]] No, that wasn't an offer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u161	Senator Wojtyla. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u162	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask if these allowances we're discussing concern all insured persons, including those insured at the Social Security Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u163	Yes, they also apply to insured persons in the Social Insurance Fund, but only to those for whom the benefit does not exceed PLN 2 000. [[It's gonna be huge.]] Yeah, we also asked about that. The question was whether, from the point of view of equality principles, including constitutional principles of equality, there would be no problem that people who have a pension higher than PLN 2 000 may question this, but the response from the Ministry and the Legislative Office was such that such solutions were already applied and that there were no such reservations. I would add that the Legislative Office did not make any legislative comments to this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u164	Would any of you like to ask the rapporteur another question? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? The Ministry represents Minister Zielenecki. Welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that there is no official position of the Council of Ministers regarding the Act of 15 January 2016 on a one-off allowance, but in the course of parliamentary work in the Sejm and at the meeting of the Senate Committee I presented my position on behalf of the Government. This is the position in favour of the law as it was adopted by the Sejm on 15 January 2016. The need for this law was repeatedly raised in the course of legislative work. This is due to the fact, one can say, a very low valorisation of pension benefits, which will be carried out regardless of the payment of this single allowance on 1 March 2016. During our legislative work, we were based on, you can say, some forecasts of parameters that affect the level of the valorisation rate. These parameters are mainly inflation rates and the real increase in average wages. It can be said that with regard to this first indicator, the price index of consumer goods and services, we already have official data published by the President of the Central Statistical Office. It can also be said that this forecast was very optimistic, so I would say, because during the work on the 2016 budget, inflation was forecast to reach 99.8% in 2015. So we're going to have to deal with deflation. Right? At this point, we know that the deflation is going to be minus 0.9%. and this inflation rate will be 99.1%. We also know that the price index of consumer goods and services for pensioners' and pensioners' holdings, which amounted to 99,4% last year, will be taken into account when determining the valorisation rate carried out in 2016. We do not yet know the wage rate, but on the basis of this indicator, which is forecasted, we can say that today's figures show that pension benefit valorisation rates are about this valorization, which will be carried out in 2016 at 0.12%. So that when it comes to people receiving the lowest pension benefits, it will actually be a symbolic advantage. This shows that the need to adopt this law, which aims to support people who receive pension benefits at the lowest level, at a level below the average pension benefit, is even greater than we expected, by joining the parliamentary work on this law. On behalf of the Government, I would like to emphasise once again that we are in favour of the Act on one-off allowance in the version adopted by the Sejm on 15 January 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u166	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. You're welcome. Minister, we're gonna need a moment of your time at the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u167	Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the calculations I asked for. The point was to estimate what would be if, however, we shared one supplement... so that we would not reduce benefits to those who receive other allowances. They receive these allowances not by accident They have the power to do so because of other important needs. I'm talking about a maintenance supplement, a supplement for complete orphans or a supplement for veterans. Please tell me, after these calculations, what is your attitude toward the fact that you should withdraw from the inclusion of these income allowances. Well, so it's not like we're giving a care supplement, and as a result, we're moving this person into a worse zone at the income threshold. Some who are close to PLN 2,000 gross will simply fall out of the ranks of those who can get benefits. If this applies to complete orphans, then it will be difficult to move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u168	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Maybe I'll start with these calculations. The senator received these calculations by correspondence, but they were not presented by me and they probably did not reach you. So we've made an estimate of the costs of excluding from the amount of the benefit, the amount of which affects the amount of the one-off allowance for pensioners and pensioners, two allowances, namely the care allowance and the allowance to the survivor's pension for the full orphan. And we made this calculation, taking into account the structure of pension benefits paid from the Social Insurance Fund and from the pension fund of farmers. As regards the cost of excluding these allowances financed by the Social Insurance Fund, this is the amount of PLN 90 million 947 thousand 300. As far as the cost of excluding allowances paid from the pension fund for farmers is concerned, this is an amount of PLN 48 million of PLN 17 000 400. I would just like to say here that the scope of this law will also cover other benefits which are not paid either from the Social Insurance Fund or from the pension fund of farmers; I am referring here to uniform benefits and pre-retirement benefits as well as social benefits. However, one can say that... actually we have not been able to obtain data on these benefits at such a rapid rate, because it will not be large, high amounts, so we can The maximum cost of excluding these allowances from the amount of benefit taken into account in determining this single allowance should not exceed PLN 140 million. So, of course, there is a financial aspect. As the rapporteur said here, we are moving within the limits of the amount that was entered in the 2016 budget; this is the sum of PLN 1 billion 410 million. Taking into account Senator Augustine's request would, it can be said, significantly exceed the limit laid down in the Budget Act. Of course, there are other aspects here. I might also draw your attention to the historical aspect, because this regulation we are discussing today is not a regulation that first appeared in our legal system. I would like to say that an analogy law, which is also very similar in design as regards the content of the solutions contained in it, was adopted in 2005. It was a fund-raising bill for some pensioners and pensioners. This law contained similar arrangements, including arrangements which also assumed that the amount of this single allowance would be based on the sum of the principal amount of the benefit, i.e. the pension, as well as the allowances received. As regards the view of this issue from today's perspective, I would like to say that we are dealing with such a situation that this valorization we are discussing will cover both the main amount of the benefit and the supplement, which will be carried out on 1 March 2016. This valorisation will also increase the amount of care supplements and for the full orphanage. So it can be said that according to this state of affairs, excluding the addition from the base of dimension at the moment to the entire construction of this law does not suit us. You can also refer to legal solutions that were proposed in all three projects. I would like to remind you that this law has been passed on the basis of projects submitted by three groups of Members of the Law and Justice Group, the Civic Platform Group and the Group of Members of the Polish People's Party And in all three projects, this is the solution that we are currently discussing, which assumes, however, that these allowances will be included in the basis for determining the level of income. So that's the ministry's position. We are generally opposed to including this request or this proposal in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u171	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, my questions probably do not relate directly to the content of the bill, but give some picture of the health condition of Poles. I would like to ask where Poland is in Europe when it comes to It's not the nicest term for renters. Are we, say, in the lead or not? That's one thing. The second thing is a care supplement. Is there an extended pool of people who can apply for such an allowance? Because, as you know, you have to meet certain conditions to apply for such an allowance. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u172	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u173	Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll be honest with you... The issue of the condition of pensioners and pensioners, or those who are approaching the retirement age, was discussed in the context of an increase in the retirement age. We are also discussing this in the context of the presidential bill, which is now in the Sejm, which is to return to the previous retirement age. In general, I can say that the health condition of the Polish society, when it comes to people of a similar retirement age, is certainly worse than the average health condition of residents of other European Union countries or residents of the European Union. So personally, for this reason, I believe that the decision to raise the retirement age to 67 is an early decision. This is a decision which, among other things, should not be taken. As far as the care supplement is concerned, I would like to say that in fact two criteria determine the taking of the care supplement. The first is to reach the age limit of 75 years by the person who is currently only retiring, because in the pension law we have the construction of the transition from the state of the pensioner to the pensioner status as soon as the retirement age is reached, so it can be said that at the moment, only pensioners come to the age of 75. The second criterion is the criterion of having a judgment on incapacity for self-existence This is a criterion that applies both to persons entitled to a pension for incapacity for work and to persons who receive a pension.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u174	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u175	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would not speak so ultimatically about the state of health of Poles in the European Union, because medical data says that in this respect we are neither the best nor the worst. In my experience as director of a large hospital, 9 out of 10 people who acquire pension rights come in wanting to work further, and those who cannot work for health reasons go on pension early. And that's the real situation. My question concerns the process of this project within the Committee of the Council of Ministers. On the one hand, the amount allocated to this regulation, which is otherwise useful and slightly increasing the grossly low fixed allowance for pensions, amounts to PLN 1 billion 410 million; on the other hand, the government raises funds for payment in the framework of the flagship project of the party ruling PLN 500 per child, and this year it is to be PLN 16 billion and in the next 23 billion PLN according to estimates. These measures are collected in such a way that trade taxes are established, banks are taxed, which means that the costs of collecting this money will be borne by all of us. Doesn't it seem to you that this is a certain inequality in the treatment of the citizens of the retirees who have worked their entire lives building our country better or worse, towards children who are also extremely important to us? On the one hand, there are 1 billion 400 million, and on the other hand there are 16 billion. Wasn't it worth it... Didn't you think at the Council of Ministers that these proportions should be spread out a little differently? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u176	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We need to be aware of the context in which we are discussing a one-off allowance law. We are discussing this in the context of the forthcoming valorisation of pension benefits. We also need to realise the essence of valorization. Valorisation means adjusting pension benefits to changing economic conditions, i.e. to the declining or, as in 2015, increasing purchasing power of the benefit, as well as taking into account economic development, which is reflected in the real increase in average wage. When a country develops, wages tend to grow faster. than prices and we see an increase in the real value of average wages. Of course, I do not mean to say that I am satisfied with the amount of pension benefits that Poles receive. I agree with... Maybe I don't really like the definition of prosthesis, but it's actually quite right here today that we're dealing with a certain prosthesis. In any case, we are dealing with a single legal solution which is in fact intended to support those receiving benefits at the lowest level, at a level below the average pension benefit. I would like to say that I am not satisfied with the level of benefits, but we are talking about a solution which is merely intended to complement this inadequate symbolic valorization of benefits. I think we can return to the discussion on the valorisation mechanism and on pension benefits in a broader context. This year, 2016, the pension system will be reviewed. This is a review that has been recorded in two laws, among others. in the Act increasing retirement age, but also in the Act governing the new functioning of open pension funds. And we, as family, labour and social policy departments, are preparing for this review, we want to treat this review in a systematic, comprehensive way, and we want to look also at the amount of pension benefits, as well as the overall mechanism for the valorisation of these benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u178	Thank you very much. Senator Major. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I didn't ask that question at the committee meeting, then I tried to find it in the editors, but I didn't. That is why I will allow myself to ask such a short question to the Minister. In 2015 and 2014, i.e. in the last two years, has the Government of the Republic of Poland proposed any allowances for pensioners who would raise the lowest pensions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u180	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u181	No such allowances were paid. The only mechanism aimed at maintaining the value of benefits was the valorisation mechanism. It can be said that regardless of these allowances, which I hope will be paid, it will also be applied in 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u182	Thank you. Senator Swede. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u183	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. As far as the one-off allowance bill is concerned, we have the amount of PLN 1 billion 410 million secured in the state budget. In addition to this law, which was tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, two projects of the Civic Platform and PSL clubs were also submitted during the legislative work in the Sejm. From the committee meeting I remember that they are, as far as the financial impact is concerned, more expensive by about PLN 113 million. Later, in the second reading, the PSL Parliamentary Club went even further and proposed to double these amounts. Were any sources of funding indicated? Where do you get the money for that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u184	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u185	I can tell you how the amendment tabled by the PSL Parliamentary Club was discussed. We can say that we have been presented with a description of the efforts of the previous Minister of Labour and Social Policy to save PLN 1 billion 410 million in the 2016 budget. The Minister, so to speak, was also gracious to present to us a path that we could follow in seeking further measures. He claimed that the National Bank of Poland is the source from which it could be financed. That's all I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u186	Thank you very much. No questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine. You're welcome. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Of course, we need to intervene, it's not open to discussion. We were all convinced that, according to the constant rules of valorization, pensioners and pensioners would get such low increases that actually the value of one postage stamp. That would really cause widespread dissatisfaction. But first of all, it is worth noting that this is not the first time. We were talking about what was happening in 2015. Let us also remind you of what was happening in 2012 when it was decided on a quota valorisation for such an intention to help, above all, those who have the lowest benefits. I'm talking about it because it's the essence of the problem and the essence of the bill. Because she doesn't give everyone the benefit. Yes? She's supposed to take care of those who are the hardest. Therefore, we remain with these two problems. The first, however, is a considerable gap when it comes to the amount of pensions. This has awakened and aroused, especially in the Law and Justice, great emotions and also various proposals were made. We know that this way, in order to propose quota valorisation, was wrong and questioned by the Constitutional Court. But it seems that we need to keep looking, i.e. You have to think about how it's supposed to go on. And the second problem that is revealed on this occasion is, of course, that there are times when the valorization according to constant principles is actually less than symbolic. Maybe instead of prostheticizing, it would be worth thinking about such records that would introduce a permanent procedure in a situation that, as we know, will probably repeat itself during cyclical cycles. Because this was the case in 2005, it is now, we do not know what will happen next year. And we're still in one-off intervention. Retirists and pensioners would prefer to know that if this were to happen, it would be a procedure and it would not be done on such a basis that there would be good will or good will, but that there would be a duty. Well, then, I do. And I also reflect on this to the new management of the Ministry. The fact that these two circumstances should be taken into account is that we are on the eve of major changes in the pension system. Maybe that's the issue. It is certainly not a priority, but an important one could be a matter of caution. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to talk about this bill. True, in 2005 and in the amendments that were notified, it was always said to include, up to the level of income, a maintenance supplement, a supplement for complete orphans. But I had the impression that no matter how much someone, that I would say so, held on to the pocket, in our committee we all agreed that it was not okay to give a one-time supplement, but we reduce the amount of this allowance or the chances of receiving it when someone gets another supplement. I pointed out that the state with regard to the care supplement you say that it is too small anyway, that these people after 75 years, so when precisely this supplement begins to be granted out of office, without any examination of the situation of these people You have to buy free drugs. So you admit that their situation is relatively worse than others. And here's the opposite. It turns out that their situation is relatively better in the sense that they are included in this supplement to income and, in quotes, punishes or reduces the benefit or takes it away. I don't think that's right. I don't want to empathize here anymore when it comes to orphans and, say, veterans, but in these cases this mechanism would also occur. Of course, the Minister was right to speak here about budgetary realities. But, ladies and gentlemen, we, as Senate, will also be shaping the budget here. So if we were to decide not to punish those who, for important reasons, get other allowances, the fact that they are in danger of reducing the one-off allowance we are talking about or even depriving them of, of course, we would accept the commitment that we will be looking for resources in the budget to do so, because we should not leave this matter behind. I'm having second thoughts. whether we are or are not able to find the means. But you're welcome... First of all, let's not agree to a raise for executives in offices. Why retired people, as you pointed out from the retirement union, are to swallow that the government gives directors a salary of up to 20,000 dollars. And at the same time he says, and we don't have any money for you? Why should we go on the agenda over the fact that there's extra money for medications for the same group, but if you have a maintenance supplement, then your chances of a one-time supplement are falling? Why are we finally talking about the fact that there will be billions to reduce or restore the previous retirement age, and we will run out of PLN 140 million to make up for the legitimate expectations of pensioners in this matter? It seems to me that these budget slacks are probably big enough and that we can only find any problem within this conglomerate. I'll remind you that your union rep for pensioners and invalids said that if someone gets this one-time supplement in the lowest group, it's gonna be 11 gr a day. I will, of course, make the appropriate amendments. Finally, I would like to address in one sentence what the Minister said during his speech. The Minister said that the decision to increase the retirement age was unfair because of the health situation on average worse than in the European Union. It's an absolute confusion of order. Just like the senator was paying attention here... If someone is poor in health, is sick, can't work, then of course he should apply for a pension and should receive it. And it has nothing to do with retirement age. It can happen to anyone of all ages. The decision to increase the retirement age was taken in the care of the amount of pensions. The retirement age can be set at any level, but we are obliged to ensure that pensions are adequate. And that's why those who are healthy enough to work should work longer for themselves not for someone, for themselves first, because the pay is 40% higher than retirement, always, and secondly, because in the future they will receive a higher pension. It's an obvious intention. Mr. Marshal, I'm making two amendments to you. The first, of course, is the one that makes the care allowance, the orphan allowance and other benefits that the Minister said were not particularly financially valid, not part of the income when granting a single pension allowance. Second amendment It is possible to consider the financial consequences, but it changes the thresholds as proposed during the parliamentary session, so the first threshold reduces to PLN 350, the second one to PLN 250. Thanks to the fact that these groups are absolutely comparable as they are summarized And that's why I asked the Minister to behave here... This is even more, even more of these savings, than it takes to give the least earner at least 100 PLN, not 50 PLN. Really, it also has the dimension of the symbol. Well, 50 zł once a year This doesn't look serious. And we could change that. And that is what he calls for by handing these amendments to the marshal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u188	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Such a direct motive of my speech, that today I am talking about the issues of this supplement, is the speech, which was also mentioned by Senator Augustine, representative of the union of pensioners and rectors of Polish teachers. During the committee meeting held the day before yesterday, a trade union representative painted a very dramatic condition in which Polish pensioners and pensioners live. Ladies and gentlemen, there was very much right about what the representative of this union was talking about. Indeed, the condition of Polish pensioners and seniors is dramatic. I, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, am a senator from the rural areas around the village. There in the counties there are villagers, who often vegetate, live at a very low level. And this discussion really is a reason for me to have a broad discussion about what senior policy in our country looks like. Because what happened at the committee meeting was actually the tip of the iceberg, the presentation of a diagnosis about the condition in which retired people and pensioners live, those most handicapped layers, people who don't even have $1,000 a month, and they have to survive, they have to buy drugs, they have to pay rent, they have to function. These people live both in cities and in rural environments. The village is more handicapped. It's still to the doctor, it's still to the communication nodes, it's relatively harder to live there. Dear Lords, this diagnosis which the union representative has made is actually a diagnosis of the state we found, we found it as Law and Justice. Today, with great respect, I accept the words of Senator Augustine, who says to raise these amounts to increase them to count certain values. But, ladies and gentlemen, in the last two years, I've been asking the Minister about this. No amount was found for allowances for the poorest ones. We have, Dear Sirs, huge omissions in the health protection of seniors. Of course, there were valuable initiatives Mr. Duda is here in this courtroom... We have an ASOS program that builds the activation of older people. But, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of care, we have extensive omissions. In fact, today's speech by the Minister, who said that there must be a reflection on the pension system as a whole, and that this reflection must also include the senior policy that the government will be conducting. It is the beginning of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have such a situation that the government of the countries as its matter is getting harder. The budgetary situation after the inclusion of the government is not different. We have as much resources as we can give. We share what we have. And I am firmly convinced that we are doing this with full responsibility for all social groups, both for children, for young people and for older people. We can't, Dear Sirs, in this room. - Especially in this room. - These groups are opposed to each other. What you are saying, which is less for children, more for seniors, are, in my opinion, words unworthy of this room. Let's talk about the condition of the elderly in full seriousness, let's talk about what we should do for seniors to live better so that geriatrics arrive in Poland. Because I don't know if you know that we have the lowest ratio of doctors specialising in geriatrics in the European group of countries, of course this is a conversion rate of 10,000 inhabitants. This is also a factor in the condition of seniors and what has happened in recent years. Therefore, please don't mess up what we're doing, give us a chance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u190	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! Minister! There is no doubt that even if we call something a prosthetic, it is better than lack of limb or lack of support. And there is no doubt that this one-time supplement is a useful undertaking. But I'm going to refer to Senator Majer's friend's words here because no one here said less children, more older. That's not the point. The point is that people who are at the end of their lives, in the fall of their lives, should have decent conditions. This does not only apply, as we all know, to money, but also to access to medicines, access to healthcare, access to social services and many other aspects. Money, however, is one of the foundations of a peaceful old age. In fulfilling the demands that have come to me in many cases And I treat people over 60 every day because that's the structure of the clinic that I'm honored to run... These are mostly older people. They asked to make an amendment which does not affect budgetary discipline, does not increase the amounts allocated to this project, which concerns the distribution of these 400, 300, 200 or 50 PLN as a permanent supplement to their pensions so that it can be carried forward to the next years, which will not change the budgetary position this year, but in the following year, yes, it will affect it. I can develop it, but I want to spare you the drama of the older people that I observe on a daily basis. And this little gesture, which, indeed, changes the pronunciation of this law quite substantially, but which does not change the amount of the budget burden, would be a bow towards pensioners and pensioners, which is why I declare this as an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u192	Thank you very much. Professor Stanisławek. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Senator Augustine has an outstanding ability to stimulate discussion, and he also ripped me out, so to speak, from a pleasant seat. And I would like to refer both to the bill and to the statements that have been made here. It was quite clear here that the increase in the retirement age was intended to increase benefits. Well, you know, that way we could go in a very bad direction. The retirement age, such as 70 or 80, will be even higher. You know, this balance between quitting work and going to rest in good health varies from country to country. It is not that simple and automatically... What has been done with us, moving solutions regarding retirement age from countries where the average age is much higher than in Poland... Well, you can't compare that. That's one thing. Second thing. I am not an economist and I completely do not understand these calculations showing that the reduction of the retirement age now will have some catastrophic consequences for the Treasury that it will be a huge burden. There's no... On the contrary, I see the benefits here. I'm retiring, and I have a high salary. I have a high salary, and I get a lower pension. For the part that I don't get as a salary, a young man comes into this position. There's no cost, there's no cost. However, the problem is to maintain a good quality of life at an age... after retirement. I'm already overlooking other aspects of our discussion here. I will repeat what Senator Grodzki said, that this law, although minimally, compensates for the very low pensions and benefits that are with us. So that, of course, we support this law in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u194	Thank you very much. Once again, Senator Augustine, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u195	Minister! Mr. Marshal... I apologize for the lack of dignity... Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I was very pleased to hear from Senator Majer first of all. Indeed, this is only a partial and selective submission. Rescue, intervention, whatever it is. They called it, it has to be done. We can discuss at what level, what we can afford, what we can't... I firmly say that we should, however, take account of this amendment that I have asked for. And what made me happy about this speech was the idea of looking at it as a whole, i.e. for this unwritten, but everywhere present intergenerational contract. That's the way it is with the pension system. As for what Mr Stanisławek said, Professor, it is not enough for only one employee to retire. Ten haven't worked that long, and two will be working soon. And that's why these systems, all pension systems based on intergenerational solidarity, are screaming at the seams. Once you came to me and said, "Where's my money?" I've paid so many years, and now I'm getting such a low pension. We sat down and started counting. Unfortunately, she didn't make much money and retired early. We started counting how much she saved. Turns out she's been retiring for almost 20 years and her money saved is long gone. In an individual dimension actually... Especially men say: on average, we live only a few years after retirement, where is our money? But on a general, social level, one must regrettably remember that to all pension systems we pay as much as 35%. This is a huge deficit. That means we're taking money from other places, from other taxes. It's worth catching Senator Majer's thought. And perhaps it would be worth discussing here. 'Cause, you'll admit, Minister, the Senate is a good place for that. To change, to enrich... or even to replace merely the assumptions of a long-term senior policy with a real senior policy programme for many years. Especially in the aspect that the senator raised here, it seems that the minister did, too. I am referring to the issue of care for one group. As we know, there is also a judgment of the Constitutional Court to execute. There is a question of taking the path at all in this area. The Senate has been working on some solutions for many years. If the Minister were to accept such a proposal and the Marshals agreed to it, we could really have this debate here, we could have it, and then it would certainly be easier for us to put all the other senior issues in some broader programme that would become, God forbid, a programme of this or another government, but a national programme. Because we lack a national agenda for senior policy. Thank you. [[There won't be a spark, Professor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u196	Thank you very much. Senator Rooster. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear guests! I'm very happy and I'd like to hand over to the Minister... I would like to congratulate the current government on looking forward to the future, at the family. Because we're all talking about different pension systems, but, ladies and gentlemen, whether the retirement age is going to be lower or higher... If the childhood is not increased in Poland, who will earn us? I congratulate you and am delighted that the 500+ family programme is being implemented because this is how we support the Polish family. And speaking... I am a strong supporter of reducing the retirement age. Because most of all, Dear Sirs, it will come back then, that is how I will describe it, Grandma's institution. Now, after raising the retirement age, grandma's institution is gone and there's no one to play with grandkids. And I wouldn't want us to go back to such a time that children with a key around their neck will go to kindergarten at 4:00 a.m. and come back at night. Let me say one more thing, my dear fellow Members: I am just... I remember the times of the first reforms and I greatly respect Senator Grodzki, but I do not agree that the pensioner should be employed. No. In my opinion, if we want to approach all the problems socially, it must be said that when someone retires, they should be retired and the unemployed, with the specializations needed in the industry, should return to work. This was the case in the 1980s, in 1989, when even the pension was introduced... And then my pension was probably 30% lower. But unemployment fell. Congratulations, Minister, very competent answers. And I think the pensioner problem should be resolved globally. I stress: globally. There is no Senator Radziwill, the Minister of Health. And I think that a very good policy has been taken by the government, that medicines are free for people over the age of seventy-five. Because, Dear Lords, it is true that sometimes in pharmacies, as a man walked, while still a saintly mommy was alive, it was seen how the pensioner came and had a few pennies tied in his handkerchief, untied her and did not have, Dear Lord, even to pay for the medicine. It's happened to me many times. But I won't brag because it was my sacred duty. That I paid for the meds for an old lady who really didn't have drugs. I agree with Senator Majer. I'm gonna be finishing up slowly. That you should actually watch, because there are doctors, doctors, doctors... I'm not a doctor, but I know there are no doctors in palliative medicine, hospice medicine, geriatrics. However, you know, Mr and Mrs Dear, everyone is looking today to be a great surgeon, an ophthalmologist or a cardiologist, because there's actually some, let's say, money, and not looking at those poor old people who actually need to be focused on and just spend more time with them. And I really congratulate you, Minister, on continuing this policy towards family development. And, as Senator Grodzki said, small steps and forwards. Because you have to talk about how global it is. I'm not coming down here, Mr. and Mrs. Dear Lords, about helping families with disabled children, because you know, if I had gotten into this already, Mr. Marshal, we wouldn't have time. Thank you very much. Congratulations to the Minister. And to congratulate the government on adopting the idea of helping the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u198	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Because I'm a health epidemiologist, I'd like to correct some data here. Indeed, since 1990 the average life expectancy of both men and women in Poland has increased, but the distance between the countries of the old and the new European Union is still very high and ranges from 6 to 7 years, both in men and women. And for those countries that are the best developed and where quality of life is the best, for example. to Scandinavian countries, the average life expectancy, i.e. the quality of life index, for men it is several years. We can't... As I can see, in this discussion, there is talk of senior policy and child support. We need to talk about population policy as a whole. That is why we are in a crisis with regard to the insolvency of the pension system, that we have a demographic crisis. [[Yes, sir.]] And this demographic crisis started in 2000. In the 1980s, when over 740 children were born in 1983... these women entered the reproductive age in 2009... [[You mean thousands?]] And then more than 400,000 children were born, which is far too little for the number of women who were able to give birth. And since 2009 the number of births has decreased. Therefore, 500 PLN per child is saving the situation because these women are missing. They are now entering the reproductive age of the 1990s yearbooks, so we must encourage women to have more children and not, as has been the case so far, one or two children. They have to give birth to more children so we can bounce off this average 1.3 baby... [[That's what I said, that's what I said.]] ...to a woman of childbearing age. And in 2009 we had an average of 1.4 children per woman of childbearing age. And now we're talking about drugs here, but it's not like we can talk about... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please, Mr. Marshal.]] We're not gonna have one problem putting in a child allowance, a one-off allowance for pensioners and pensioners... [[Yes. Yes.]] ... . and expenses when it comes to free medicines for older people. Ladies and gentlemen, back in the 1990s, it was examined what was its own share, the co-payment of patients for drugs. In the world, it is believed that co-payment of more than 30% threatens the health safety of patients. And we're getting close to 50% right now! And no one's making it public. That's why it's the right thing to do to give older people free meds because they're leaving and... Here I deal with this problem professionally, scientifically, Senator Rooster intuitively sees that they leave the window at the pharmacy without buying drugs. I am a doctor all the time practicing and confirming: it is. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot only talk about senior policy, not to mention children, about the entire population and demographic policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u200	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki. You're welcome. The second statement is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen Senators and Dear Visitors! Referring to Senator Rooster's statement: thank you for your kind words and I would like to assure you that my mutual respect is equally great, especially in the context of your tough attitude and what you have done in your life. I am proud to be able to sit with you in the same Chamber. When you talk about retirement, you have to realize that this case has a slightly different meaning in every area. If all the nurses working at our hospital, who have reached retirement rights, had retired, there would have been no nurses. And this is one of the next crises affecting us. That's why the retirement age debate is probably still ahead of us. I would just like to add that geriatrics I think Professor Stanisławek will agree here, because we do have a huge demand for geriatrics. This is a specialty that is now preferred. Young residents get even more money if they choose geriatrics. On the other hand, a good internist will also cope perfectly with treatment of the elderly. And so it happens that most of the diseases of the elderly are treated on ordinary internships, not on geriatrics that are not there. However, it is important to take care of the development of this specialty, since we have already decided that it is to be created; although it must also be realized that this scope is also part of the decent work of an internist. And I want to assure you, Senator, that in geriatrics, too, people, if they get a reputation and have patients, do not starve to death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u202	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Augustyn and Senator Grodzki. The discussion is closed. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u203	Message number one. Today, immediately after the adjournment is announced, a joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions will be held on the examination of two laws: the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Senator's Printing No 74; and the Law on the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the Law on the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office No 75. Message number two. Meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of amendments to the Act on one-off cash allowances for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016 will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in sitting in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u204	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. This item is closed. Okay, we're adjourned until 6:30. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 39 to 18 minutes 31]] Resume the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law of the Criminal Code. The text of the Act is contained in print No 69 and the report of the Commission In print No 69A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a proposal from the committee to adopt a law amending the criminal code, which concerns the extension of the limitation period for criminal prosecutions in respect of proceedings which have been initiated, not about the years 5, as so far constituted an article. 102 of the Penal Code, but 10 years old. This is a return to the legal regulation that has existed for a number of years, but has been amended in 2015, by the way, not to know why. As a result of this change, several hundred cases have now been resolved because of the fact that there has been a statute of limitations in the course of the proceedings. This fundamental change is that, as I say, only the limitation period provided for in the preceding article, namely Article, is extended from 5 years to 10 years. 105... I'm sorry, Art. 101. For example: if the institution has a limitation period of 30, for example. in the case of a homicide, and if, at that time, proceedings were initiated in the case, not necessarily in persona, it is sufficient that in the case, this period of 30 years is extended by the following years 10 years rather than 5 years. This is a change which does not affect anybody's rights, because the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled in its earlier case law that there is no such thing as an exhibition, i.e. the expected acquisition of the right to limitation, which would exist in a certain code regulation and would then be changed by extending that period of limitation. Therefore, a proposal for the adoption of the Law on the above amendment has been submitted here without any amendment. There were no reservations on this issue, no discussions on the possible amendment of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u206	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u207	Senator rapporteur, if the statute of limitations applies to a homicide, now it's an extension from 30 to 40 years. Yes? What about the other crimes? Let's say that the statute of limitations on certain other crimes... The extension is ten years old, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u208	Of course. [[This is...]] This will also extend for another 10 years, from 10 years to 20 years. [[Ten years to 20, right?]] Yes. And where there is a 5-year statute of limitations, in cases of offences at risk of relatively low, lowest penalties, it will extend from 5 years to 15 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u209	Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u210	I am not a member of the committee, so I would like to know when this provision will enter into force and whether it will deal with pending cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u211	The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the announcement. And of course it's about cases that are under way because, like I said, there's no such thing as executing the acquisition of some kind of limitation right. According to this ruling of the Constitutional Court, which I mentioned... Because, at the same time as such changes were made and limitation periods were extended, an action was brought before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Constitutional Tribunal made it clear that no expetition concerning the limitation of prosecution of the offence could be referred to here. [[Which one of you...]] Art. 2 expressly regulates the matter which the senator has asked, stating explicitly that the statute of limitations imposed by that law applies to acts committed before the date of entry into force of this Act, unless the limitation period has expired. And if it's gone, it's obvious that it has already happened and it's irrevocable, so it's not restored, because there's no such thing as restoring the limitation period.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u212	Mr. Marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u213	Mr. Senator, when it comes to other crimes... [[Please?]] When it comes to other crimes, for 5 years, I understand. Up to 15 years old... Yes? [[Yes.]] Ten years, good. And tell me: what will the case of crimes prosecuted by a private prosecution be like?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u214	In the case of private indictment crimes... This regulation does not apply because it should be noted that this applies to the offences referred to in Article. 101 §1, whereas those prosecuted by private accusations are listed in Article. 101 §2. [[And that doesn't change, does it?]] The general principle remains that there is a statute of limitations over the period of 3 years and a temporal facti, that is, since the crime was committed, and as I remember correctly, 3 months a temporal sciencee, that is, from the moment I found out about the perpetrator of the crime.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u215	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u216	I would like to ask what the cost of this change will be, because if we extend this period, of course not just to make it a case number, but someone is looking at it, there are some people who are obliged to do so... So what are the costs of this change? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u217	High Izbo, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u218	I haven't met the cost calculations here. The costs are actually related only to the fact that if there are any proceedings in which it is possible to engage, let us give experts the costs of expert experts. And there are no other costs, because the prosecution or courts, as they functioned, with the same staff, still function, because their duty, according to the principle of legalism, is to prosecute crimes without following the principle of opportunism, i.e. to judge whether it pays off, whether it is expensive or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u219	Who of the senators wants to ask the rapporteur another question? Nobody. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. On behalf of the government, you are acting Minister Marcin Warchoł. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u220	Let me repeat this question... [[Come on in, Minister.]] ...which deal with organisational issues and cost issues. Doesn't that cause any complications here? And what is the cost issue? Because somebody's doing a job, and every job I think is expensive.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u221	Dear Marshal, High Commission! There's no cost involved... [[Voices from the room: Can't hear!]] This does not involve any costs, since, in any case, the prosecution or the court is carrying out its activities, it pursues the objectives set out in Article. 2 Code of Criminal Procedure to verify whether there has been a criminal offence, to determine the amount of damage, to determine the victims. So that there are no extra costs here. Either way, these cases are being investigated, they're being investigated. And if they are marked as statute-barred, if they are still being implemented, they are the same costs.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u222	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u223	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the financial implications of the 2015 amendment. What were the financial consequences? Did the State Treasury incur any costs in connection with the redemption of proceedings?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u224	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u225	According to information collected by the Ministry of Justice, 668 cases were dropped from 1 July to 30 October as a result of a reduction in the limitation period from 10 to 5 years. And when it comes to the risk of statute of limitations in the following years, there are almost 1 000 cases at risk of statute of limitations; I am talking about 2 consecutive years. So that the consequences are serious, but these are the consequences in the context of justice, the performance of the state's criminal policy function, criminal policy. These cases could not be continued, the damage could not be established in such proceedings. Let us remember that one of the purposes of the proceedings is to determine the amount of the damage, the possible fine, the obligation to remedy the damage or other consequences of criminal offences. Right now, it's hard to estimate, but let's remember, in two years' time, we'd have an expired fuel mob case, a fuel mob case. So it's already a huge cost, if we're talking about it. We can, of course, examine all these cases, draw up this kind of query and ask for files, see what findings have been made in these cases. And then you will be given more or less detailed information about what amounts we are talking about here, the costs, about what State has suffered from this loss. Absolutely, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u226	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u227	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. And do we know, by name, who was the applicant for this change? That's conscious exposure, isn't it? I think it should be public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u228	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u229	High Izbo! Dear Senator, This amendment was introduced by the codification committee. The then Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, my counterpart in this position, Professor Michał Królikowski, has distanced himself from this change in the media, said that he was not quite in favour of this change, but that the codification commission wanted so, the professors wanted so, so we introduced. The translation of professors from the codification commission is enough for me to say euphemistically, unconvincing. Besides, when we read the explanatory text, we find only one sentence there. This deadline had to be shortened because it was extended to 10 years in 2005. So we're shrinking to 5 years and there's no point in maintaining a 10-year period. So that the argument, Mr. Senator, is basically not because it's not. And that's it. This, moreover, is underlined in the parliamentary project, it is written: a very laconic justification of the project. So the legislator made this change in such a way that I would say, completely irrational, arephlexic, as it were, without examining the costs, without analyzing the issues, what this entails. So that's all I can say. The codification committee was the initiator, and the Undersecretary of State in the media has distanced himself from this change.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u230	Senator Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u231	I understand, Minister, that this is a statute of limitations, right? Because we have different limitations, and I want us to be precise here. I have a question: does this submission not violate the principle of lex retro non agit?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u232	No, absolutely, it doesn't violate the lex retro non agit rule, especially since it doesn't apply to cases that have ended. These cases, and that's almost 700 cases, can't be touched in any way. It's over. This is a fundamental guarantee of the citizens' rights of people who can no longer be dragged back to justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u233	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u234	Minister, please tell me whether, in relation to those offences for which this 5-year limitation period has already expired, and now it is extended to 15 years, let's assume, in this range of 5 to 15 years, that the statute of limitations is effective or the case is being taken. How's it look?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u235	Mr. Senator, a case in which the statute of limitations has already taken place is impossible to take. The case is over forever.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u236	Senator Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u237	Sir, I have the following question. Namely, do you think this provision has a chance to activate the workings of the Institute of National Remembrance Investigation, and was it at all an intention or one of the intentions of those who decided to make this amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u238	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u239	High Izbo! Dear Senator, The problem with the statute of limitations on communist crimes is a little more complicated than that. I myself have dealt with this issue scientifically. And he is not within the scope of this change, he is absolutely not touching this topic. He's touching something completely different, but I don't know, Mr. Marshal, if this is the time and place to present such a mini-scientific lecture here. No, it doesn't concern the limitation of communist crimes. The statute of limitations on communist crimes is another problem. Namely, there is a resolution of the Supreme Court of May 2010, in which the Supreme Court said that in the case of deadlines which expired, cases are not possible to take. There is also a law of July 1995, in which it was found that on January 1st, this is a certain puriazum. In other words, six months earlier, there was a statute of limitations on communist crimes, the most common ones. I am thinking here of crimes punishable by punishment up to the age of 5 that could have been prosecuted during the period from 1 January 1990 to 1 January 1995. It's kind of a psychic. I've been writing scientific articles on this subject. In July 1995, a law was introduced which stated that these actions could have been prosecuted but only until 1 January 1995. So six months later, with retroactive effect, absolution was made for all offences punishable by punishment up to the age of 5. These are the most common acts, such as beating or unlawful imprisonment. Unfortunately, these so-called health paths cannot be pursued... The actions involved in the assault during the martial law period cannot be prosecuted, even though the case law in 2000-2010, pending the resolution of the Supreme Court, has attempted to... I know many common court rulings in which common courts have said that the legislator, by introducing the 1999 IPN Act, has in fact restored this limitation period, but the Supreme Court ruled in May 2010, saying that there is no such thing as the restoration of the limitation period. What has already come to an end, by no means and by no means can we take it, the case is closed. And this novel absolutely doesn't apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u240	Which one of you... You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u241	Thank you. Minister, I have a question made up of two parts. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Yes? I don't see...]] Straight ahead, if the minister looked... Thank you. During this period of several months, when the limitation period was shortened, were there any media-known cases among these 668 cases, which, in particular, upset the public? That's the first part of the question. And two: in those two years, when, as you mentioned, about 1,000 cases could have expired, would this kind of case be statute-barred? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u242	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, when it comes to these nearly 700 cases, we didn't do that in the ministry. From the media information I'll give you the numbers. That journalists have researched in this area and two such cases have been mentioned in the media. It was Art-B and so-called. Pershing's case, who was serving a prison sentence for other crimes. I mean, this Pershing group thing, this organized crime group thing. Those two media cases... And as for what kind of cases would be in jeopardy, as I say, the most serious case of this kind. It's a fuel mob thing. Big, big case, dozens of defendants, big threat to the State Treasury's losses. So that this change would prevent the statute of limitations, and it would have expired in just these two years.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u244	Thank you very much. Who would like to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution Annus Domini MMXVI - jubilee of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. The draft resolution under consideration was submitted by a group of senators and is included in print No 60 and the committee's report In print No 60 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Robert Gawl, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It has been my honor to present a report to the Legislative Commission concerning the special resolution establishing the year 2016 of this anniversary. I am pleased that it was introduced today to the plenary session of the Senate, because it is difficult to establish a year in February or March. It's a good thing we're still doing this in January. The Act is the title of Annus Domini MMXVI, the anniversary of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. Several issues were discussed at the committee meeting concerning three paragraphs. The first one referred to the first paragraph in the original version of the draft resolution in which the Senate of the Republic pays tribute to Mieszko I. This raised some controversy and questions about whether to pay homage to the City I. I checked it out, found similar commemorative resolutions in senate prints for the last 3 years, and just to remind you that in the resolution of 16 February 2012, on the 200th anniversary of the birth of Zygmunt Krasiński, there are words: "The Senate of the Republic of Poland." By paying homage to this great Polish poet. In its resolution of 10 May 2012, on the 100th anniversary of the death of Bolesław Prus The Senate of the Republic wishes to recall this exceptional figure, paying tribute to the outstanding patriot. In its resolution of 14 June 2012 the Senate of the Republic of Poland wishes to pay tribute to the last President of the National Council of the Republic of Poland in the exile of colonel. hm. Zygmunt Szadkowski. In its resolution of 3 October 2012. On the 120th anniversary of the birth of General Stanisław Maczek, the Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to this great son of the Polish people. In its resolution of 18 October 2012 the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the beatification of blessed Karolina Kózkówna pays tribute to the Polish martyr, the first girl of the beatified people in the Polish Church. etc., etc. There's 10 more of these resolutions. [[Not enough.]] So I pointed out that the word "hoold" is not an abuse here. No, but the proposal was supported by a majority at the committee meeting and the above wording was changed to the Senate of the Republic of Poland honours the first historical ruler of Poland. We only worshiped Józef Piłsudski once, in 2015. The next paragraph that aroused delicate emotions... I read: The system of values flowing from the Christian faith has become from now on and remains the foundation to this day, and here it has been changed to or from the Poles who are active in the service of the Nation and the State. Finally, the third paragraph, which was discussed at the committee meeting. It has gained its final form: the Senate of the Republic of Poland calls on all institutions and citizens to join the celebration of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism and encourages them to return to the sources of our civilisation. There were questions about what are the sources of our civilization, so once again here I officially remind you that the sources of our civilization are the synthesis of Christian monotheism, Greek thought and the Roman state-creation idea. And to simplify it more simply, it is a combination of ancient and Christian culture. And these are the sources we are talking about in this special resolution. This was the end of the discussion at the meeting of the Legislative Commission. The committee then expressed its approval for the resolution by 9 votes in favour; no one voted against and no one abstained. So much for the dry report on the procedure of the special resolution at the committee meeting. Thank you for your attention. I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u246	Thank you very much. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee, who is also an authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u247	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I wonder who offered to convert the word
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u248	Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u249	As I recall, Senator Borowski was talking about switching... to look for another word. [[By name...]] [[No, Senator Borowski won't admit it.]] [[He won't admit it.]] [[I know who, but I won't tell.]] [[The senator knows, but he won't.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's such a problem for us to, I say, get excited about this situation. Part of it is also a word that is an expression of great appreciation for Apartment I. That's because he made the decision that we're talking about. And let's not discuss today, under whose influence or under the influence of Dąbrowa or by political influence... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...I think that this decision has been made wisely.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u250	Thank you very much. [[I know who, but I won't.]] [[A voice from the hall: Say it!]] High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, please be quiet. [[Voice from the Chamber: European Union...]] Senator Włosowicz came forward to ask the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u251	Thank you. Mr Senator, I have this question: can the committee examine whether the project under discussion is compatible with European Union law... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...and does not the emphasis on our national roots violate the European legal order? Thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u252	As I recall, there was no thought process of that kind at the committee meeting. There was no looking for threads, why it is so, not different. [[Write a question.]] [[But the Bishop approved it?]] [[Once again, I am very appealing for silence. I'm asking you to ask me a question...]] If I may interrupt, I will also say, with regard to the report, that there was also such doubt about the first paragraph, whether Mieszko I was baptized in the Latin rite or in the Eastern rite. They were so... But there was no formal application, so we didn't vote. [[What a dilemma!]] [[Latin.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u253	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u254	Thank you. Of course, behind these questions there are serious... [[Voice from the room: Some mistakes.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...thoughts and differences in the historical approach. I will ask the senator: in the Middle Ages, in relation to the rulers, did it mean anything other than part of it? [[Voice from the room: the Prussian homage.]] I don't know if you're a historian, of course. [[He is, he's a historian.]] It is, isn't it? [[Who is Bogdan Borusewicz by education?]] [[He's a historian.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u255	I would like to remind the marshal, as a historian, that homage in the Middle Ages had a legal dimension. I will only remind you of two such events from the history of Poland, which were very important, namely the most famous of homage, i.e. the homage of Prussian... [[Lenny.]] [[And Russian.]] ...and a Russian tribute. These are two very important acts which were filed in the 16th and 17th centuries, before the majesty of the king of the Republic. [[Mark's nodding his head, I think that's what happened.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u256	Thank you. Mr. Senator Bang. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I feel a duty of some kind, because I am the one who tabled the amendment... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I can't hear Senator Burns.]] My mic's on. [[Voice from the room: Shh.]] Ladies and gentlemen, since I have tabled the amendment to exchange the word "hold" for the word "hello," I will quickly explain what is going on here. There's no hidden bottom here. I was just so quick to conclude that Senator Borowski, having doubts as to whether this is the right word, probably thought in such a direction that homage is a specific legal act with legal consequences. Plus, he just got to me about the Prussian homage. And since we refer here to our first historical ruler, it would be difficult for the Senate of the Republic to pay tribute to the ruler who lived a thousand years ago. So quickly, so as to include Senator Borowski in the group of supporters, at least in most of the resolution, I said that we might then change the word "hoold" to "hello." And the meaning will still be preserved. And since the Senator rapporteur here said that we worshipped Marshal Piłsudski... I guess that's a good precedent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u258	But we also paid tribute to many others, and in this way we could also prepare resolutions. I would like to tell you, while I am by the voice, that... When the signatures were collected under the draft of this resolution, not all of you were in the Chamber, and that is why I am sorry that I could not reach everyone with this project, and I know that many people wanted to sign up for this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u259	Mr. Senator Tight. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u260	Mr. Senator, have you considered... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Shh.]] ...not giving the thousand fiftyth anniversary of the baptism of Poland honors Mieszko I, only recognition for the act of taking over the baptism by Poland? Because I have some doubts about this act of homage to the first ruler of Poland, Mieszko I. I am not a historian, but from these messages I know, it appears that Mieszko I was rather a dubious Christian. He accepted Christianity more for political reasons than for moral or ethical reasons. This justification also raises some doubts. Have you asked historians about certain terms? Because the act of completing statehood in the days of Living I... This is also a rather dubious wording as a historical statement. This act of creating statehood has been going on for a long time. Just like I remember. That's from the sources I've been getting to know. Bolesław Chrobry, not Mieszko I, was such a union of the state. He initiated the creation of this statehood, but it is difficult to say that it was he who completed this act. So that the wordings that have been used here make more sense than the historical truth. That's my feeling, but I'd like to know if the historians have spoken about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u261	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, if I were to present a complete analysis of the history of the period of construction of the Polish state, it would not be enough until the morning. I will just say in short that there is one record that speaks of the year 966 as the date of Poland's baptism. It's a Latin record of Mesco dux baptizatura, and so it's written in a yearbook. The anniversaries were a quick record of an important event related to the functioning of the duke's court. During the period of the Living I we can talk about the transition from what is the first stage of the construction of the Polish state, and it is not yet called Poland, i.e. since the power of Poland, through the so-called Gniezno state, which is clearly defined in the historical document Dagome iudex... And all this together created a political organism, which was called Poland. This is based on studies that have been conducted fairly since the 19th century and are still being conducted until today. Though we do not know the place of baptism To this day, the indication of this place, whether it was Gniezno or Ostrów Lednicki, whether it was Poznań, raises a lively discussion among archaeologists, historians This was undoubtedly the baptism of the ruler. And it is not a matter of resolution or substantive approach to this resolution on our part whether Mieszko I made a decision on the basis of political reflections, whether he made it on the basis of conversion with the help of his wife Dąbrówka there are also such wattles Or for other reasons. This was the case and it is undoubtedly a historical fact. After two years the first Polish missionary bishopry was established in Poznań. Further state-of-the-art development I agree here. He was already in Bolesław Chrobre's period. We will, ladies and gentlemen, celebrate in April the great celebrations related to this, which will begin in Gniezno on 14 April, and then the further part will take place in Poznań, and I think there will be a separate resolution to be adopted by the National Assembly. I do not know if there are any further questions about the phrases that have been used here, but it seems to me that the issues concerning the history itself, the period of the Living I and the building of the Polish state are already explained in a very reliable manner by the great scientific authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u263	Senator Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u264	I'll say this: probably not many of us. At least I would not question the importance of Poland's baptism, precisely because of the development of our statehood at a later time, etc., but as far as historiography is concerned, we are undoubtedly dealing with some mythologicalization of the same Living I, the accompanying figures and circumstances. It's all a foggy story today, and we can only... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and we can get... [[But please, gentlemen, please be quiet.]] We can only guess how he behaved and who Mieszko I was, ladies and gentlemen, based on how other rulers of this type behaved at that time and in this part of Europe. And we can tell each other... you can presume it was a killer and probably smoked, raped, and on the day-to-day basis they were... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm saying... I'm talking about how it was then... But... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I really... [[Quiet, please. And, Senator, let me remind you that we are asking questions that last no more than a minute and relate to the subject matter.]] But can you silence your colleagues, Mr. Marshal? You're very welcome. My question... Because we, the senators, are unable to discuss here... Typically, such resolutions are carried out in such a way that their projects are consulted with outstanding historians and linguists. [[Hands fall off.]] And I'd like to ask you if you've done something like this... 'Cause I'm here too... Well, I'm not thrilled with the wording. Because something else is reminiscing... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Something else is to mention the fact, and something else entirely is to pay tribute or honor a man who really completely... well, we don't know much, except this one. That he was baptized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u265	You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u266	Let me say this: I graduated from a good university in Poznań, Adam Mickiewicz University, I had the privilege of listening to lectures of outstanding professors of mediewists, for 25 years I taught history in high school and never such doubts as these today... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I didn't come. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Hands down! Your hands are falling down!]] Did Mieszko I do bad things or rape? I think we should... [[Long live the blondes!]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...a little restraint of our awakened imagination here, because we are talking about the fact that it was the first historical ruler of Poland. "Historical," that is to say, mentioned in the sources, is his name in the sources. Gall Anonymous describes the situation when the Piast dynasty was born. And I could keep going, too, but why? It seems to me that the placement of Living I in the context of the anniversary of baptism is justified because it was him, not another ruler, who made that decision. I don't really know why. Did he fall so in love with Goodow, who came to Gniezno the year before and didn't let him into bed... [[Oh, this is the most important thing!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...taught him a new faith, or thought about it politically... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...and to protect himself from the German expansion, he was baptized sooner than he was baptized by force? Today is not the time for this kind of distraction. [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u267	Mr. Senator Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u268	Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking because the President has tried to violate my personal interests by suggesting that I have replaced the Hood with Hello. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But you've already confessed to Senator Pak. Thank you. I said I wouldn't give him up. Except you already know what it was like. That's not what I was proposing. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, with this homage, the matter is as follows. The senator is right to say that there were many resolutions in which we paid tribute. Only that we paid tribute to the people we knew all about, to people who, as a matter of fact, still live in our consciousness, whose works live, whose descendants often live. In this case, however, we are dealing with a person who was first written about 100 or 150 years later. [[That's not a question.]] We recognize her as much as we can, but that's all we know about her. That's why it seemed a bit excessive to pay tribute to the City, though. [[That's not a question. Haven't you learned the marshal yet?]] Hence my proposal. The first paragraph was the following: the decision of the first historical ruler of Poland Lives I about the adoption of baptism in the Western rite in 966... [[Mr. Marshal, but we are...]] [[Rules of procedure need to be learned.]] ...was of fundamental importance... [[Now there are questions, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I have repeatedly asked you to ask questions lasting no more than a minute about the subject of the sitting.]] Okay, but I had to explain. And I'd like to... [[At the end of the discussion, please. Now there are questions.]] I would like to propose, Mr. Marshal, although this is not a perfect resolution, but it is already there to end this subject, because we have more important matters, and to accept it. That's it. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u269	Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u270	That's what I was trying to do, so that this poor and beloved Prince of the City... wouldn't become... [[The microphone needs to be turned on.]] And I congratulate you on these 20 years... [[Please turn on the microphone and ask the question.]] I would like to say that the resolution is very good and must be adopted as it is. And that's it. For 10 years I have dealt with resolutions and they have never been the subject of such a general debate, because everyone knows about it. [[Senator, this is...]] I regret that it was not in Krakow that Mieszko I met with Dąbrówka and that there was no baptism, but a really beautiful circumstance and I thank Mr Borowski very much that he wanted to... [[The Wawel Dragon lives there.]] Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u271	Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u272	I in the form of a question my saying... [[You're gonna switch.]] Yeah, I'm gonna turn this into a question. Doesn't the Senator rapporteur think that this discussion was caused by the fact that the accent is located on Apartment I, not baptism, and that this is a mistake? [[This is a tribute to the event.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u273	You're welcome, Senator. [[That's not a question.]] [[That wasn't a question.]] [[This is a tribute to Living I.]] Senator, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u274	No, I don't think so. [[Applause]] [[This hasn't happened yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u275	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions to ask. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate of the Republic of Poland honoring... It was supposed to be a tribute. In my opinion, of course, the "hoold" would better reflect the meaning of this event. Thus, while worshiping the City of I, he believes that the decision to get baptized in the Western Rite in 966 was fundamental to the history of the nation and the state. And, as the rapporteur has already pointed out, in this spirit we will celebrate in April the anniversary of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. Just what Senator Gaweł also recalled, on 14 April there will be celebrations with the Polish Episcopate in Gniezno, and on 15 April the National Assembly will be held in Poznań, i.e. the session of the Sejm and the Senate. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] In short: the celebrated anniversary of the symbolic beginning of the history of the Polish people was very well placed by the archbishop of Łódź Marek Jędraszewski, saying that the sky opened up to the people of Poles 1050 years ago. And someone else. beautifully added that at the same time the people of Polan fell a shadow of the cross and literally created a nation of Poles. In fact, a Christian nation was born from the confluence of the Gentile tribes of that time. And so this nation continues to this day. Because there were some historical questions and even doubts here, let's take a look at history. Let me put it this way: before the name of Prince Polan appeared in the Christian chronicles, he was a heathen, and his principality was invaded by armed border margraves of Germany, turning sword and fire worshipers of Slavic gods. The powerful German Empire, seeking to rule the whole of Europe, was a huge threat to the united state of Polan. Therefore, Prince Mieszko decided to voluntarily recognize the emperor's sovereignty, limiting his sovereignty, but allowing him to continue the process of strengthening the unity of the Polan tribes. In exchange, as we know, as a lenator of the western ruler, he undertook to put several hundred armed men on imperial expeditions and to pay a certain amount of money each year. The Emperor promised not to interfere with the domestic affairs of the country. Also, he was not particularly embarrassed by his foreign policy, and most importantly, he provided protection against border invasions of German margraves. But Mieszko I soon realized that as a pagan emperor's henchman, he could not enter into a partnership with the empire, because, according to the pagan tribes of that time, they belonged not to God's state on earth, but to the kingdom of Satan. So their rulers were treated with contempt as servants of the old gods and of the evil spirit. In this situation, baptism was actually the only chance to strengthen and unite the young state. However, Prince Mieszko acted prudently. Not wanting to become even more dependent on the Germans through baptism, he decided to accept new faith from the Slavs, the Czechs. He passed the baptism act of 966 by marriage to Dąbrówka, the daughter of the Czech prince Boleslaw the Cruel. A year later, Mieszko was baptized. As mentioned here, it is not certain where this baptism took place. However, it is known that it took place on the Great Saturday of April 14. The first Polish chronicler Gall Anonymous, writing about baptism Lives, thought that not only political reasons were at the heart of the Prince's transition to Christianity. It is impossible to ignore the force that attracts new faith, sacraments of the Church, God's grace, and also the influence of Dąbrowa itself on her husband. The unfavorable Bishop of Merseburg Thietmar, who lived at that time, mentions clearly that: "This confessor of Christ - Oaks. - Oaks. - Oaks. In view of her husband's many mistakes in paganism, she was determined to see how she could gain it for her faith. So she worked to convert her husband and listened to her loving Creator. And from this illustrious description of the German chronicler it is clear that by accepting Christianity, the prince personally, and later the entire community of Poles, they enriched their lives for the strength of faith, drew abundantly from the grace of the sacrament, lived the gospel of Christ. And as a result, in two years after the baptism, the house was created... The town founded and endowed in Poznań the first missionary bishopry under the direct command of Rome. The bishop was Jordan brought to Poznań by his house. And again, it was an extremely important, far-sighted decision, because that same year archbishopship was established in Magdeburg, which later claimed to rule over Slavic lands lying east of the Elbe. Bishop Jordan happily separated the Polish Church from German influences. What resulted from the political adoption of Christendom? First of all, as I mentioned, it united the Lechite tribes into one state of the Piasts. Former pagan gods embodied Poland as a tribal, divided into many small books, while the new religion introduced a new legal and social order, creating a united nation from the state. The Prince supported the Church and the clergy, and one another: the clergy supported the princely authority, thus strengthening the continuity of the dynasty. Through clergymen originally from foreign countries, Mieszko had open access to Western Roman culture. Poland, using it, could develop its own national culture, consolidate the Christian identity, strengthen itself internally and externally. Mieszko I died on May 25th date confirmed historically 992 and was buried in the Poznań Cathedral. He was the ruler of an unpopular, builder of a state that has lasted for more than a thousand years. His successor, the eldest son Bolesław, called Chrobry, the first crowned king of the Polish state, introduced Poland to the international arena. And such a reflection at the end, or perhaps an important question: what, as Poles, as a Polish state, have we done today with our baptism? I will remind you that for all centuries Poland has been a bastion of Catholic faith and I think that today, too, in view of the universal surrender of the West, many consider Poland to be the last clash of Christianity. But is Poland really the chain when fighting in the chest? Will we endure the challenges of a kind of time of contempt? I mean the fall in Europe of teaching the Church about monogamous marriage or about the sanctity of life from conception to natural death. Therefore, when celebrating this grand anniversary, let us not forget the unique opportunity we have received, namely, our historical, religious and national identity. This memory is especially needed today in the face of a real invasion of Europe of peoples from the Middle East, Africa, Asia, peoples of even hostile religion, culture and customs. Therefore, without ignoring the need for solidarity with the suffering, exiled or poor, we need virtues of perseverance and wisdom, resistance to manipulation, pride in the fact that we are Poles, Christians. I do not hide that I am so proud to embrace the changes in our homeland that President Andrzej Duda and the Government of Law and Justice initiated. Thank you for listening. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u277	Thank you very much. Senator Chudowska, please take the floor. [[Mr. Marshal, I have been given an explanation in the discussion and I give up my speech. Thank you, sir.]] [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to make two important amendments, but before I do, I would like to point out that this is an extremely important resolution, just as this anniversary is important. After all, it must be said that the history of the nation, the state and the Church has been intertwined for 1050 years. And I have to say that the awareness of these stories is making me unhappy that this resolution is so short. After all, I understand that this jubilee is not only an opportunity to return to events from 1050 years ago, about which you spoke beautifully Senator Ryszka, but also an opportunity to look at all this time, at many names of great Poles, starting with St. Who wasn't Polish, but we know that he's made a point in our history. Through St.Stanislav of Szczepanov, St.Jadwiga, mentioned in the resolution of the Living, Chrobrego, Lokletka, Kazimierz the Great Jagiellonian and many, many others, to the beloved, beloved John Paul II the Great, with whom we could talk, with whom we could see and hold his hands. Until it intimidates this great time and great work and it is difficult to make an effort to write this, so perhaps this short text is a good answer. Senator Fedorovich was talking about Krakow. Of course, there are many places in Cracow that this time from 1050 years ago remember, starting with the relics of the Wawel Cathedral. There are disputes which were the first and the second, but there is a special place among these relics: Rotunda St. Felix and St. Adaukt of the 10th century, which in the 1920s Professor Szyszko-Bohusz found in the royal kitchen building and which in dozens of percent, maybe 60% , or maybe 70% She survived. On the floor of this rotunda there is now a glass under which you can see stones, on which you certainly walked the Chrobry By the way, references to Krakow I remember 1966 and this cruel fight with the Church and with the anniversary of the baptism of Poland, which was given. I remember a meeting with Mr Cyrankiewicz on the Cracow market, so that the believers would not go to Wawel. Of course they went from the market to Wawel, there were even more, on Wawel on that day there was a copy of the painting of Our Lady from Jasna Góra. And the next day there was a solemn procession, for the first time such a solemn procession, and since then there has been such a solemn procession from Wawel to Skalka with relics of St. Wojciech, St. Stanislaus and many other saints of this millennium. It is also worth reminding that at one time, in the space of a few days, two such great processes take place: one in Gniezno and the other in Cracow. And it's been like this for 50 years. There's a lot to say, I might say in a very touching way, that you should kneel before this story and before these great works with respect. That's why I'm making two amendments. One is a return to the words "pay tribute" and I think the Senate will make a decision which one of these versions is correct. And the second amendment, extremely important. In the fourth paragraph, in print no. 60 S, there is the sentence: "The system of values flowing from the Christian faith has since become and remains the foundation or reference point to this day. Well, it can't be orb. Well, he can't. It's debilitating... So each one chooses something, one foundation, and the other one chooses a reference point? I guess the authors of this amendment saw that this sentence appeared twice, because it was like this: "The system of values flowing from the Christian faith has since become and remains the foundation and reference point to this day. It was much better anyway. You can use twice in English in one sentence. You can, but if it bothers anybody, I'd offer to replace it with a pause. Then it would be like this: "The system of values flowing out of the Christian faith has become from now on and remains the foundation to this day. It is an important reference point in the elections of Poles active in the service of the Nation and State. I make such amendments, bowing down and kneeling before the great history of our homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u279	Thank you very much. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u280	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would also like to make two amendments, one being the consequence of the other. Before that happens, however, a little preliminary story. Namely, of course, I would like to comment on some of the comments that were made here during the short exchange of questions, which has already become a discussion. With all due respect to all your senators, I propose to those who have shown their activity that they are interested in exploring the knowledge of this event from 1050 years ago, to look at the latest book, very synthetic, and at the same time giving an image of our present knowledge, our state of knowledge about what happened 1050 years ago. This is the first volume of the synthesis of Polish history, announced as a six-volume, by Professor Andrzej Nowak. I hope that for all of you this is such an important authority in our historical corporation that the history of baptism described there will at least be a reference point if not a foundation. And I suggest that you first read this passage, which is about 40 pages long, and eventually raise issues about what we know today about what happened in 966. I'm sorry for being a little mean, but I don't speak too often so far, because I'm aware that there really are a lot of areas of knowledge in which I'm not so competent. Without my vote, the Senate will survive, and Poland will not collapse. And I would also advise you to approach our historical corporation... [[Applause]] But, of course, that's the malice I'm sorry about. In addition, mostly absent, please send if possible. And now there are definitely substantive issues, that is, the same text. Well, I think our intention is... And I'm gonna say right away that we consulted each other, i.e. I am with Senator Robert Gawl, and this is therefore a proposal which is also accepted by Senator Robert Gawl. Our intention should be to make this year, i.e. 2016 - the year of the anniversary of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. So the point is that there should be such clear information in the text, which is lacking. The sentence that I propose is included in the text. It could be found immediately after the fifth paragraph, the penultimate one, in my opinion, should be very simple and informative: The Senate of the Republic of Poland establishes the year 2016 as the Year of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. And amendment two, which is the consequence. The title would be modified, i.e. enriched, and would have the following wording: Annus Domini MMXVI The Year of the Jubilee of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. Why does it seem to me that this is extremely important, including in substance, an amendment? Because our intention, I think, should be that the Senate, as the House of Reflection, should encourage reflection in 2016. I mean, he encouraged that there should be a debate in the space of the Polish state, a discussion about our foundations, about where we are from. Again, referring to the work of Professor Andrzej Nowak, I will say that his main thesis concerning the baptism adopted by Apartment I, is that we accepted Although Mieszko himself probably did not know this at the time of his baptism, the heritage of the countries of the Mediterranean, and in this heritage we discovered more and more from generation to generation. Among these gifts, it turned out that for the Polish nation it was a gift from this cultural circle the highest gift of freedom. This is a very interesting thesis coming from this act, which took place in 966. And the second reflection is obvious, but I'm sorry to say this again. Until now, no one has said that directly here. Then I'll remind you. Holy baptism is the same as in 966 and in 2016 is a sacrament. [[Yes, sir.]] A sacrament. So even if Mieszko I was baptized, even if the state had some secret knowledge about it. The bishop, the party who baptised him, was not fully aware of what was behind it. What does it mean to be baptized? I mean, give up Satan. To be baptized means to enter into God's Kingdom in the future, and today, by renouncing evil, to bring about good in temporal order. And that's the legacy. This is our heritage we have. In order to give this good reflection, it is worth to point out, I think, that the Senate, as the Chamber of reflection, sets the same year in 2016 the anniversary of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. It's all the more important. I'm sorry to say one more sentence. Unfortunately, to this day we do not have a museum of Polish history, a museum which would have its exhibition, and therefore its message concerning a thousand fiftyth anniversary. This museum, this exhibition would undoubtedly be such a reference for today's reflection on where we came from and where we are going. Since this is not possible, maybe the Senate, although in such a form it will stimulate the Polish nation to reflect and we will discover in 2017 that we are richer about this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u281	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I proposed to adopt this text of the resolution, although I did not fully like everything about it, because at the committee meeting we discussed these issues and I commended the attitude of the Senator of the applicant, who wanted this text to be acceptable to all senators. Such should be the principle that such resolutions, which concern important figures, important events, which all Poles should appreciate, should be formulated so that they do not arouse any definitely negative emotions in anyone. And it seemed like it was, so we decided to do it. As I say, there was a discussion about whether homage or honor... It's okay. As for the first paragraph, I was of a different opinion, I thought that neither homage nor honor, but that it was simply necessary to note this decision and to state that it was fundamental to the history of the nation and the state. But there's another option. Okay. But unfortunately, at the moment when Senator Wind proposes to reverse what is in the fourth paragraph, I want to make it clear that... the resolution can be adopted and will be adopted, but it will not be unanimously adopted. Let me remind you that this fourth paragraph reads: "The system of values flowing from the Christian faith has become from now on and remains the foundation and reference point in the elections of Poles, active in the service of the Nation and the State. For a long time, it certainly was possible to say that. But is it today? Is it true that all Poles today are guided by the values that the Church sets for them? Because these Christian values we are talking about here are determined by the Church, which is quite obvious. [[Voices from the room: No.]] Yes, because it is difficult to say what Christian values we are to speak of. If we are to talk about values such as: "Do not kill" or "Do not steal," it can be said that these are not just Christian values today. Right? Okay. Therefore, there is nothing to appeal to but Christian values. There are Christians in Poland, there are Muslims, there are Jews, there are non-believers. And they all recognize this catalog simply, and not necessarily because it is Christian. I will remind you that Hammurabi was also a rule: a tooth for a tooth, an eye for an eye; no killing was allowed. [[But Mieszko was dead in those days.]] So unfortunately today this depositary of Christian values is the Church, and it is the Church that sets out certain principles and framework for action, and of course Catholics should follow them. It's clear. But let's see what the situation is. In such cases, e.g. How in vitro does everyone agree with the Church? No. The church is for in vitro bans, most Poles are in favour of this method being applied. Isn't there a difference of opinion about birth control? There it is. Is there a law on the anti-violence convention... The church was definitely against this convention, most Poles were in favour. I don't want to mention other things because there's a lot more difference. Therefore, I thought that this paragraph simply drags us into an ideological discussion, which is why it is unnecessary. We are to refer to an event that was really important for the nation and the state, and so it is. I'm an unbeliever, but I appreciate the fact. I appreciate this fact, whether it's because you just saved your country from aggression or because you definitely united different tribes, because the diversity of gods that existed at the time prevented it, and monotheism here acted positively. And in total, of course, the Polish state and the Polish nation owe much to it. And let us stress this as much as possible, let us even return to the record of the roots of civilization that I had doubts about before, well, all right. But here comes a passage which, as it were, obliges everyone to sign up for the present, under what is happening today, and I think that it is unnecessary, it simply causes controversy. When I expressed this view, it was suggested that the word "and" should be replaced by "or." Why? Just to be clear, it doesn't really satisfy me, but the compromise is that you accept... I'm not a pimp. Why does the word "or" change anything? Because it separates the foundation from the reference point. Indeed, Christianity, even for those who are unbelievers, other faiths, etc., is usually a point of reference in the various discussions that we undertake. I therefore considered that this could be acceptable, and I voted in favour of this resolution. Well, if the amendment is sustained and accepted, then by force. At least I won't be able to sign under it. Not because I didn't recognize the role of Living and Baptism, but because of the reasons I just said. And I want you to know that. [[It's not a compromise. It's just...]] In this situation, I make two amendments. The first applies to the first paragraph so that there is neither a "hold" nor a "honest" there. And the other one is going to delete the fourth paragraph. If the fourth paragraph is not deleted, but Senator Wind's amendment is rejected, I can vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u283	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bobka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! A very interesting discussion took place here a little unexpectedly. I would like to refer to what Marshal Borowski said because he touched on very important issues. I'm looking at them differently. Case number one, i.e. Mr. Marshal's statement that today the Church is the depositary of this Christian foundation and that by referring to the Christian value as a foundation, we automatically give expression to a certain submission to the current interpretation of the Church. Mr. Marshal, that is not the point at all, but the appeal to the Christian foundation is much, much deeper. Today in a Europe that needs and seeks certain values, and has a problem with identity, an indication of something that is the foundation and the source... This source at first was purely religious, and the Church was an institution that gave this source a certain dimension, also in a political sense. But this is how Europe's fate turned out. The fate of Poland in particular The fact that this Christian foundation in some sense lost this religious dimension has led to permanent public awareness of certain values. One of them, the key one, you said here, Senator Żaryn. This value is freedom, individual freedom. After all, when Christianity was born, individual freedom was a complete abstraction. Also today, as we think about it, the statement that every human being is by nature free is actually some abstract that conflicts with an elementary empirical experience. This rooted belief in us that each of us is individually free, was brought by Christendom, and this brought as a religious message, because the justification for this was a reference to God. The fact that God loves everyone, that God cares about every individual person, is from the point of view of experiential experience something completely incomprehensible, bizarre. And through the centuries this idea has been so fixed by Christianity that we believe in it today in Europe in a way... also people who have forgotten about Christianity, for which Christianity is indifferent or even see in Christianity as an adversary or a threat to freedom. So in that sense... I also see great value in the fact that today, in this Polish perspective, we are returning to the sources, to baptism, which was 1050 years ago and we want to call this memory as a foundation, not just a fleeting relative reference point. And, Mr. Marshal, I think what I'm saying shouldn't divide us, even though you have a different religious view, a different worldview, etc. Something very valuable, I think, would be that, despite the comments that you have made, this resolution, while maintaining this thought, this message about the Christian foundation, was voted unanimously here in this House. It would be really very valuable and it really has nothing to do with any reference to the present role of the Church. It's really much, much deeper. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u286	Thank you, Senator Bobka, for this speech. What I'm saying is... I don't want to develop a whole discussion here on ideological, religious issues, because I really don't think we'd have enough time for that. All I'm going to say is that this vision you've presented, this argument you've made, is certainly a perfect argument, but what history looks like, we know very well. Whoever has exercised this freedom and who has not exercised this freedom, what the Church has supported and what he has opposed That's all we know from history. So I'd suggest you don't get into it right now. I'd like to draw your attention... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...that in this paragraph are the words of the election of Poles. It is about contemporary elections of Poles, not only past but also contemporary ones. So this system of values has become since then, and remains until today, the foundation and reference point for the elections of Poles. I am already skipping the elections to the Sejm and the Senate, where, as you know, we follow different criteria. In ordinary elections, everyday, human, people don't always follow the doctrine you're talking about, and I've already mentioned... So this sentence would have to be completely different, it would have to be rebuilt, I don't know how yet, because it's like it's not my thing, I wasn't the applicant. The word "or " gave some opportunity to reconcile conflicting views. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the preamble to our constitution, this formula has been applied, with or without. She made it possible to reconcile different world views. Everything else is fine. Notabene, on the occasion, I would like to say that Senator Mammoths, whom I have in mind, so to speak, with sincere friendly affection, approached me and asked why I, as an anti-Catholic, am speaking about baptism. First of all, not an anti-Catholic. Well, then, please, don't even... [[You're making a difference.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, maybe I heard wrong, but the anti-Catholic... Well, first of all, I'm saying it's not an anti-Catholic. I respect every faith and every believer on one condition That he applies the commandments of his faith as much as possible. As far as I know, there are no perfect ones. Secondly, I have already said that I appreciate the role of the Church in the past and the role of baptism. I'm not some crazy anti-cleric. It doesn't make any sense... But we can have different ideas. I believe that agreement must be sought in this regard. Let me stress once again: it would be best to delete this paragraph, because it brings nothing to this matter except conflict.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u287	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rooster. [[Hard, hard!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u288	This place can't be rough, buddy. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'd like to comment on that, Mr. Marshal Borowski. We have the Year of Divine Mercy, His Holiness proclaimed it 2016. The Lord Jesus died on the cross for all. Two villains died with him on the cross. One villain was angry and did not repent of his sins, and the other was a good villain and confessed his sins. The other one heard the words: that day you will be with me in the Kingdom of Heaven. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but you're supposed to be Catholic... [[But please be quiet.]] Don't make fun of me. Don't make fun of me, because, ladies and gentlemen, this is the case. It's really serious. Professor Senator Żaryn spoke about baptism. Baptism is a sacrament. Dear Lord, he who baptizes the child knows that we are born with original sin, and through baptism this sin is removed. The Professor clearly said this is a fight against Satan. And it is, my dear fellows, isn't it? I fully support the speech of Professor Bobka, who clearly said, Senator Borowski, that the ten commandments of God written on the tablet which were passed on Mount Sinai, this is a sacred thing. The Church, since the sacrifice of the Holy Mass in the Upper Room was established on Thursday, is based on ten commandments. We're here sometimes, Dear Lords, we're joking, but... I'll say this. I was in the Arab Parliaments. It begins with the words: in the name of God Almighty. Let someone, gentlemen, smile when the marshal leading begins with the words: in the name of God Almighty... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Let him smile, ladies and gentlemen... I fully support, my dears, the proposal for amendments by Professor Wind, Professor Zarin. Really, let us not be ashamed that we are Christians and that the Town of I was baptized. Back then, Mr and Mrs, there was no politics. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Platform, I suggest you take the Bible, read the Gospel and just discuss it. The Holy Church is the Church of sinners... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And every one of us is a sinner. Every one of us is a sinner, including me, because if I weren't a sinner... [[Voice from the room: you? No...]] Mr. Marshal, let them finish. If I wasn't a sinner, I wouldn't go to confession. And I remind you that it is said that at least once a year, in Easter time, you must approach the confession of the Holy One. And if he doesn't, then he's disfellowshipping himself from the Church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u289	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Gazwada. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft of this resolution is a really important project, of great importance, it is a project that places us in the history that we are creating today. And I would very much ask the High House to be really serious. It doesn't matter if we pay tribute or honor, in my feelings and one and the other, because it's a big story where we're looking for our own identity. Values are created by beings that interact with one another. And I would like to make such an appeal and request. And to Senator Borowski, too. And together, as the High Chamber, as the Senate, we should take this resolution. I'd like to ask you to do that by arguing with this... Because perhaps the senator did not fully read the right intentions and this quite sensitive difference between Christian values, which are universal and which the Christian Europe has adopted as over-normative, as something that determines values which in no way At least because of me, I didn't read it like that. In any way, they are not questioned in Polish law, and what results from my and certainly many faiths flowing from the Catholic, Christian faith. That's the first... And it's beyond divisions, and for each of us beyond any doubt, it's a very great value. These are values that come from the Catholic faith. And I call on the senator to draw attention to my argument. You don't have to believe to accept certain undoubtedly more than multigenerational divisions... to accept divisions... what results from values that have been functioning in Poland for 1050 years. And I hope it goes on like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u291	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This discussion, this debate on this resolution, I'm a little embarrassed. An important matter, an extremely important matter, i.e. a resolution concerning the beginnings of the Polish state, the beginnings of Christianity also on our lands, and everything that constitutes our identity today, and all of us from the Civic Platform, and from the Law and Justice, we bring this to a situation that makes us the senators in this matter absolutely compromised. Everyone knows... I am an economist, I am also a historian and I could probably speak on those issues that concern the matter related to the beginning of the Polish state, because it is also to some extent my hobby. I'm not doing it. But I think we should, however, look at the experience of today's debate and debate, bring to such a situation that, in fact, the resolutions that are most important in terms of citizens' awareness of matters should not be discussed, we should not ask questions at all, because it lowers the profile of the whole project. Please note that in the Sejm, where there are such disputes, where everyone jumps into each other's eyes, at the throats, on resolutions there is absolutely little discussion, there is a consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are addressing this resolution to our fellow citizens, mainly to the young generation. And now imagine that the teacher at school will say: my dear students, look for a resolution of the Senate or the Sejm concerning the 1050th anniversary of the baptism or the beginnings of the Polish state. This young man's gonna start looking, he's gonna find that resolution, and she's not gonna be the worst. But if he starts reading not a resolution, but the whole environment, what happened in plenary, he'll judge us in a way that we never want to be judged. There's no room for argument here. This dispute is not necessary at all, because everything we are talking about here should be dealt with at the committee meeting. What would it matter if this meeting extended or there was another sitting and asked everyone if they had any other comments? It'll be a week later or even two weeks later. Nothing's gonna happen. It's just that my request is this. Mr. Marshal, he's not here, but you're Marshal Czelej, a light man and one who understands all these matters perfectly, matters of culture and others. In order to simply discuss at the Senate Bureau meeting the issue of not discussing such a way of debating resolutions, because it compromises absolutely all of us. We argue about the words, and this dispute, if any, should be held at a committee meeting or the Bureau would suggest that from this club and from this club 2, 3 people meet, prepare, refine the text of the resolution. Then we do it in such a way that we do not embarrass ourselves or Poland. Those are the resolutions I told you about. It's about being. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u293	Thank you very much. Senator Oremski came forward for the discussion. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Borowski gave me a little voice, saying that a Catholic is the one who tries to obey the Ten Commandments. He's trying. Christianity is certainly my greatest identification space, my choice. Here I have the impression that we are having a dispute over a word, whether it's to be either "and" or "or" or "or." I was thinking that there was a story of the Church when at some point it went about the coherence. I think that if we refer to freedom and show that Christianity comes from equality of all people, respect for the dignity of every man, then in the Christian space of freedom is also what we believe in regret, rejecting God, failing to acknowledge his existence. And that's some element that needs to be respected in the name of freedom. For this reason, if a compromise is to be based on the fact that we are able to replace this coherence, then I think it is worth it, all the more so because I think we are doing a little bit of a magical reality. It is not that for everyone it is a foundation, and a reference point, but I would like to believe that it is for most or almost all Poles at least a reference point, because it is certainly not a foundation for everyone. Besides, it seems to me that this amendment is a little bit in the spirit of our constitution, entry into the constitution, which says: all believers in God or those who values, I don't know, try, etc. Therefore, I think it would be good if we could find such words, such a resolution which is in line with what happened 1050 years ago and constituted our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u295	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to support the point of view and attitude presented here by Marshal Borowski. In particular, I believe that it would be right and good to remove the fourth paragraph from this resolution. Please don't be angry, but I will read it to you once again: "The system of values flowing from Christian faith has since become a foundation or reference in the elections of Poles who are active in the service of the Nation and the State. I would draw attention to this part of the active in the service of the Nation and the State. There have been a lot of people like that in our history, and there are still a lot of people. Senator Borowski has actually made a very delicate statement of some reservations, as it were, from the point of view of the unbeliever. Please note that in the history of the nation and the state of active people, e.g. Jews, there were really many. We in this paragraph should ask the Jewish community what she thinks. I recently had the opportunity to visit, and I was delighted, the Museum of the History of Polish Jews in Warsaw. It seems to me that Jews, people of this origin, people of this faith, had a great contribution to the history of Poland and a great importance in the history of Poland. I don't know if we're touching them in that paragraph. That's all I have in mind. I think it would be safer and better to remove this paragraph. Of course, I'm not saying that I'm going to vote against or threaten, because that's not what I'm saying. I mean... I don't think anyone would want to touch those people. and historical, and presently living, these are probably few However, they were certainly active and merited in the service of the nation and the state. Thank you. [[Christianity came out of Judaism.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u297	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Wind, Senator Żaryn, Senator Borowski. Is that still a voice in the discussion? [[No, no, it's more of a formal conclusion.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u298	We would very much like this resolution to be adopted at this Senate meeting. I'd really like to ask you to... [[I understand that the senator is making a request to schedule a committee meeting.]] Yes, sir. [[I see.]] But for it to be today... [[Then give me 10 seconds.]] So we can make that resolution tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u299	Mr. Senator, one second. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is sending a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. I understand that the senator has requested that a committee meeting be scheduled in order to prepare an additional report. The aim is for the third reading of the project to take place at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear a voice of objection, I will consider that the Senate has accepted the proposal. There's no objection. I therefore consider that the Senate has accepted the senator's request and the time limit for the committee's sitting will be set. High Senate, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following items: the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and consider this point as the fifth point; the Law introducing the Law. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and consider this point as point six. At the same time, I propose that these points be considered together. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Objection. I object.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u300	I object to the introduction of these two points, i.e. A law on the prosecutor's office and a law introducing a law on the prosecutor's office. Yesterday around 24 a.m. The Sejm passed the D.A.'s bill. Today she goes to the Senate. It is a comprehensive law, quite complicated and important. I don't understand why the rush, why the rush. I therefore object to this. This bill was to be processed at the next meeting. So I don't understand why you're in such a hurry. [[We'll take the money.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, please clarify. Do you object to the introduction of point five, point six, or do you object to considering these points together?]] I object to the introduction of these two points and also to the consideration of these points together.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u301	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u302	Actually, I volunteered first. But I'd still like to justify it, because... [[There isn't, there isn't.]] [[There isn't. We're voting.]] [[There's no new conclusion.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There isn't? [[We can make formal applications...]] [[There isn't. You can't do that, Mr. Marshal. The motion is to be made.]] I'm making the same motion. I'd just like to extend it to... [[You can't. There isn't.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I object, too, to points five and six. [[But you can't, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: It is already reported...]] [[There isn't, there isn't...]] [[But silence, please.]] Yeah, but I wanted to modify why this proposal... Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to modify it because I wanted to... [[But, Mr. Marshal, there really isn't...]] [[Voice from the courtroom: The marshal is the one who leads, isn't he?]] [[You don't know what he's trying to say, do you?]] [[Mr. Senator, there's been a motion.]] [[But maybe there's an objection?]] Mr. Marshal, may I? [[Voice from the room: But we don't know what the senator applied for. Let him tell you.]] [[But silence, please.]] If I can finish my sentence... Can I finish? Because you're all bothering me. I'd like to justify the request and otherwise report... [[But there's no way!]] [[You can't do that. You can't do that, you understand?]] [[The voice from the courtroom: But the marshal says it.]] [[Listen to what he's trying to say!]] [[Who else is driving...]] [[Then switch, gentlemen!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u303	But, excuse me, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, let me finish. Mr. Senator, you can object, but you can't justify an application already made and repeat it. [[You can't repeat a request previously made by someone else!]] Senator Napieralski. You're welcome. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr President...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u304	I have a request that the senator can file this motion. Because we don't know what kind of application he wants to make, so please don't qualify that application in such a way that it's already been filed. Let the senator say what he has to say, and we'll know. [[You just walked in, you don't know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u305	The senator said he wanted to... Mr. Senator, Senator Florek said... [[Yes...]] ...and it's in the transcript that he wants to file the same application, just to justify it... [[It's about moving to the next meeting. Therefore, I want to make such a request and justify why I want to move to the next meeting, so this is different...]] [[But first you vote on one proposal, and then you make another one. Well, you can't do that, ladies and gentlemen...]] [[They're young senators...]] Senator, once again, after consulting the Legislative Bureau, you may object. Is there an objection? [[There isn't.]] [[And another...]] Please? [[May I? Mr. Marshal, can I have two words?]] Mr. Senator... Mr. Marshal, you're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, you filed a formal motion, and you filed an objection. We should proceed immediately to the vote on your proposal...]] [[There's already been an objection. We're voting.]] [[...who's in favor and who's against it. Thank you.]] In view of the opposition, we shall vote first, first, for the introduction of point 5 and for the introduction of point 6 and, second, for both of these points to be considered together. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Precisely. My proposal was to complete the agenda with items: the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and consider it as the fifth point; the law introducing the law of the prosecutor's office and consider it as point six, and to consider both of these points together. [[We're in.]] We'll vote on my motion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? [[Wait a minute!]] [[We'll wait for the senator.]] Please, who's holding back? [[Whoa, whoa, whoa.]] [[Me too!]] Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 55 for, 21 against. [[Voting No 5]] My application has obtained a majority, so we proceed with the examination of the fifth point... [[And six.]] We proceed to the joint examination of the fifth and sixth agenda: the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. The texts of the laws are contained in prints Nos 74 and 75 and the Commission's reports In prints No 74 A and 75 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Michał Sewerynski, to present the reports of the Commission on the Law
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] The Joint Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Laws and Petitions have examined two laws, i.e. The law on the prosecutor's office and the law on the prosecutor's office. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office is a comprehensive act consisting of 190 provisions governing this important institution again in the system of state authorities. It regulates in detail the following issues... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I'll wait for those who aren't interested to leave. It'll be quieter. First, the general rules define that the Attorney General is the Chief Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor's Office and that the Office of the Prosecutor General is held by the Minister of Justice. This is the biggest novelty resulting from the system. Secondly, it regulates the organisation and organisational structure of the prosecution. He then sits with the National Prosecutor's Council at the Attorney General as a body that upholds the independence of the prosecutors. Then the Public Prosecutor's Office, financing the prosecution's activities, which, of course, comes from the state budget in which it forms a separate part. The prosecution's involvement in legal proceedings and other proceedings, the involvement of the prosecution in combating and preventing crime with other authorities, obligations and rights of prosecutors, i.e. legal status, employee status of prosecutors... [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I have your marshal, please, so I can speak without competition? Because I'm gonna have to increase my voice. That's legal status, employee status of prosecutors. Finally, criminal, disciplinary and professional liability of prosecutors and legal status of auxiliary staff: assistants, applicants and administrative staff of the prosecutor's office. As far as the Law on Introductory Provisions is concerned, in 75 articles it regulates all the consequences of introducing a new law on the prosecution arising from other laws belonging to the justice system, primarily in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Both laws were the subject of a lively discussion. This discussion, which was preceded by the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, highlighted fundamental issues. There have also been questions and doubts about the proposed provisions. With regard to the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, it was first of all noted that certain doubts may arise from the fact that they are used in the General Terms Act, which may give rise to some question of interpretation. It's about terms such as:: impeccable character required of the prosecutor; supervision of deprivation of liberty to be exercised by the prosecutor over any form of imprisonment, temporary arrest and other decisions of imprisonment; scope of non-punishment For any crime committed intentionally or for any crime committed intentionally... a criminal offence. It is a matter of disclosure of property statements and disclosure of the assets of the spouse, a problem of ordering the performance of a procedural act, which may be issued by a superior prosecutor. These doubts subsequently became a basis for discussion, as did doubts of linguistic, editorial nature, doubts about the nature of the compatibility of certain provisions and terminology used in the Act with other laws, raised in particular with regard to the Introductory Law. In the discussion it was explained that, for example, when it comes to: To require that only a person with Polish citizenship should be a prosecutor, the sole purpose of this requirement is to protect the prosecutor from a conflict of loyalty, which could arise if he had a dual citizenship. It was explained that the criterion of integrity is needed because it is not enough that a candidate for a prosecutor is not punished, because it is also about his behaviour, which is not subject to criminal review, but which may be reprehensible and therefore disqualifies the candidate for the prosecutor's office. The issue of disclosure of assets, including the name and disclosure of the property of the spouse, was also discussed. The argument was that, after all, other groups of persons performing public functions make statements of property which are public, published. And the disclosure of a mate's assets is designed to prevent certain situations, so that legal income and source of wealth in marriage are not concealed under the pretext of marital separation. It has also been said that in terms of certain expressions that may give rise to interpretation difficulties, they are due to a certain legislative manner. Such manners are e.g. The abuse of the word 'rule' in many legal acts, where there are no rules, but this has already become actually common practice, and the word'media' taken from the common language today refers almost exclusively to the means of mass communication. The most important issues that were raised in the discussion, apart from editorial and linguistic issues, were the following. It has been pointed out, in particular, that the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office is introducing such an important change, which is to reduce the independence of prosecutors by allowing supervisors to issue orders also in relation to procedural activities. Secondly, that it will be possible to disclose information on the prosecution's case on the basis of the provisions of the law already adopted by the Sejm. Finally, when it comes to the recruitment of prosecutors, the Minister of Justice under this law has too much discretion. There were also critical votes on how to regulate the disciplinary responsibility of prosecutors. These observations were taken into consideration by reason of the fact that the law introduces a new model of the prosecutor's office, i.e. its new location in the system of state authorities, that it is a reaction to the failure of the current model of the prosecutor's office, which was based on the theoretical assumption that the prosecutor's office is to be excluded from the system of state authorities, is to be neither a legislative authority, of course, nor a judicial authority, nor an executive authority, but a different authority, a different part of the state's system. To be an independent, independent, non-commandable body and protected from other manifestations of interference with its activities. The discussion pointed out that the current model of the prosecution ended in failure because it was not independent. We had different evidence that there was pressure and that there were also effective pressures. And the crowning argument was that the prosecutor was to report annually on his activities to the prime minister. It was already a form of addiction. But the further form of addiction was that the Prime Minister did not accept this report, was delayed, or, if he did not accept it, he did not proceed further in what the law allows, namely, he did not dismiss the prosecutor who did not accept the annual report. It was a kind of game, you can say, a game of nerves, but still with political aspects. There were other manifestations of such addictions that were mentioned, quoting the debate before the Sejm, namely... the prosecutor himself said that twice at the request of other authorities, non-procurator, he had to intervene, reveal the course of proceedings in cases, inform... Therefore, if a new model of the prosecutor's office is adopted, the discussion further leads to one which is part of the executive authority, then the logical consequence is that the model is based on a hierarchical relationship, on the hierarchical submission of prosecutors, which explains the possibility for superiors to give orders to them. And which also explains the possibility of revealing the way in which the case is conducted and the state of affairs, because the state, in its power, in its empire, must have the means to act in order to exercise its constitutional function of ensuring order and security for its citizens by prosecuting criminals and overseeing the rule of law, ensuring the rule of law. For this, you need a fully available authority, which is the prosecutor's office. And that corresponds to the model of the prosecutor's office, which will be introduced by the law discussed here. The discussion also pointed out that this model does not work in many European Union countries. The written opinions, which have come from several different sources, also point out that quasi-self-government bodies and international associations of this type operating in Europe are calling for and suggesting the model of such a liberated prosecutor's office. And our return to the model of fully subordinate executive authority does not correspond to suggestions, recommendations or resolutions of various local governments, prosecutors, operating in Europe. Yes, of course, in some simplification, since I cannot present the debate in its entirety, there were debates that ended with a vote. Two proposals were made: applications for rejection of both laws and applications for adoption of both laws without amendments. Proposals for the adoption of laws without amendments were adopted by a large majority. Therefore, I am obliged to recommend to the High Senate such adoption of these laws. Thank you. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u307	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur for the minority of the Legislative Commission and the Commission... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u308	I made a request to you earlier... whether a formal application for a half-hour technical break, until 21.10. If possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u309	Of course. I just thought that after another rapporteur... But of course... [[We need it now.]] Yes, of course. Dismissed until 9:10 p.m. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 39 to 21 minutes 12]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u310	I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present the proposals of the minority of the Commission on the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u311	If I may, I will speak from here for technical reasons. I think it'll be easier for some reason. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my pleasure with Senator Shark to present the proposals of the minority committee. And the first point I would like to draw attention to I am also referring to why we have submitted these proposals. This is the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. In the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, there was above all a point that there was very little time to comment on the matter at hand. Continuing this statement, I would like to point out that the material concerning the very serious change discussed here was received last night in the night. And in Rule 61 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, it is clear that we should receive such material the day before the sitting. That's not what happened. As for the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, your legislator was talking about the fact that the project in question was flawed and inconsistent. Those were basically the words that the legislator thought were the most common. When the legislator pointed out that there were conceptual differences in the draft adopted by the Sejm, Minister Święczkowski said that these conceptual differences were intentional differences. And now the question is: what does the intended conceptual differences mean? Because in my opinion, this is about the word I used at the committee meeting, which caused some uproar. And I used the word "bummer," because that's good... But here I'm going to try to modify it and say this: it's a certain recklessness that comes with it and that the Legislative Bureau was talking about. And I would like to point out that these frivolities, which were many, concern the draft law or the passed law, which is a fundamental law and I would say, a system. There is also, of course, a question of how many laws are being amended as part of this change. There were voices here, also from Professor Sewerinski, that it often happens that there are some consequences that are involved. It is true that this is a situation that we often face, but I would like to draw attention both to the element of time that I attach to it and to the principle of this change. In his report, Senator Seweryński also spoke about our concerns about the bill we are debating, including the fundamental reservation that we will be dealing with the far-reaching interference of the political factor in prosecutorial independence. This is our conviction and this is also at the heart of our proposals for rejecting the projects currently under investigation. In my opinion, this carelessness that we are dealing with here is a carelessness intended. I was talking about this, this technique, this method on another occasion. When we discussed amendments to the Constitutional Court Act. I said then that the constitution could be changed in three ways: to win elections by a constitutional majority; to include a constitutional coalition in Parliament; or to change the constitution through such partial changes of laws, so that unnoticedly and without a constitutional majority to such changes, in fact in the system, could lead. And now we have this feeling that this technique, this principle that was applied to the Constitutional Tribunal and then it was implemented, also today, when it comes to amending the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Act amending the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office... that we are dealing with the same principle, with the same procedure. And this is intended to make it possible, in a situation of this ambiguity and vague wording, to be able to influence the political factor and, let's face it, the policy, which is the Minister of Justice, to be as much as possible. For these reasons presented here by me, Senator Sztark and I have applied for the rejection of both projects, which I am pleased to present to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u312	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u313	I have a question for Senator Libicki. In which countries of the European Union After all, the Union is our European family, and there is such a link between the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice, which is a strict political factor such as the Minister, and a factor to supervise compliance with the law, which is the Attorney General, who upholds the rule of law? In which EU countries does such a solution exist? And a question for Senator Sewerinski. I would like to ask what will happen if, for the Minister of Justice, while maintaining this systemic solution, the personal union of the Minister of Justice The Attorney General, the Prime Minister will one day propose, and the President will swear, a candidate who is not a lawyer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u314	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. [[No, thank you. Thank you.]] Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u315	I have a question for the rapporteur. [[Senator.]] [[I have a question too.]] Senator... I don't know if I should talk. [[You're welcome.]] I mean, I can't imagine. I've only been in this Senate for a few months. Is it possible that such a serious law, even a constitutional law, should be passed on to us within such a time limit and that we can work on it within such a time limit. I can't even... [[Microphone, Mr. Senator.]] ...think that the Senate can work this way. Professor, please answer me why I, who am not a lawyer, have no opportunity to read the draft of such a serious bill that strikes the system of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u316	Senator Grubski. [[It's too hard for illegals.]] [[I didn't ask you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u317	Dear Marshal, a question for the senator, Professor Sewerinski. Professor, art. 19 §1: Departments and offices shall be established in the National Public Prosecutor's Office. Departments of offices may be established, as appropriate, departments or other organisational units, including local ones. I §2: One of the departments in the National Public Prosecutor's Office is the Department of Organised Crime and Corruption responsible for the prosecution of organised crime, the most serious corruption crime... It's about this most serious corruption crime. How will she be classified? Today, this corruption crime is dealt with by the departments of the 5th Attorney's Office of Appeals in the various voivodships. Now it's gonna take over a long-distance cell of the National Attorney's Office. What is the nature of this most serious corruption crime in the National Public Prosecutor's Office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u318	Senator Sewerinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u319	If I could answer later, I'd have a question for Senator Libicki. [[You're welcome, then.]] If I understand correctly, at least in the senator's statement there was a suggestion that the latter, let's say, such a larval method of amending the constitution is illustrated by this amendment of the law on the prosecutor's office. Did I understand correctly that, in your opinion, this is the way to change a step after the Constitution? Yes? [[No.]] Isn't that what this was about? [[Talking in the O.R.]] That's my opening question. Did you mean that these two laws on the prosecutor's office are a tool for gradually amending the constitution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u320	No, I didn't mean that. [[No? I don't have the main question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u321	Good. Professor, maybe you can answer these three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u322	Senator Klich will tell you that I'm not a futurist, and I don't know if the president can make such unreasonable proposals to cast a prosecutor's office. We're talking about futuristics, and we should be talking about facts. On the draft law, on the practice of the prosecutor's office, on other things in this regard. Perhaps I could speak on these subjects. I'm sure we both have some sort of assessment of how the D.A.'s office worked so far, how it worked in the past. And if it works in the future, I don't know. And we certainly didn't talk about it... [[Gowin, who wasn't a lawyer, was on the Minister's Platform.]] ...in the presence of the senator or in the absence of the senator. This was not mentioned at the committee meeting, and I am therefore not competent to comment on it. Similarly, I am not authorized to answer the question of why we are sitting quickly. The order of business and procedure of the Senate are governed by the Senate Marshals, the Senior Convention. Please direct the question to the right address. And as for the concept, the definition of corruption that I was asked about here, this is the concept of material criminal law, and we also did not talk about it in the case of this law, the discussion did not cover this issue at all. The discussion covered only such an issue that in this idea the prosecution is a separate special structure for combating large-scale and corrupt crimes, a special structure of district prosecutors, which has not yet been established on the basis of appeal prosecutors. That was the point, it was marked, especially in the Minister's statement, and everyone could read it in the bill. There was no definition of corruption. I'm gonna stay for a while, see if there's any questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u323	Thank you very much, Professor. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u324	First of all, I will say to Mr Klich that I do not know this case when it comes to the countries of the European Union, and to clarify my answer by answering to Professor Severinski, I am going to say that I was talking about a method, a method of action, not a change of constitution as such, but that it is a method of action, a way of acting, which was simply adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u325	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... I'll do it. I understand, I just wanted to ask you if it's not sometimes that you mean that this law on the prosecution is an example of how to change the constitution with small steps.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u326	Thank you. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u327	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the rapporteur, Professor Sewerinski, whether there was an explanation for this extraordinarily rapid procedure at the committee meeting, e.g. The fact that there's a threat to the state... [[War.]] ...or D.D.A. Seremet lost his ability to exercise his authority as appointed by the holy memory of President Kaczyński. My second question specifically concerns Article. 75 §1 of this law. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Don't talk now... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me. In order to become an ordinary prosecutor, it is necessary to meet 7 or 8 criteria, including a prosecutor's or judge's examination, and to be a general prosecutor, i.e. a supervisor, the head of the whole, you do not need to have a prosecutor's or judge's examination, it is enough to be impeccable, have only Polish citizenship, complete a higher degree in law in Poland and get a master's degree and not be a secret collaborator of the security authorities of the Polish People's Republic of Poland. Why are the requirements for the Attorney General smaller than for the Attorney General, in quotes, ordinary? Shouldn't it be the other way around? Was that discussed?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u328	Thank you. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u329	A question for Professor Sewerinski. Mr. Senator, the committee's discussion was called for, among other things. for the opinion of the first President of the Supreme Court, who, inter alia, questions, questions the problem that... with art. 12 §3 of the project shows that information from a specific procedure may be provided to other persons. What other people are you talking about? Well, we're dealing with the secrets of the investigation. What other people? In addition to the prosecutor's office, the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice Is there any way to reveal the secrets of the investigation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u330	Thank you very much. Senator Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u331	I have a question for Senator Libicki. You mentioned three ways to change the constitution. I have a question: when the Platform separated the role of Minister of Justice and the function of Attorney General, there was a change of constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u332	And Mr. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u333	I have a question for Senator Sewerinski. In the course of the committee's work, was the question of a causal link between the fact that until now the Deputy Prosecutor General is the head of the Institute of National Remembrance Investigation, which is also part of a larger structure, the Institute of National Remembrance, and at the head of this institution is the President of the Institute of National Remembrance? Whether, therefore, the transfer of power over the prosecution into the hands of the Minister of Justice creates either a contradiction or an understatement on the relationship between the Ministry of Justice, the Minister and his competences related to the operation of the IPN investigative unit and the President of the Institute of National Remembrance in the context of the fact that it is chosen in a completely different manner than the one that could have occurred if the IPN had been . a, as you know, is not In a simple way, part of the executive authority?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u334	There are no more calls... [[How's it gone?]] Oh, no, Senator Tight. [[They're here, ……]] Okay, let's get to the answer. First, Professor Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u335	If I may... There was a question as to whether a matter of speed was being discussed at the committee meeting... this, I believe, Senator Zientarski... It's just that there's been such an emergency... Sorry, I can't remember who asked that. We at the committee meeting heard only the accusation from the Senators of the Civic Platform that the proceedings took place quickly, and were raised the same arguments which were presented Here, in plenary. But the matter itself was not the subject of the debate. Neither did the assessment of the U.S. Attorney General working today. As for the possibility offered by the law to share information about other people's affairs... This case was raised by the opposition senators I think it is fair to say that it was raised in a critical way, and the Minister of Justice responded to it. Relations between the IPN and the Assistant Attorney General, which are included in the bill... Whoever read it carefully saw that it was, of course, part of the permanent new structure of the prosecutor's office. I can say that I noticed them, but they didn't seem so questionable to me, so I didn't pick it up myself either. No one else asked that question, and it wasn't under discussion. [[And my question, Mr. Marshal.]] [[And then there's my question.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The questioner can't remember.]] Wait a minute, I wrote it down briefly, but maybe I missed something, so I'm asking for a reminder.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u336	Mr. Marshal, maybe we should get back to the standard question. The answer, because such a series of questions can actually be difficult to remember. My question was whether there was a discussion about the fact that the qualification requirements for prosecutors, quotes, ordinary... Why are they higher than for the Attorney General who's even fired from the prosecutor's exam?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u337	Yeah, I remember now, actually. I'm sorry, I didn't write that down, but I've got some answers in my head. Namely, with regard to the selection criteria, the attention of us, senators, turned mainly the issue of the criterion of integrity of character, because it was raised as inconspicuous That's how I figured it out. The concept in the comments of the Legislative Bureau. Then the Minister answered. I also took the floor explaining that this is understandable and justified to me, because the prosecutor is required of the prosecutor to be innocent for crimes committed intentionally, but something more is required. You can imagine such reprehensible behaviors... I gave you an example. an example of alcohol abuse, which is not a crime, especially not a deliberate crime, but many believe that it disqualifies a candidate for prosecution. So there was a discussion, in particular, about this flawless character, but I do not recall that we are discussing the inequalities in the qualifications of these criteria, which the senator was talking about, I don't think so. I'm very sorry, Senator Zientarski, but I don't remember what you were asking... [[I asked about people... among other things, in the discussion I raised a question...]] Those other people... [[Those other people, for example. Mr. Chairman...]] I'm the one who said, Senator, that to this point... [[...which he had before... that's what I said earlier at the committee meeting. Would the president of the ruling party be able to... it used to be that he was given access to information and files, then illegally. Now, on the basis of this, will he be able to receive it? It's gonna be another person too...]] Mr. Senator, I can repeat: you actually asked that question and pointed out that this is a vague concept and may raise doubts about who it is, who these other people are, and the Minister answered that question, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. There was no lively discussion about this issue. You spoke and spoke to the Minister. Well, I've already answered and I can't add anything else, because nothing else was said. Maybe I'll stay for a while...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u338	Now Senator Libicki will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u339	To answer Professor Probier, I would like to say that no, then there was no change of constitution. And I didn't say that there was a change in constitutional records at the moment, and I said that there was a certain mode of action that I compared to our recent deliberations on the Constitutional Tribunal. I was talking about a certain course of action, not that we are dealing with this situation right now. And I will answer the same question if you ask me about the solutions currently in force, and I do not believe that this has happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u340	Thank you. Let's move on to more questions. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u341	Thank you. The Act combines the functions of the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice, which is negatively assessed by many legal backgrounds and institutions that have consulted the Act. The issue of apoliticity of the prosecution and the possibility of conflict of interest is raised. What will happen in the event that the Attorney General acts before the Constitutional Tribunal, giving an opinion on the constitutionality of the law drawn up in the Ministry of Justice? Will he judge himself? Was this case even raised at the committee meeting as a possible, probable conflict of interest, one that might occur?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u342	Mr Senator, the question is interesting, especially since the second law refers to the apoliticity of prosecutors who cannot belong to political parties, but that was not discussed at the committee meeting, there was no debate on this issue. [[That's too bad.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u343	Mr. Senator Tight. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u344	Thank you. I have a question for Senator Sewerinski, too. Was there a pat on the committee's agenda for setting up an internal affairs department at the national prosecutor's office to deal with criminal acts by judges, prosecutors and asses? The purpose of setting up this body is to question the environments evaluating this law. Isn't there a fear? "Whether this thread was taken That this solution will be taken as a form of pressure on the prosecutor's environment to carry out the political mission of the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u345	There was no debate about this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u346	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u347	But there was a very interesting debate, an exchange of views, Senator, about the sources of this presentation. The submission is formally parliamentary. Minister, Deputy Minister of Justice, however, if I remember correctly, spoke about the government's influence or involvement in this bill. I'd like you to bring it up to speed. You also commented on it. Is this a project? Members only formally, is this a parliamentary project with an important government participation, or is it a government project formally acting as a parliamentary project? I would like to ask for such a distinction, because the involvement of the Ministry of Justice seems to be above-standard for parliamentary projects.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u348	Mr. Senator, we both know this is a parliamentary project. Former representative of the applicants from the Sejm, Mr Wójcik, who spoke as rapporteur. We have no alternative but to formally acknowledge that it was the rapporteur. And the senator was actually commenting And I don't think it's just the senator. Whether really, in fact, not legally, it was a parliamentary project or maybe a government project. I think we can ask such a question, first of all, the senator may ask such a question to the Minister present here. I think he'll be more competent than me. We weren't debating it, but I remember there were comments that you commented on it, and you could have been speculating. As I recall, this was not the subject of the debate, because this question was not formally raised. When the case came into the Senate, we received a message that it was a parliamentary project. The former representative of the applicants, the former rapporteur, spoke in this capacity. That's the legal situation. And more can be said to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u349	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u350	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Professor! One very specific question. From the article. 12 in §3 of the project it is clear that the communication of information from specific proceedings to other persons or to the media does not require the consent of the conductor of the preparatory procedure. Did you not raise this issue during your work in committee so that, however, the conductor would agree? I ask this because he has the greatest knowledge about a given course of action and is able to determine precisely whether such information can be made public or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u351	No such proposal to amend the legislation has been made, but in general, as I said, it has been discussed that it will be possible to provide information on the ongoing proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u352	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u353	Thank you very much. The question, of course, to the senator, to the president, Professor Sewerinski. I will return to the separation of the functions of the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice, which undoubtedly pursues the demand to strengthen the independence of the Prosecutor's Office and creates instruments to protect against political pressure. My question is yes. The current Constitution of the Republic of Poland does not provide for these functions of personnel union and refers separately to the Minister of Justice and separately to the Prosecutor General, that is art. Article 191 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. Can a conclusion be drawn from this? I'm also asking you as a very experienced law professor. That this provision could be contrary to the existing constitution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u354	Senator, I am not authorized to express my opinion as Senator rapporteur. This case certainly wasn't the subject of our committee. Besides, you were in this meeting. [[Yes.]] Perhaps I'll speak up in the discussion. I can presume to say that I do not see contradictions with the constitution. You referred to the Constitutional Tribunal rules. So, uh, pre-emptively... But, I say, now I can't speak as a debater. What I think, and how I imagine it, I'll talk when it's justified. Now I can tell you we certainly haven't talked about this. As far as the constitutional compatibility of this concept is concerned, as the senator knows, no one Not from the Platform, not from the PiS He didn't raise the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u355	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u356	I have a question for you as chairman of the meeting. Have you really done your utmost to obtain the views of the relevant environments that can reasonably comment on this project? Could the senators have personally or at your request heard the views of the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council, the Attorney General, the GIODO, the National Chamber of Legal Counsels, etc. Were the representatives of these institutions invited? Could they have spoken? Did they give the Senate the right opinions on this so that we could debate fairly today? Please tell us what action you have taken in this regard, who has been present and what these opinions have been.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u357	I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but on the question of whether we've done our due diligence, I won't answer, because it's a matter of judgment. [[Who's gonna answer that?]] The senator's gonna judge that. On the basis of the report and on the basis of my answer to your question, you yourself will assess whether we can be accused of lack of care, because such a presumption was in this question. Well, here's what I'm saying. Six opinions were attached to the material, two opinions from the Attorney General, and there were representatives of the Public Prosecutors' Association, the National Public Prosecutor's Council, the Government... I don't remember who else. The question of who was invited may be answered by the secretaries of the committee who telephoned on this matter in my presence as soon as we learned that this bill would be the subject of our committee's work. The senator has rarely sat with me, and I have not had the pleasure to sit with you often, but those who have observed the work of my committee know that I have never avoided attending meetings of the committee of representatives especially of NGOs. We both have a lot to deal with. I tried to make sure that they were present and were able to speak at this meeting. I suppose they didn't all come because of the late hours, but the opinions were attached. In addition, as part of the minority report of the committee, it was said by the senators that these were critical opinions, although not all were critical, for example. The lady who spoke on behalf of the Attorney's Association supported the bill in its entirety. So the opinions were different, but with the advantage of critical opinions sent in writing. The Attorney General even sent two such opinions One sejm and the other prepared for us. So please assess for yourself whether we have been careful. It seems to me that we did the standard thing. Whoever wanted to, was invited, could come and present his position. [[But so what?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u358	Thank you very much. Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u359	Thank you very much. Professor, I'd like to ask you the question of the prosecutor's competence when it comes to deciding whether it is appropriate to disclose the subject matter of the dispute to the media. As far as I can tell, this competence has been taken away from the prosecutor in charge of the case, and now it is obtained by the attorney general, who is also the minister of justice. Does the professor think it's the right thing to do? Was this also discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u360	Mrs. Marshal, we've been discussing what I've been talking about. I'm sure there's something more you can tell the Minister about the regulations. How I'll possibly speak up in the discussion. Right now, I'm not going to argue about the bill or the people who speak, because that's not the role I'm playing here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u361	Thank you very much. Senator Duda... [[You.]] Mr. Senator Duda That's what I said.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u362	Senator rapporteur, is it true that, in order to become a prosecutor general, all it takes is to finish law school and you can never exceed the barge of the prosecutor's office and that even for an asessor, the requirements are greater? Are such records proposed in this Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u363	Mr. Senator, I don't really remember these regulations anymore, I'd have to look in and read them thoroughly. But I do remember that there's a rule that says what requirements, what qualification criteria must be met by a person who wants to become a prosecutor. If we look at the bill, we'll pass on... And if we want an answer quickly, we'll ask the Minister who probably knows the bill best. I'd have to read it. [[I'll ask. Thank you.]] I know there's a recipe, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u364	Thank you. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u365	Thank you very much. Art. 12 §4 of this law states that liability for any claims arising in connection with operations, etc. It's actually about sharing news with the media, as far as I understand it. The Treasury shall bear the State Treasury; that is to say, paragraph 4. At the same time, in the opinion of the President of the Supreme Court, it is stated that, in the justification of the project, if information was provided to the media in the preparatory proceedings, the Attorney General or the prosecutor authorised by him will not be liable for the provision of reliable and consistent information. My question is whether this provision is in the explanatory memorandum, i.e. Is the State Treasury responsible for the claims? And go on. As regards the reservations of the first Supreme Court President, he actually states that such claims could arise as a result of personal property violations. So, on the one hand, the Attorney General has the right to make available Well, if I understand it well. The media's information from the investigation is not civil and material, it is the State Treasury, or, in fact, the main reason why such claims could arise, is the violation of personal property. In short, has this matter been discussed, and is it not clear that the Attorney General may, for some reason, give false or false information to the media and pay the Treasury for it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u366	Senator, I'm going to answer formally first: this matter has not been discussed. But let me add that I am not surprised that the State Treasury is responsible for the damage done by its officers. Would you like it to be different? Excuse me, now I'm asking the question... But I think it's natural.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u367	But this is about violating personal property as part of the provision of information from an ongoing investigation, and this violation of personal property can occur in different ways, also, I would say, in a deliberate manner, which can serve, for example. political objectives. After all, the Attorney General is a minister and he can deliberately say what I'm going to say, wrongly or speak to other people, and the Treasury will pay for it. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u368	Mr. Senator, the hypothesis is different. But I would say this: as he will do on purpose, it is all the more so that the responsibility for this delicacy, for what the evil prosecutor has done, must be borne by the Treasury. It's hard for us to take responsibility from someone else. But that's my grade. This case wasn't discussed. [[Professor, I was talking about the lack of civil liability.]] [[Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki...]] Excuse me, sir. The senator was actually talking about one thing in the context of civil liability. I'm just gonna be honest with you, I'm missing the specific reason. You actually picked it up. But I don't know if it's in a context like the senator said... Although no doubt the recipe is for that. Right? I think the Minister will say more if we have to.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u369	Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u370	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, Professor! I read into the bill and there's a disturbing record here that sounds something like this: it doesn't constitute a disciplinary offence or a failure of the prosecutor to act solely in the public interest. So, Professor, you can do anything with a record like that. You can put people in jail, accuse them without evidence, without any consequences, because, Professor, you can always say there was an important social interest in it. Was that raised at the committee meeting, Senator rapporteur?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u371	No, it wasn't raised, but... [[I was picking it up.]] Mr. Senator, your interpretation is extremely extreme. I'd say it's always possible to judge ad casum. But I understand your concern. Because we can ask if it will be well used. We always have the right to ask whether the rules will be used in a way that is consistent with their intended purpose, whether there will be any abuse against it. This concern will always accompany us. Excuse me, I recall that Senator Klich was also talking about this case... [[That doesn't change my concern.]] Let me say that the late hour makes me not so fresh as to remember, but I admit my omissions. I'd ask that question myself, Senator. [[Senator rapporteur, thank you very much, because you have confirmed that this concern of mine can take place.]] I didn't say anything. Everyone has the right to ask whether the law will be applied according to its content and purpose. [[Thank you very much, Professor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u372	Thank you. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u373	Thank you very much. But I will return, Professor, to today's committee meeting. Because just by proposing that the committee postpone its deliberations to the next date, because of the fact that the Senate and other materials I'll quote the article. 61 Rules of Procedure concerning matters pending at the committee meeting should be served on its members no later than the day before the meeting... Let me remind you that at 0.21 p.m., we received information that such materials appeared. Therefore, this is precisely a failure to comply with the rules of procedure or this is not in accordance with the regulations. But consistently, I'd like to ask... It came to the appointment of today's committee meeting and the committee was dealing with a bill that was not yet on the agenda. It was not until after the committee meeting that this was put on the agenda. Is that possible? [[It came from the Seym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u374	Senator, you've been in the Senate longer than I have, and I think you know the case is on the committee first, and then it's on the agenda. That's a normal order, isn't it? [[Yes.]] [[She's blonde again.]] But I can confirm that the senator has made a formal request to adjourn the committee for the reasons you cited. The proposal was put to the vote and was not taken into account. [[What a mouth. That's not what 2 of this article says.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u375	Thank you. Are there any more questions? [[Look at the art. Article 61 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2.]] Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u376	Mr. Marshal, I've volunteered a long time ago because I'm interested in... Since the rapporteur is not with us, I hope that the rapporteur will tell you what the rapporteur really justified the change in the organisational structure of the prosecutor's office. What exactly is this going to give citizens? Some organs are also changing, so I'd like to ask That's my second question. Do you...? The National Public Prosecutor's Office is to establish a department of internal affairs to investigate the most serious acts committed by judges, court assessors, prosecutors, prosecutors, prosecutors, etc. If there's a department like this, then, I understand, there's conjecture, or maybe evidence... Did she mention that? How many cases are there, and who is involved when a special department is being created? Has it been said how many of these cases are justified by the need for such a department?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u377	The senator thinks I'm gonna answer the question, how many cases are there? [[I think the senator will answer if that was mentioned at the committee meeting.]] I mean, really, really... We didn't talk about these things at the committee meeting. The rapporteur also did not comment on the structure, the internal department in the prosecutor's office. There was a question before, and I already told you that we didn't do that, that department of Internal Affairs. I think the Minister will answer that question for sure. [[But Senator Senator, I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, he's firmly here saying it's a parliamentary project, and now he's sending us back to the Minister.]] Mr. Senator, what's the connection between what you're saying and what I'm saying? I got, like everyone else, a project as a parliamentary. He was at the rapporteur's meeting, but he did not comment on the matters that the senator was asking about. Is that an answer enough? Maybe not what you'd expect, but can I tell you something else... [[That's all it says about this committee meeting, that's all.]] Mr. Senator, you may file a complaint with the marshal for the proceedings of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u378	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u379	The professor has a very good memory, and he reports very well, apart from this one mistake, the proceedings of the committee. I'd like to ask. We should all know that. In this meeting, as was the case with the prosecutors' independence by introducing the possibility of giving orders to prosecutors not only by their direct superiors, but also by the prosecutor general, who doesn't have to be a prosecutor, just... Well, he's a politician. I would therefore like you to remind us of this. This is one of the fundamental issues, one of the allegations that are formulated against both of these laws. This allegation is that, as a result of such a change, there will be a significant reduction in prosecutorial independence, which will adversely affect the conduct of investigations and the consequences of these investigations. I mean, you might want to bring us up to speed, because he was thoroughly analyzed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u380	This thread has come out, Mr. Senator, especially in your critical statement on the matter in which you... If I don't get it right, don't be mad. I already mentioned this in the first part of my report. It was one of the three... of the four main charges that were filed. I didn't attribute this to you at the time, but it was you who formulated this criticism in these four main points. This point was in the first place, and the point was that the possibility of giving an order on a case-by-case action proves a far-reaching addiction, submission of the prosecutor. That's what this cotton wool sounded like, especially in your speech. I am talking about this for the second time now, and for the first time I have said it in part one of the report. It was one of the critical lieutenants, undoubtedly it was.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u381	Thank you. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u382	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, can you recreate this story: was there a change at the committee meeting concerning the fact that... and what is the purpose of this change, that there were prosecutors, and now they will be regional? It's gonna be physically reduced, I think, to changing the plates. Unless there's some hidden meaning to it. Did she mention that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u383	Mr. Senator, there was no such thing as... I mean, I'm sorry, we haven't discussed this case, but, as I recall, the Minister of Justice has pointed out that there will now be another additional degree. And we were talking about the grades of the D.A.'s office that will be in the system of the entire D.A.'s office. And as for the deeper reasons for such diversity, we have not discussed it. But it was known that there would also be a district attorney's office in this new system and that... I'm sorry, regional. [[An appeal to the regional.]] Yeah, regional, not regional. And this will, of course, also result in some changes in names in a clear way. I do. I'm a little confused about what I read in the bill myself, and what I was talking about. But I'm sure the Minister was talking about it, pointing out that it's based on the old A.D.A.'s office... That's right, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u384	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u385	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor! I have this question: did you deal with the question of depriving the President of the Court of Justice of the possibility of objecting to the retirement of the judge as an adviser to the Attorney General or a national prosecutor during the proceedings of this bill in committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u386	Nobody raised that case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u387	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! The professor was gracious in his oral report in the first part to say that the reports that are adopted by the grammar, which I will not mention now, is a certain political game. Yeah, that's right. I wrote it down. Mr. Professor said. Was this the subject of the committee's deliberations? I'm addicting the rest of the question to this answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u389	I understand the senator's point is that the report was to be submitted once a year to the Prime Minister's Attorney General. Yeah, that case was raised in my statement. Because as a debater, I also spoke at the committee meeting. And this solution I found to be a manifestation of a certain political game. Because if the Prime Minister doesn't comment on whether or not he accepts the Attorney General's report, and for a long time, too, when the time is right. Although it is not known when this deadline falls And it doesn't have any consequences, it seems like a political game to me. It was my own opinion at a time when I spoke about the alleged independence of the prosecution in this model that we have so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u390	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u391	So I understand, Professor, that this existing arrangement today is a political arrangement. That's how I understand him here. In relation to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u392	De facto it is. [[De facto it is.]] There's room for political influence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u393	So I understand, Professor, that this new arrangement you are proposing will be apolitical, there will be no political thread. And now my question. I hope it's logical... I'm a little nervous about you, Professor, as on the exam, so I'm gonna ask you a question of logic, Professor. [[Justice must be first I test, now...]] Professor, it's logic now. So I understand that this agreement, that the Prime Minister... and the matter of the report continues, is a political agreement. So what would the professor call the following arrangement? The Minister, who is also the Attorney General, is under the authority of the Prime Minister, he is sworn in by the President, the President may revoke him, he may not be called in. Well, we know different situations, Mr President's decision-making issues. The political body, namely the President, can withdraw its support in this situation, which is probably equivalent to the cancellation of such a minister. What would a professor call a deal like that? If that one's political, and this one's apolitical, then call it some kind of close-minded word.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u394	Again, I have to say this: well, there are some reasons for me to answer that question now. Although it's more suitable for discussion... But in my speech I said Oh, let this be part of the report. For me, this proposed model is simply more honest, it does not pretend that it has no dependence: the prosecutor's office is part of the executive system and is hierarchically subordinate. It's normal for the superiors to give orders. In the current system, the assumption was that no one would give orders to the prosecutor. I consider what is proposed to be a more transparent system. Let me even say more honest. Nobody pretends they don't have a relationship, that they don't have orders. On the contrary, this is a system based on hierarchical subjection. I mean, that's the way it's supposed to be. But the one we've had so far, and we've seen with hope that we might be able to do it. Some independent, maybe a little bit like state control systems, which are neither legislative nor executive or judicial... We've been trying to keep her to some degree of independence, independence. In this case, it didn't work out according to my judgment. It didn't work. And that's why I prefer a more honest system: simple hierarchical dependence The composition of the Ministry of Justice linked to the Ministry of Justice and it is clear who is the superior, who gives the instructions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u395	Another question, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u396	If you don't mind, I'll... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Shh. ... ...I will refer to this honesty, apoliticity and transparency... [[You're in a lot of pain.]] [[No one's gonna talk about apoliticity anymore.]] Professor, I'm gonna address this in the discussion because you're about to reprimand us... [[Good.]] And the other thing is that I don't volunteer twice. Unless something comes up... Professor, I would like to ask you something not as rapporteur. You can step away from... [[Senator's voice.]] Yes, the Senator rapporteur. [[I'll answer that.]] I'd like to address you as a professor of law. I'm sure you're a great authority, and I'd like to hear from you... You can always answer that this was not the subject of a committee meeting. However, I would like to ask your professor for an honest answer for me as a person who is not a lawyer. When I hear statements about how to pass such an important bill, as I listen to your professor's relations from the committee meeting, I understand that the opinions were, but the state That's how it sounded from the Professor's statement. You just read them and they weren't discussed thoroughly, they were discussed. You didn't have them analyzed. When I read the opinions of the Legal Bureau and other entities I'm not saying this as a lawyer. The opinion they gave... the opinionors, you might say, have huge reservations. Tell me as a professional and a professor. I hope I don't lose faith in the title of professorship. In your opinion, the creation of law in Poland should look that way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u397	Mr. Senator, I will answer you in your discussion. I'm sure I'll answer you. [[Good. Thank you.]] Because that's how we'd go beyond the report. I will express my views in the discussion. I'm afraid he'd be wasting his time, 'cause I'd only have ten minutes, or maybe I'd talk a little longer. I know what your theme is. I'm sure I'll answer something.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u398	Thank you. Senator Augustine. [[Oh, that genius...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u399	Professor, the issue of disclosure was raised here. Was there also a question of restrictions in this regard, which are based on the presumption of innocence?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u400	There was no such thing as presumption of innocence. [[Thank you for your honest answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u401	Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u402	Thank you very much. I would like to ask about the National Prosecutors' Council, which is mentioned in this Act. We've had the National Public Prosecutor's Council so far. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 42 the composition of this new body shall be indicated. This composition is narrower than it was in the present law, and the difference among others. is that in the present law there were representatives of Parliament And the Sejm, and the Senate. In the opinion of the prosecutor general, there are reservations about the proper lack of powers of this council in the light of the rules, the lack of tools to protect the independence of prosecutors, which is enshrined in its tasks. My question is, was it discussed, and if it wasn't, then... What is your attitude towards this change, which actually excludes representatives of Parliament at the National Public Prosecutor's Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u403	Mr. Senator, this was not the subject of our discussion. And as for the background, the ground, the motives, I think you're going to say more to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u404	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Senator Augustine again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u405	I have a similar question: did the discussion in the committee give the reasons for which the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Authority are clearly limited?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u406	No one's ever said that. And the current position of the National Prosecutor's Council was defended by a representative who spoke on behalf of the National Prosecutor's Council, but did not refer to this specific provision.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u407	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u408	Professor, let me ask you the following question. You have used the term "criminal" in relation to this construction, which will follow this law, which has been welcomed very positively by colleagues from the benches of Law and Justice. And I'd like to ask if it's that kind of bill or construction or some institution that's honest... in totalitarian systems it is said honestly: we have such a system and it suits us, gives us more power, and therefore we recognize that such a system is the best. Tell me if you think the concept of honesty has anything to do with the quality of the bill we're talking about, whether the category of honesty can determine... We may wonder whether the bill is good or not, whether it is correct or not, whether it is good for the citizens or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u409	Your assessment will probably be made by the senator, but I withdraw the word "honestly." Maybe it wasn't the most handy phrase. But that's what happens when I don't have everything written on my card, sometimes I use awkward words. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'll answer in the discussion. I will answer more in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u410	Is there another question for the senator? [[Senator Libicki...]] [[Can I go now, Marshal? Oh, you're still a marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u411	Senator rapporteur, as you understand the public interest. Art. 12 §2 provides that the powers to provide the media with information from the ongoing proceedings, given the public interest... What is the public interest and what is not? How do you understand public interest?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u412	Can I answer that already? [[Of course.]] Mr Marshal, as an experienced parliamentarians, is well aware that such a general concept as the public interest is interpreted in a specific context. You can't say in advance that things A, B, C are in the public interest And if it were to be written in the law, it would always be inexhaustible. And others are not in the public interest. The prosecutor, the judge, the parliamentarians themselves assess in a specific situation whether it is in the public interest or not in the public interest. It's an interpretation that the judge also takes into account. Social justice, public interest, common good are the concepts used by the Constitution. But it wasn't discussed, Mr. Marshal, so I went a little too far.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u413	Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u414	I will also go back to the public interest issue, because my attention has also drawn to the fact that this is a very broad concept. The answer of your professor would actually be satisfactory if not for the fact that under this law the Attorney General is a minister of justice and he can understand the public interest so that a specific political group, e.g. Law and Justice, had better electoral chances or continued to exercise power. Therefore, in my opinion, this raises doubts both for many authorities or opinion-makers and for example. Mine. In short, a politician understands the public interest differently than a person who is far removed from politics, so to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u415	But does the senator feel that the term "public interest" should not appear anywhere in the bill because it can be abused? [[It should be clarified.]] [[I don't know.]] Because it could be abused.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u416	I don't know, I just don't have the experience of making law anymore after all the years I've been here... [[We talked about this at the committee meeting.]] ...I can tell if I can predict the effects of how it works, but in the sense of building it, I'm afraid I have no experience.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u417	I fear, Professor, that neither political activity nor legislative activity nor educational activity without the notion of public interest in the modern democratic state is possible. But I'm sorry, this is actually out of our report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u418	Did... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[He's denying it again.]] Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u419	You mentioned the senator, Mr President, that Members had the opinions of the Attorney General. I'm curious because I'm trying to get to know them, too. There are only 33 critical remarks in this one. Did the rapporteur refer to each of these observations made by the prosecutor-general, which seems to be the most appropriate because of the practice of the law so far? And the other thing. If not, then is there any reference to the proposed article? 56 §4, which refers to the introduction of an electronic form of investigation and an indictment with an electronic signature? I ask because now the criminal procedure does not provide for this and these rules are simply inconsistent. Was it picked up?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u420	The rapporteur did not refer to the opinion of the Attorney General. Did you refer to the Minister? He'll answer on his own. We didn't talk about electronic procedures.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u421	Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u422	I would like to ask the question, because the Senator rapporteur is in such a role that actually... [[In a difficult role.]] It's a tough one, okay? At the same time, you're trying to account objectively. It's... [[Thank you.]] ...what happened at the committee meeting. And we would like, to be honest, to know the intentions of the applicants. As long as the members of the committee had the opportunity, as I understand it, there was an initiator... [[He was.]] ...but we don't have that option. The senator sends us with questions to the Minister, but the Minister is not only not the author of this project, but he is also personally interested, because, let's face it, he is incredibly increasing his competence. I would like to ask you, can you tell me, whether you agree with my opinion that we are in a very difficult situation, trying in such a short time, in this debate, after such a brief committee meeting in which not all of us have participated, to make an opinion so that we can vote on such an important matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u423	Senator, self-esteem is a subjective matter. I can't talk about it. I read what was possible, what was available to all of us, so I can talk about certain things. And since I'm referring to the Minister, it's because he certainly knows the whole project and certain intentions better, especially since, as far as I remember, he probably also appeared in the Seym and defended certain issues. As for the rapporteur, I can say that he mainly focused on polemics with certain doubts, which were expressed in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. He didn't say anything about everything.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u424	I'm sorry, I'm still ad vocem. Even if the professor, Senator rapporteur, does not know this law in depth, how can we, who are neither rapporteurs nor prominent lawyers, express an opinion on the bill in the vote at this meeting? Maybe we should give each other time, wait, give each of us time to get to know this law in depth, so that each of us can get to know each other's points. Well, that's what we're talking about, that's what we fought for in this debate at the committee meeting, and we're fighting now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u425	I listened to the senator's statements, but that's not a question, so I won't comment on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u426	Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u427	I share the senator's statement, because what I'm not asking, and I'm only asking about matters in my opinion that are important, I hear that these issues have slipped the committee's attention, they haven't been raised, no one has generally spoken about them. And I'm losing hope that I'm gonna hear another answer right now. One of the solutions criticised many times, even in the case of previous legislation, is that it is still possible to send a prosecutor to another prosecutor's office. The rules have always been so limited that it must have been under special conditions. But now, in my opinion, the D.A.'s independence is at stake by introducing a provision that without his consent for a period of 12 months a year... Is it more months? So even for the whole year, I understand, the prosecutor can be transferred, thus taking away his case and acting outside of trial on his independence. Was this issue raised?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u428	I'll be glad to see the senator: she was raised. According to the Legislative Bureau, the editorial awkwardness was noted because it is only 12 months in a year. But there were no other things to be said. And I would have a request to the senator to lay the blame on all the members of the committee, not just for the rapporteur's president, because everyone else also had the opportunity to show inquisitiveness. And, of course, in many places they showed inquisitiveness, but not all cases were certainly interesting enough. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u429	No further questions? Excuse me, you're still Marshal Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u430	Mr. Senator, does this bill eliminate the cadence and competitions at the D.A.'s office? [[Very well...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u431	Mr. Senator, I understand that the selection criteria are set in the bill and it's said who's calling the prosecutors. I didn't see any competitions there, so I guess... [[It's not gonna...]] But it wasn't discussed. I can say what... [[Mr. Senator, my question is simple.]] I simply replied: this was not the subject of discussion. [[I see. And the senator doesn't know if he's eliminating his term of office.]] Oh, that's different. Whether I know or not, I will answer in the discussion. This will be my assessment of the bill and what I know about it. [[It says here, like a bull, that he's eliminating.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u432	Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u433	Senator rapporteur, Senator Libicki. [[Then I'll go away.]] Senator, because I wasn't the one who raised the issue of general clauses... [[Voice from the room: What?]] General clauses. One of these general clauses is the functioning of the State as a reason for the prosecutor general, the national prosecutor or the prosecutor authorised by them to present the public authority Here we have clarity, which means the concept of a public authority But also people, and I understand that this is about individuals, information about the prosecution's proceedings. How do you understand this notion of state functioning? That's one thing. Because I understand that this is one of the reasons why a minority request was made. Secondly, what could threaten the application of such a general clause as the functioning of the State in the event of material leakage and data from external proceedings. ♪ 'Cause I do ♪ It's an extremely dangerous solution. Mr. Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u434	I want to say this: I think maybe. The threat is that the investigative material will be introduced to unauthorized persons and, as far as I know, to such situations, we've been dealing with in the last 10 years. This is the first case. And I would like to say that this was the case between 2005 and 2007. And the second point that you spoke about, Minister Klich, which is the general clauses, is, in my opinion, the main point of argument from the Legal Bureau's opinion. It is a situation in which we can very much understand the concepts in this law. I will refer again to what I was talking about, namely to some inconsistencies, about which Minister Święczkowski said as about the inconsistencies intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u435	Are there any more questions? [[Oh, yeah.]] Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u436	Thank you very much. I also have a question for Senator Libicki, who referred to the years 2005 and 2007, which we remember very well, that is, the years of operation of this system, which will actually be restored today. And I would like to ask the senator whether the matter was raised at the committee meeting, that even if the current authority, which has returned after years, from which I understand, has very good memories, unlike this side of the room... Has the case been raised that it can better simply strengthen the current prosecutor, in this arrangement, which is, improve the law that works if there are reservations, and keep the prosecutor's independence from the current political power? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u437	I'll answer the senator as follows. I do not have the impression that the Member representing the Members of the applicant or the representatives of the government will have the intentions that the senator is talking about in this regard, that is to say, to remove certain shortcomings in the current systems of the prosecutor's office if they think that they are.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u438	I'll see... Because in my opinion, it's the easiest way to strengthen the power of the D.A.'s office by improving this bill... [[It's a discussion. It's not a question.]] Please answer: were there such votes at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u439	The votes were so, but the result of the vote in the committee was clear that they were votes that would not be supported by the majority.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u440	Are there any more questions? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u441	It is, of course, our duty to examine carefully the compatibility of the provisions of each law with the constitution and law of the European Union. I would ask you to answer: whether, possibly to what extent was this matter discussed by the committee? Has the committee considered these issues? In particular, I would ask you to answer the question whether the provisions of this law do not infringe the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 the Constitution states that public authorities cannot collect, collect and share information about citizens other than those necessary in a democratic state of law. Of course, I ask this in the context of this mentioned disclosure of data so-called to others. This is a question for the rapporteur. [[Well, maybe I'll give you a quick answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u442	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u443	I have no connection between what the senator has read about the constitutional article and the prosecution's activities, because it is her task to obtain news and information in a manner that, of course, is consistent with the rules governing its activities. So I understand that this is a question. rather in the context of the Act on Operations we discussed earlier. And then that's the question that makes sense, in my opinion. But I'm gonna worry the senator because no one's said anything about it. On the subject of a possible link with European Union law, the rapporteur mentioned that this was also the subject of a question in the Sejm and that no one pointed out any links. However, it has been pointed out that in the European Union it prevails As far as I remember, that's what we said, one of the debaters said: the model we have so far prevails, and that our new model will be different from those countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u444	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u445	Yes, a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur on the general clauses. Mr. Senator said they're conflicting. Can you show it, give us an example of these contradictions? [[About what?]] I understand that general clauses are some general concepts that are included in the Act. In law language, I think that's what it's called.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u446	As far as contradictions are concerned, e.g. Senator Augustine spoke 12 months a year. And such cases, which the Legislative Office called faults or lack of consistency, are in this project a whole series.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u447	Thank you. Are there any other... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Can I say something?]] You're welcome. [[Will the senator agree that I will?]] [[Am I going to say yes?]] [[Yes.]] [[But I'm also addressing you, Mr. Senator, that's a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u448	Well, I'm afraid Senator Libicki misunderstood the question, because the rule that says that up to 12 months a year you can delegate a prosecutor has nothing to do with the general clause. A general clause is a concept, e.g. public interest. [[Oh, yeah, yeah.]] Oh, this is an example of using a general clause. In this law, such a clause is actually used. And the discussion about what might be this business, of course, was.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u449	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u450	I'm the one with the general clauses... Namely, because we've talked a lot about them... [[But I'm sorry. The common good, too, if it's... yeah? Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] Yeah, yeah. [[The common good, the public interest... Thank you.]] We talked about them quite a bit. And we were just talking about the social interest. If I remember correctly, so it is written in the act As a flood for which there is no disciplinary action against a prosecutor who has seriously violated the rules of conduct, which means that he has abandoned or done something that is not in accordance with the rules of art. I have a question for the minority rapporteur, Senator Libicki: in this case, do you also think 'Cause I think it's a big threat. That this is a threat and an excuse to justify prosecutors who do not behave in accordance with the rules of art and standards of their profession, against disciplinary responsibility? What's it like, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u451	If I am to say my opinion here, I believe that we will have to deal with this situation when some justifications are sought out and they may be, so to speak, applied in connection with this, I would say, non-essential criteria. This is a formula that, in my opinion, is going to allow this kind of solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u452	Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u453	It's hard for us to get over the article. 12, which was probably the subject of an in-depth examination at the committee's meeting, even in view of such opinions appearing in several places, more or less categorically formulated. And that opinion should make us all more sensitive. The point is that this is the wording of the article. 12 will make it possible to violate the good name of any given person with impunity. Whether you are senators or minister or rapporteur Did they refer to this opinion? Because this is, you can say, a very important charge, a fundamental human right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u454	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u455	If you don't mind, I'll answer from the spot. I'm sorry. 'Cause it's a short question. I've already told you many times that art. In particular, it is about making information available on the ongoing case Of course, it was the subject of our debate. That's what you picked up, Senator Klich and Senator Zientarski, and that, of course, aroused interest. The quote from this opinion, which the senator quoted, is simply any interpretation, because it is assumed that this provision provides grounds for impunity. The aim is to criminalise all state offices, i.e. in accordance with the rules. If it's unpunished, it means there's a permit for unlawful action. I don't see such permission here. This is already an overinterpretation or perhaps an excessive fear of the author of this opinion. There is no incentive for impunity from these provisions. Well, let's... let's assume the good will of the legislator. We're all part of... [[But, Mr President, the will and intentions of the legislator are expressed in the explanatory memorandum. And it's easy to justify... you'll find the words...]] Permission to impunity? [[...that a prosecutor cannot be held liable for such an act as is referred to in this opinion.]] I see what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u456	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u457	Mr. Marshal, I have questions for the minority rapporteur, Senator Libicki. Mr. Senator, I have three questions. I don't know if I'm gonna ask you one at a time? [[One at a time.]] I'll be right back. According to Professor Seweryński, you were not familiar with these opinions. Traditionally, it has become a new secular tradition here: an opinion of ourselves, and we make our own. I have a question for the senator. In the opinion of the Prosecutor General, there is the following passage: "The changes in the organizational structure of the prosecutor's office consist primarily in replacing the current Public Prosecutor's Office by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office by regional prosecutors. The analysis of the whole of the project in comparison with the draft law, which introduces the law on the prosecutor's office, indicates that the real reason for this change is not organisational or substantive, but the aim of carrying out the verification of the staff of the current units. That's what the Attorney General says. I would ask Senator Libicki to comment on whether he knows this opinion or whether it was discussed at the committee meeting and what the senator thinks about this paragraph I read.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u458	I can say yes. At the committee meeting, Mr Bogdan Klich's entire argument and mine, because I joined the motion to reject the law that Mr Klich had made, was largely pointing out what the senator had put forward, recalling a passage from that opinion. All I can tell you is that the only difference in opinion in this case was your representative of the Independent Attorney's Association of Attorneys, Ad Vocem, which caused some surprise. In her speech, she emphasized basically only the financial aspect, the low earnings of the prosecution's representatives, which also, as I said, caused my surprise.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u459	Thank you. One more question? [[Mr. Marshal, I've had three questions, which is why I'd ask two more if you'd allow me.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u460	Senator Libicki. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask your personal opinion, because it was probably not the subject of the committee. I'm not a lawyer, but if I listen to what's said, I read those opinions and remember what Minister Ziobro was accused of... [[But acquitted!]] Wait, wait, wait. ...and he didn't stand before the Court of State, and I note that in the prosecution, there were many such passages in the charges against the Minister. Maybe it's the whole thing. That have been reproduced in the draft of this law. Would you mind referring to that impression of mine? What do you think? What is your knowledge of this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u461	Mr. Senator, all I can tell you is that I feel a lot like your senator. If we're talking about impressions, then mine is similar or even, I'd say, same as the Senator's impression on this case. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a third question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u462	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u463	And one last question. Mr. Senator, this is what I need for short answers at a time when we're here to discuss, but also about what we're doing here. Please tell me also about your assessment, because I know that this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations, please tell me in human terms, not in legal terms, what the citizen of the Republic will have from the implementation of these laws. [[Fear.]] No, no, this is where I asked... What am I gonna tell my neighborhood friend who's gonna ask me, who's gonna say, "Listen, tell me what's gonna be better for me?" Mr. Minister already knows what's better... empty laughter. But I'm asking, if you don't mind, senator. When you step into the podium and we ask you that, then you can react with an empty laughter, too. Thank you. [[How many beers will that neighborhood buddy be after?]] What's gonna happen? [[How many beers is it gonna be?]] After as many as the senator's ever been. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u464	You're welcome, Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u465	Mr. Senator, I think that if you asked a government side that wasn't the initiator of this bill, although it's so far away... It identifies so strongly with this project that I have the impression that the government side is the author of this project, although the project is parliamentary. And probably the government side would say that as a result of this bill, we're going to have a more efficient prosecutor's office. But that's the kind of fitness I'd be afraid of at the D.A.'s office. And if you're asking me if I'm afraid, I'm saying yes, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u466	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u467	Thank you very much. Because I'm a beginner, and in addition... [[Senator.]] ...Senator, I'm sorry. Plus, I'm not an educated lawyer... Yeah, but we have two Senators rapporteurs, experienced and senate, and as lawyers. I would like to know whether this is normal and whether such a fast, accelerated procedure is a matter of saying that it has been in the countries of the European Union. And in any country... [[Voice from the room: Yes, in Russia.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I am talking about the European Union, I am not talking about Russia, Mr Senator. And in any country, in any country in recent years, have there been such changes at such a rapid pace? And second question. Has the Senate taken such resolutions, actually political, let's face it, at such a rapid pace? This is a question for both senators of the rapporteurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u468	Professor... But from the spot?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u469	Yeah, yeah. I thought Senator Libicki wanted to answer first. If I may, I will say that I did not conduct legal comparative studies as to what the prosecution in other countries looks like. We only spoke at the committee meeting about it. In many countries of the European Union, there is no such model as is now to be introduced in our country. This is the first case. Yeah, and the senator's question, which has been replicated here many times in various statements, about the speed of action... Let me repeat: this should be addressed to the Senate Marshal, who decides how to proceed in this House.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u470	Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u471	To answer Senator Zdrojewska, I want to say yes. I've been a parliamentarian for ten years. And as far as this type of system regulation is concerned, I have not met with such a rapid process on systemic issues at least until the beginning of this term of office. The only situation that could be said to be of even similar importance was the issue of open pension funds, changes in the rules on open pension funds. However, I believe that this was not a matter of a systemic nature. Someone could possibly raise this example, but I think it is a very different matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u472	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u473	Mr. Senator, Professor, after your last statement, I had doubts as to whether there was even a written justification for this bill in the committee's material. It's in this case that's extremely important. Have you prepared this so that the senators, apart from getting to know such a huge material, And that's only half of them could at least know the justification for the laws they were working on?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u474	Mr. Senator, everyone was familiar with the material they had at their disposal as part of their capabilities. And as you know, I don't know. However, it was undoubtedly helpful that there was a rapporteur who could be asked questions and he talked more about these assumptions. It should also be said that there was an in-depth written opinion of the Legislative Office, which referred to the whole course of the legislative procedure in this case and which concerned the Law on Introductory Provisions. There was also a very broad oral opinion, in which the legislative procedure in this case was less referred to and which concerned the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u475	I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal. I was at that first part of the meeting and, of course, I have heard several times said by a representative of the Legislative Office that it is a highly incomplete opinion due to a complete lack of time to prepare it. [[Are we talking eight?]] [[That was eight o'clock.]] Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u476	Are they... Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u477	I have another question for Senator Libicki. Namely, with regard to staff policy, the Minister of Justice of the Prosecutor General obtains more freedom, as was mentioned at the committee meeting. If I remember correctly, the expression with greater flexibility in staff policy has emerged the concept of flexibility. How do you feel about that? Because once again there is a general clause in this case, which says that, in particularly justified cases, although we do not have a definition of particularly justified cases, the Minister of Public Prosecutor General may withdraw from the competition procedure when a prosecutor is appointed for the first prosecutor's office, and there is no need for competitions at all when calling for further posts. What do you think this could lead to, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u478	Mr. Senator, I would focus on that one word that I think is symbolic in your speech. This is the word flexibility. Well, it seems to me that, in fact, under this expression of flexibility, there is simply a freely conducted or even any personal policy. Besides, if the main assumption is that the prosecution is to be subpoenaed by the Minister of Justice as the Attorney General, and you are directly withdrawn from the word "honestly." But maybe he'd use a less powerful or weaker term here. I see no reason that, in this honesty, the other prosecutorial positions are not on the basis of this, let's say, honesty or this less powerful word cast.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u479	Senator Spider, then Senator Gazweda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u480	I have such a question for the senator, Professor Sewerinski. Here were questions and impressions, and flexibility. Have these concepts and topics been discussed in the committee? [[The flexibility was.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u481	We were talking about different general concepts, general clauses, of course we were also talking about the possibility of interpretation difficulties, as in any law where such concepts exist.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u482	Thank you. Senator Gazweda. [[We weren't talking about anything that wasn't there.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u483	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for the senator of minority proposals. Questions of the type, whether something is normal or not, I'm not gonna ask them because they're just in case Such a serious bill, about the prosecutor's office, should not be asked in the High House. I have a question for the senator of the rapporteur whether you were entitled to answer any questions... or whether you were entitled to present your own feelings or impressions that the senator was talking about here. Because I think the object and the matter we're discussing doesn't cover it in any way. I also have a question for the senator as to whether the procedures for dealing with this law were discussed at the committee meeting. Because that's the question that the senator answered, too, and I think... that's not the subject of the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u484	Mr. Senator, I think if you stick to it closely... Perhaps not all of the questions that are raised here are very closely related to the request of the minority, which I am a representative of, but I believe that if someone is the rapporteur of the committee or rapporteur of the minority proposal, he does not have to, but he can answer such questions. If they fall, I just answer them. That's all I can do in this... That was the first question. And the other... Mr. Senator would be kind... [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u485	...repeat. You're welcome, Senator, to repeat.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u486	Mr. Senator, I wanted to ask you if the matter of the procedure for dealing with this law was even discussed at the committee meeting. The senator answered that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u487	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u488	Of course she was, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u489	Thank you very much. I don't see any more people coming forward to ask the senators any more questions. Thank you very much. The draft laws have been submitted by Members. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the laws under consideration and present the government's position? Welcome to the Minister's meeting. You're welcome, Minister. Minister... My name slipped my mind... Minister Bogdan Święczkowski, please. Minister, do you wish to speak? From there? That's right over there. [[Voice from the room: From the seat, because the Minister is injured...]] But here we were supposed to prepare... If there's any longer questions, we'll organize something.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u490	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! First of all, I would like to express my sincere apologies if I were to commit any misconduct towards your senators, but this is the first time I have performed in front of the Senate of the Republic of Poland... [[Talking in the O.R.]] So if this happens, I apologize in advance that it will happen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present very briefly the position of the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the bill adopted by the Polish Sejm, which was proceded by the honourable states. Well, we are in full support of this bill. We stand in the position that the prosecution is part of the executive authority, is not indicated in the Constitution as another authority or body of law enforcement or as an authority of control, and therefore, as part of the executive authority, it should pursue the objectives of ensuring the security of citizens in the field of criminal prosecution and the protection of the rule of law. The consequence of such a statement and recognition that the prosecution is part of the executive authority is the further structure of the law and legal provisions which clearly indicate the procedures for action, the structure of the prosecutor's office, the principle of its functioning and the responsibility of the prosecutor general The Minister of Justice. It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, that, according to this new law, the law on the prosecution is very clearly indicated responsibility for how the prosecution works, what the prosecution's actions are in the field of criminal prosecution, how the task of upholding the rule of law is carried out. According to these laws, the prosecutor general and the minister of justice are responsible for this, and there is no doubt about it. Unfortunately, in the current state of law and under the current, repeatedly amended Act on the Prosecutor's Office of 1985, there is no such responsibility and, above all, there is no parliamentary control, i.e. the House States, the States of Senators, over the activities of prosecutors and prosecutors. Thanks to the introduction of this new law on the prosecution, you will gain the right to ask questions, to interpel, to request answers to these questions, to invite the prosecutor general, the national prosecutor or the deputy prosecutor general to your meetings. Therefore, it will be possible to directly control the action of the Attorney General if you consider that the Attorney General does not carry out his tasks or in any way exceeds his powers, you can first and foremost lead to the appeal of the Minister of Justice and therefore also of the Attorney General. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, the Attorney General is always and everywhere responsible for prohibited acts committed during the execution of his office and no provision of law, one or another, excludes the criminal liability of the Attorney General or of the public prosecutors of the administrative units of the prosecutor's office or IPN prosecutors for breaking or crossing the law. It is very important that this sounds in my speech. We support this law, as well as the provisions introducing the law on the prosecutor's office. We believe that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland respected all principles of legislation, the laws were passed correctly. Of course, they contain Polish constitution and European law-compliant legal standards designed to effectively, multifacetedly, combat and prosecute crime in Poland, in particular the most dangerous organised crime of an economic nature, as well as international or cross-border nature. We support this law in its entirety and ask the honourable states to take such action so that this new law on the prosecutor's office can enter into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u491	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to a government representative related to the items on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? First things first, Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u492	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have already asked this question to the Senator of the rapporteur today, but the matter I have asked was not the subject of the committee's deliberations, and it seems very important to me. Namely, it is a possible conflict of interest in a situation in which the Attorney General will appear before the Constitutional Tribunal, giving an opinion on the constitutionality of the bill drawn up in the Ministry of Justice. Is it not a concern that judging itself as if its work would not be in conflict of interest? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Bogdan Święczkowski: Ladies and gentlemen...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u493	Wait a minute, Minister, I'm sorry, but there's gonna be a bunch of questions. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u494	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I have a request that you explain to us why this express speed of proceeding this bill. Is there anything the senators don't know about? Did Mr. D.A. Seremet get sick? Is there something going on that forces such a pace? Well, in the case of the Constitutional Court Act, it could be understood with good will that there is some temporary coercion, the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal force us to amend the Police Act before 6 February. And are there any such indications in the case of this law? I don't have that knowledge, and that's why I'm asking the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u495	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome. [[Maybe in the moment I hear the answer to the second question, because I'd like to refer to it.]] Well, you're welcome, because after three questions, I'll be addressing the Minister. Who's next in line? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u496	Minister, is there a model similar to that we are discussing in the countries of the old European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u497	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u498	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress that I am the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, a representative of the government, and this law was not a government project, it is a parliamentary project. The Ministry of Justice supported applicants with substantive, legislative knowledge, but given that it is a parliamentary project, I cannot comment on the reasons, answer why the law is being processed in such a period. The only reason I can be happy about this is because, in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, the sooner the new law on the prosecutor's office comes into force, the better. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the first question, I would like to say that, of course, such a situation can take place. Therefore, the provisions introducing the possibility of acting instead of the Attorney General's Attorney General, which, as you know very well, you know that the law will be the prosecutors of strict sense, i.e. professionals, not politicians. They will be able to present the position of prosecutor general of the prosecutor's office of the Republic of Poland, which does not have to refer to the actions of the prosecutor general as Minister of Justice. As far as we are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the models of functioning of the prosecutor's office are similar to the Polish model, I can say that in the countries of the European Union it is different in this respect. We have not done such detailed research, but we can say that the Austrian model is very similar, where the Minister of Justice is directly subject to the prosecution and prosecutors, and the Minister of Justice may issue instructions on the content of the proceedings to the prosecutors under his authority. Ladies and gentlemen, the same is true, for example. in Germany, the same is true in France, the same is true in other European countries, although there is no such model And I think that's already been said here. In which the Attorney General would at the same time be Minister of Justice. [[Yeah, that's it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth noting that this model was functioning in pre-war Poland, where the Chief Prosecutor was also Minister of Justice. [[Sanitation.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is also worth drawing the attention of the senators to the fact that very advanced work has already been carried out on the European Union law introducing the European Public Prosecutor's Office. If you were to lean on the draft regulation, you would see that the independence of the prosecutors of the European Public Prosecutor's Office will be very limited and that the authority in charge of the European Public Prosecutor's Office will have the right to issue its instructions. During the debate on the European Public Prosecutor's Office model, a number of opinions appeared on the independence of prosecutors in the European Public Prosecutor's Office, but these opinions lost and selected a model similar to that proposed by the Polish Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u499	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u500	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal! I will take advantage of the opportunity that the Minister once served as head of the agency, and I would like to ask you about the article. 50... [[What agency?]] [[What agency?]] ...the Homeland Security Agency. And I'd like to ask... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Sorry about the shortcut. I thought it was so obvious to everyone that I didn't need to... [[Voice from the room: Now the agencies are...]] [[Mr. Senator, you're running out of time. It's been 30 seconds.]] I'd like to ask you this. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 57 §1 and 2 of the proposed law are that the Attorney General, the National Prosecutor or the Prosecutor authorised by one or another of the Prosecutors has the right to inspect the material collected in the course of operational control. [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute.]] Yes? [[Then ask me a question.]] How does this apply to a situation where even service supervisors do not have the right to access the material collected in the framework of operational control? What are the extraordinary powers of the Attorney General and the National Attorney? That's what amazes me the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u501	Thank you. Mr. Senator Marek Pak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u502	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a request: could you bring the Senate closer to the most important solutions to the new law on the prosecution's office, which makes it the law on the 21st century prosecutor's office? These are solutions that will better combat crime, especially new types of crime, organised crime, online crime, terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u503	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u504	I look in the vocabulary contained in the article. 3 Clarification of the concept of other persons referred to in Article. 12. The lack of precision... Does that mean that for example. I may be that other person and the Attorney General will inform me... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because that's not the concept in the law. I'm surprised it's not in the vocabulary. What's the reason? Why is that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u505	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u506	I'll answer from the end. I do not know why the Polish Parliament has adopted such a provision, but I can refer to its content in terms of legal standards. Ladies and gentlemen, the provision concerning another person, which is subject to the various conditions laid down in Article. 12, allows authorised persons to provide such information to each person in an extraordinarily situation if it is relevant and important for the security of the State, as the article says. I'll help with the bill so you don't get misled... This is the case: if such information can be relevant for the security of the State and its proper functioning. Ladies and gentlemen, in any event, responsibility for whom and to what extent information will be provided will be borne by the Attorney General or other prosecutors who will provide such information. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth pointing out that art. 12 does not exclude the standard from Article. 156 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which does not refer to the provision of information, but to the provision of files, may involve the provision of information. It follows from this article that the file may be made available during the preparatory procedure, because that is what we are talking about if there is no need to safeguard the proper course of proceedings or the protection of the interests of the State. As I say, this art. 12 of this article of the Code of Criminal Procedure does not exclude. He's complementary to the article. 12. Therefore, if there is a need to provide information from the ongoing proceedings, e.g. about the act of terror being prepared, which the prosecutor will take in the course of his own investigation, in the course of a terrorist's interrogation, that is currently a mistake. probably unintended, but it was introduced in 2009 on the occasion of an amendment of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office No prosecutor, including the Attorney General, has the right to provide this information e.g. FBI liaison officer, who is in Poland or a representative of another friendly service. And that's what it is. If you're looking for an example, It's a different person. If the U.S. Attorney took information that an assassination attempt was to take place on the senator who asked the question, and the assassination was to take place within a few or a dozen... [[Please don't make such a suggestion.]] I'm sorry, but I'd like to... [[And who would want to kill Augustine?]] [[Don't interrupt and don't interrupt.]] Mr. Senator, I'm not suggesting anything. Mr. Senator asked if there could be such a situation that Mr. Senator would have received information. That's how I understood the question. So let me give you an example... [[That's what I've heard.]] ...a situation in which the senator could receive such information. So that it will always be up to the public prosecutor, the national prosecutor or the authorised prosecutor, to whom and to what extent he will provide such information related to the ongoing preparatory proceedings. It is also worth emphasising the fact that this provision, the standard art. 12 does not exclude the law on the protection of classified information. So if the information in question were covered by... were, as it is commonly said, categorized, it would only be possible to pass it on to a qualified person who has access to classified information. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, since the suggestion has been made several times here that the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobro, has committed a violation of the law or a breach of the law when the act of pre-trial procedure was made available to the former member of the National Security Council, President Jarosław Kaczyński, I would like to stress that the proceedings in this case have ended in remission in the absence of the marks of the prohibited act. There is, therefore, no mention of any, ladies and gentlemen, of any breach of the law fulfilling the marks of the offence. As far as the article is concerned. 57 Law on the Prosecutor's Office, it is really, ladies and gentlemen, if you consider the current Act on the Prosecutor's Office... In the Act on the Prosecutor's Office currently in force, Article. 3, is the subject of the supervision of the prosecutor over operational and cognitive activities, which are detailed in the regulation issued on the basis of the current Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Standards contained in Article. 57, in particular §2, may be said to materialise the said review, the said supervision of the prosecutor. This is about the possibility of exercising not only formal but also material control. If we want any other body to oversee the special forces, and for the last eight years when another government coalition ruled, no attempt has been made to create such an independent body, although such suggestions have been made... This is where the D.A. takes over. In the course of strictly defined activities, i.e. so-called. Special operations and operational control, which is, as it is commonly said, a wiretap, the prosecutor can verify his knowledge if an irregularity is found by getting insight into the materials. It may determine whether the check is being carried out correctly or incorrectly and, if incorrectly, to what extent the legislation has been infringed. About... I'll be honest with you, I don't understand your point of view. If the senator could explain... Because in §1 there is no mention of surgical and cognitive activities. As for modern solutions in the law adopted by the Polish Parliament, above all, ladies and gentlemen, This will also be the answer to other questions that have been raised here, and we are creating centres for combating economic and financial crime. They are to be created at the level of the new regional prosecutors, which, instead of doing business, as is currently the case, are to focus on combating the most serious threats. This will also lead to the creation or development of specializations in the prosecutor's office. Prosecutors will specialize in particular criminal prosecutions. It's very difficult to be an excellent law enforcement specialist, e.g. criminal cases related to ransom kidnappings, while conducting a proper and competent investigation into a major scandal. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we are raising the level of functioning of the departments to combat organised crime at national level, so that these departments can focus on combating international, cross-border, terrorist, cyberspace-related crime and causing serious, serious losses in the property of natural persons or legal persons. There is much more to these changes, Ladies and gentlemen, and they also concern the possibility of documenting and conducting procedural activities in electronic form. I cannot quite agree with the statements made by some states senators that there is now no legal option to implement this provision. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at the moment, the process of digitising the files of pre-trial proceedings in the current prosecutor's office, in the District Attorney's Office and in the Public Prosecutor's Office is already in place, and a few weeks ago, at the request of the Public Prosecutor General, I supported it in order to obtain funds from the European Union to digitise all the files of pre-trial proceedings in the District Attorney's Office. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to be prepared for challenges in this area and we need to create such modern tools to prosecute crime and accuse criminals so that criminals do not get too far in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u507	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Jarosław Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u508	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have already asked you this, I hope you will calm me down and explain this: what is the purpose and purpose of this change in the name of the prosecutor's office from appeals to regionals? Is this just gonna be a sign hanger? And please calm me down if this isn't about a hidden review of the D.A.'s office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u509	Thank you very much. Any of you guys... Please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u510	Minister, I am following your speech and you have actually said that to these other people, that is to say to any person, information on specific matters can be made available. That's what the §1 says. And there is indeed such a condition: if this is relevant to state security. Is in the legal system 'Cause it's not in the vocabulary. Is there a definition of what it means that something is important for the security of the state? Would you be so kind as to point out where something like this is so you can lean on something?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u511	Thank you very much. Marshal Maria Panczyk-Podziej, please, asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u512	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the longer I live, the more I come to the conclusion that modern times, whether in politics or in the media or even in everyday life, feed on I don't want to say that I'm lying. A kind of understanding of the truth. The truth is what I say, but not necessarily what my adversary says. What's my point? Answer me, is provocation understood in terms of truth or lies? Or is it another category? Should it be used in procedural activities or not? Because we've dealt with her many times in the past. And I'm talking about the public interest. What's it gonna be like now? Will provocation be allowed and applied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u513	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u514	Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the reason for the reorganisation and winding up of the prosecution's appeal proceedings is concerned, it seems to me that I have already said on this point that this is going to lead to the transformation of the appeal prosecutors, which are basically prosecutors focused on supervision in court proceedings, visits, mirrors, administrative activities, in centres for combating economic and financial crime. And this is the ratio of legis liquidation or transformation of the prosecution's appeal offices into regional prosecutors, and on this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, quite rightly and logically, the legislator has changed the names of the prosecutors so that the entire system of the prosecution's names is consistent with a certain principle. And here this principle is a geographical criterion: district, regional, national prosecutors' office. At present, to the level of the district attorney's office, there are territorial, geographical criteria, at the level of the appeal prosecutor's office and the general prosecutor's office, and functional criteria related to the degree of this prosecutor's office in the hierarchy. And the nickname was adjusted to make it uniform. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there is no hidden verification here. Hidden verification of whether or not any verification would involve the need to release any persons or prosecutors from the service, and here there is no question of releasing any prosecutors. I, ladies and gentlemen, became the subject of verification in 2010 at the sitting of the parliamentary committee of that time, the prosecutor, and also today the prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor's Office, Beata Mik, who was then a representative of the prosecutor's office, pointed out that that law of 2009 was of a verifiable nature and led to the dispatch to rest, among others. Me and 30 prosecutors. But this law does not force any of the prosecutors to retire, any prosecutors may carry out their duties, and if the prosecutor-general, at the request of the national prosecutor, considers that the prosecutor should strengthen any other unit of the prosecutor's office with his energy, commitment, knowledge or experience, he will be given a different position of office, with the previous honorable title and remuneration in his post. In my opinion, this is no verification, but it is the ability to creatively exploit many prosecutors who have so far been involved in not prosecuting crimes or upholding the rule of law, but administrative work. Or management. Ladies and gentlemen, examples of other non-acute concepts... Well, for example. In the ABW Act, and I was the head of the ABW, so this example is the closest to me to saying that the ABW is competent for crimes affecting the security of the state or in which significant economic interests of the State have been exposed. And such inconspicuous concepts in the field of state security, social interest, social harm... We can find that in the criminal code. E.g. The public interest arises on the occasion of the possibility for the prosecutor to include a criminal offence prosecuted by a private public prosecution; also in the case of a defamation offence, such vague terms appear and there is no legal definition of them. Besides, I can tell you that to this day there is no legal definition of a public place in Poland. You recognized the law amending the Police and Special Services Act, so that in this context these are very interesting questions. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as business is concerned, this is a matter of public interest... No prosecutor's behavior or action solely in the public interest, as the countertype from the article says. 137, he can't depenalize any prosecutor's behavior. And no such statement is depenalizing the behaviour of any prosecutor, or the Attorney General. If the prosecutor commits a crime, he will have full responsibility if he goes through the proper procedure. It is worth noting that the powers of the Attorney General do not concern disciplinary proceedings, so the Attorney General If there is no immunity other than parliamentary or senatorial immunity, he shall be liable for offences such as ordinary citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u515	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, I would like to point out that I have not received an answer to my question.]] Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u516	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, my question is related to one of the interviews you gave in the course of discussing the bill at that time. You then used the phrase that the entry into force of this law would improve cooperation between the special forces and the prosecutor's office. I'd like you to elaborate on that. What kind of service did you have in mind? And what will this improvement of cooperation be about? That's one thing. Secondly, can we conclude from this statement that cooperation based on the current rules, so to speak, is not at an appropriate level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u517	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jarosław Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u518	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to raise such a problem. That's the question I'd like to ask. There are all sorts of bad things in every environment. The D.A. is also a human being. He's a felony. Or maybe, excuse me, commit a crime. I would like the Minister to make an assessment of the effectiveness of eliminating or restricting the activities of these so-called black sheep who commit crimes in the environment in the light of the rules in force... It reminds me of a film called "Long," which described the real situation that the prosecutor was working with the criminal community. How will this work under the new rules? Do you mind if I... [[Minister, it's been a minute.]] Is there any way to protect...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u519	Thank you very much. Marshal Grażyna Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u520	Thank you very much. Minister, we have so far been accustomed to such a process of further laws, that based on opinion and ministry, and the Legislative Office we had prepared a summary... of the prepared opinion. Today, your legislative expert in the specific comments include: notes that, in view of the short time limit for the analysis of the content of the Act adopted yesterday, these observations are limited to the most serious legislative shortcomings observed. In particular, they ignore the purely linguistic reservations, part of the shortcomings of the law consisting in the use of incorrect terminology or the lack of internal consistency resulting from the determination of the same designations by means of different expressions or wordings. Deeper consideration would also require a question And it's more serious than that. Respect for the guarantees contained in the existing legislation relating to the regulated sphere... [[It's been a minute. Excuse me.]] Then save me for the next question, and I'll finish... [[And the question? Because I didn't hear the question.]] But I wanted to quote the exact record... [[But, Senator, we're asking questions. He can't quote because it would take ten minutes. Ask me a question.]] Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask... [[You're welcome.]] I would therefore like to ask the Minister: when did you receive the said bill because you say it is a parliamentary project That you could prepare for today's committee and senate meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u521	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u522	Dear Senator, the bill appeared on the Parliament's website on 28 December 2015 and was available on the pages of the Polish Sejm. I mean. Both laws. About the rest of the senator's statement. It is not for me to judge the quality of the work of the legislators of the Polish Parliament or the quality of the work of the legislators of the Senate of the Republic, so I will not speak on this subject. As regards the cooperation of prosecutors with special services, I can say yes, ladies and gentlemen, that so far the principles of cooperation between the prosecution and special services have been based on informal relations, informal requests. If a prosecutor involved in the fight against organised crime of a criminal or economic nature needed support And it's often happened here. E.g. In case of planning arrests of defendants... suspected or suspected, I apologize, not accused, he informally had to ask a police representative or special forces to do such surgical and cognitive activities, including. in identifying the whereabouts of the resources at the disposal of the person concerned, he had to informally ask the police or the special forces to do so. And the ministry may have accepted or refused such requests. If, in turn, this diagnosis of surgical and cognitive diagnosis was carried out in an incorrect or incomplete manner, it could lead to a series of tragedies. However, as you may well remember, unfortunately, this is why there has been a tragedy in Magdalena, where incorrect or incorrect or late identification of the whereabouts of the bandits led to the explosion of explosives and the death of police officers. Of course, we can make theoretical considerations, but in my opinion it is better that these principles are legally, transparently, clearly and clearly regulated in the law and in the implementing regulation of this law. Because it's worth remembering that when it comes to art. 57 §2... Detailed rules for the control of the prosecutor over the operational and cognitive activities indicated in this paragraph will be based on a regulation of the Minister of Justice based on Article. 36 §4. And this will certainly improve, allow for seamless cooperation between the services and the prosecution, as well as the police, because in many aspects First of all, the police are the services that they carry out for the prosecution's purposes these surgical and cognitive activities. You're all talking about operational control, Internet data. I listened to your discussion yesterday. In fact, in everyday life, at the level of district attorneys, these operations are reduced to identifying certain places, certain people, determining data related to these persons, their assets, etc., etc. Of course, the most up-to-date media are the most important elements of operational and cognitive activities, but unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, despite the work on the Act on Operational and Reconciliation Activities, which were conducted at the beginning of the term of office of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. I've been involved in this work myself... Unfortunately, the work on this law has been discontinued, it has not led to the creation of a coherent, clear and public-friendly law on surgical and cognitive activities. Ladies and gentlemen, as a prosecutor with many years of experience, and as well as the former head of special service, I can say one thing: unfortunately, many prosecutors and judges, as well as lawyers, do not understand the specifics of the operational and exploratory activities, in particular with regard to procedural activities carried out in the course of preparatory proceedings or judicial proceedings. With regard to the effectiveness of the elimination of black sheep in the judicial environment or in the prosecution, I can say, ladies and gentlemen, that such data is not available to the Ministry of Justice, because we do not have the possibility of formal law for such data, for example. from the prosecutor's office to get it. This is another drawback of this current law. Of course we can ask, but we don't have to get that answer. I can say otherwise: in my experience as Vice Minister of Justice for the past three months, it appears that the number of complaints against prosecutors and judges is very high. Some of these complaints seem irrational at first or as part of a statement, but some of them whether the conclusions bear the marks of reality and the possibility of criminal events. And it would be good, ladies and gentlemen, that this could be professionally and clearly verified, without any local influence or social connection between e.g. the environment of judges, prosecutors, lawyers or other legal professionals. And it would have been good if this had been done in criminal proceedings, e.g. verification activities. The person affected by the complaint, who will affect whether the notification of the offence will be able to exercise his or her rights, e.g. complaining of a refusal to initiate or, if any, a decision to terminate the preliminary investigation. As for other disciplinary shortcomings, ladies and gentlemen, there is a very large novel here, it is true, a very large novel, adapting the prosecution to the democratic rule of the rule of law. This law introduces the publicity of prosecutors' disciplinary proceedings. The prosecutors' corporation has so far had classified disciplinary proceedings. I'm very sorry, for example. the matter that Members of the Civic Platform were talking about today in the media about the willingness to waive my immunity could not be an open matter and the public did not know what evidence the prosecution had and how the proceedings ended. And this proceeding ended with a remission in the absence of any indication of an act prohibited in my behaviour as head of the Homeland Security Agency or my associates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u523	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Lydia Staron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u524	Minister, I'll ask a little bit from the other side. In many cases, I meet with these black sheep and such actions that call for vengeance to heaven. Honestly, I put quite high hopes in this bill because the formula of the applicable law And it's not just my opinion. It just didn't work out. Very often it is that prosecutors are, I would say, independent of the law, independent of the rules and actually untouchable. A horse with a row of men who will remove the immunity of the prosecutor and lead to disciplinary action. I'd like to ask you about three kinds of... Apart from the fact that there are a lot of problems with the proceedings... [[Senator, we're asking questions in a one-minute formula.]] It's me very quickly. [[And it's been a minute.]] I'd like to ask you specifically. [[You're welcome.]] The first thing is disciplinary action. The limitation period is extended and this is okay. I'm more interested in... I'm dating the fact that prosecutors are just uneducated. I was very interested in what you said about specialization. I'd like to ask if the centres you've been talking about regarding economic and fiscal crimes are only at the level of the regional prosecutors. Is Art. 35 §3 also applies to this specialization? I'd like you to take a look at it and tell me. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Bogdan Święczkowski: But which article, Senator?]] Art. 35 §3. Does that apply to the specialty you were talking about? What are the trainings supposed to look like? [[Senator, because we've already crossed...]] I'm almost done. [[Yeah, but...]] It's about enforcement law, cooperative law. Because the real prosecutors are, so to speak, highly uneducated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u525	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u526	Minister, the first President of the Supreme Court was surprised by the conclusion, stating in the justification of the project that the Attorney General or his authorised prosecutor would not be liable for providing reliable and consistent information. In the view of the President and my humble person, this information is incomprehensible. Any civil and property liability may be caused by a breach by the above mentioned bodies of the presumption of innocence guaranteed by Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 constitutions, as well as binding international standards for Poland. Then why the passus? Isn't there a fear here that the presumption of innocence may be violated? 'Cause that's what it says. Hence this security in advance, an indication that the Attorney General or an authorised prosecutor will not be liable for civil and property liability.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u527	Thank you very much, Senator. You're asking Senator Mieczysław Augustyn a minute's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u528	Minister, you have not reassured me by saying that there are very many vague concepts, especially in the context of the article. 12, which speaks of making available to others It's also an under-precise one, which is actually every single person. Specific data on specific cases. But perhaps you will be able to define another concept, which is in this article, so information that may be relevant due to the proper functioning of the State? Or would you like to clarify the concept of an important public interest, which is in §2? 'Cause if we sat together, I guess we'd all have something different in mind. It's completely arbitrary. How do you relate to this? How do you define that, can you be more specific?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u529	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u530	I'd start from the end. Dear Senator, it always depends on the particular situation. I can tell you that, as head of the Homeland Security Agency, I have had to decide almost every day whether or not a given case is in jeopardy with the state's security bases, whether the safety of the most important people in the country is at risk or not. And always, if this was the case, I had to assess and then take responsibility, I would also be responsible if I exceeded my powers in this respect. Of course, where two lawyers, three opinions. These concepts are inconspicuous in order to be able to react in the event of concrete, real threats. If you exceed your powers in this respect, you will wrongly define whether you will exceed this semi-open definition, then you will be liable for criminal liability or at least disciplinary responsibility. So there are no such legal definitions, and in my opinion, I'm completely honest with you. Such legal definitions should not be in situations of public interest, social interest, social harm to acts or the interests of state security or the economic basis of the State. Honestly, I'm just a law degree, a long-term practice of law, not a theoretician, so I don't think my role here is that I'm explaining some legal concepts that work in the law. In this respect, the state probably has a group of experts who... [[We just didn't have time to ask...]] Yeah, but I'm not the judge of that, ladies and gentlemen. As far as the second question is concerned, frankly, there are no such entries in the bill. Most likely the president of the Supreme Court... [[In the explanatory memorandum, in the explanatory memorandum.]] The senator quoted a passage of justification... In my opinion, taking into account the content of the legal standard of the article. 12, this is simply a simple mistake, which is included in this justification, and this does not in any way refer to the provisions of the Article. 12 §4 and §5. As for the first question, Senator, well, it's not entirely appropriate for me as a retired prosecutor to criticize my fellow prosecutors, but I'm trying to be objective and rational here. There are various prosecutors who have different knowledge, different mental structure, different vices or distinctive character traits. So I would not create general categories in this respect. I would like the prosecutors to work efficiently, effectively, first of all honest and acting as they are ordered by vows, which means serving the citizens of the Republic. Because it's worth emphasising one thing. I think there was a question here about whether one of your senators spoke. If you don't, I'm sorry, maybe it happened in the Sejm. That it's a profession that it's a job. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a public service. Public service involves a lot of responsibilities, but it also involves powers, but most of all, responsibilities towards society. And I hope that this bill will lead to a rapid improvement in the quality of prosecutors' work. I do not hide the fact that we received signals from the prosecutor's office that it was not really worthwhile for prosecutors to show honest, honest and efficient work in criminal prosecutions, because they were equally appreciated and received the same money as prosecutors who supervised the proceedings, acted in courts or dealt with training issues or administrative or office issues. This is about to change, ladies and gentlemen. Prosecutors are supposed to concentrate on prosecuting crimes, not on supervisory work. Moreover, the supervisory model is to change from professional supervision, de facto and de iure, to a model of so-called consultative supervision, i.e. the supervising prosecutor will be required to assist a lower prosecutor in the proper conduct of the preparatory proceedings so that the objectives of the procedure are met. As far as specialisation is concerned, this is what the bill says, and this is another element that we want to introduce. The prosecutor can't be an expert on everything, he can't know everything and he can't operate as well with concepts from various fields of economic, financial, fiscal law, etc., as I talked to the senator, execution or cooperative. Specialization needs to be introduced, but these aren't legal standards. As you probably know, there is a bill. And it must be created, adopted or adopted by the Minister of Justice by the new rules of procedure of the general office of the prosecutor's office, in which these rules of procedure will be governed. As I'm sure you know. And if you don't know, I'm telling you, the head of the school of judges and prosecutors has changed. And from the knowledge I have, it is clear that the model of training for future judges and prosecutors is to be significantly changed in order to introduce these specialization models. To be honest, I regret very much that the Polish Constitution for the Polish judiciary is at least very detailed in this respect, which prevents the creation of specialized courts, such as in Spain or Italy, where there is a separate judiciary dealing with the fight against organised or drug crime, or the most serious economic crime. It would be good for specialization changes in the prosecutor's office to make such changes also in the Polish judiciary. There is such a hope that at least specialised departments dealing with specific crimes will be created in the context of various reforms of the Law on the System of General Courts. But I repeat: this is hope, advanced work still in this area... I've never heard of such advanced work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u531	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u532	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm going back to art. 57. In fact, you have signalled a conflict between those supervising the service, Minister. In the case of military services, he is the Minister of Defence, in the case of civil services, he is the appropriate person, i.e. the coordinator of civil services and the prosecutor, because, according to §2 we were talking about, and according to §3, which we have not yet discussed, and especially in the case of civil services, which we have not yet discussed, the Minister of Justice becomes a super minister to those who supervise the service. [[Very good.]] Well, not really good. Just so we're clear. Not quite well, and that's because it simply assumes a conflict within the government. I would like to ask whether the Ministry of Justice is aware of this and how such conflicts can be resolved in a situation where it is clear in §4 that the head of the responsible officer or head of the organizational unit initiates professional or disciplinary proceedings when there is a refusal to give the Minister of Justice a general review of the operational material.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u533	Thank you very much. Senator Rafał Ambrozik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u534	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about how many prosecutors currently work in the Polish prosecutor's office, what it is to place cases at the various levels of the prosecutor's office, and whether the new law will have an impact or whether it can change the proportion of cases of individual prosecutors. What I'm talking about is whether or not he's gonna relieve those prosecutors who are most busy, which is the district attorneys.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u535	Thank you very much, Senator, thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj asks a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u536	Mr. Marshal, Minister, just a little bit. I will read one passage from the opinion of the Attorney General and ask the Minister to explain and comment. It appears from the bill that the prosecutor may commit a gross and obvious miscarriage of the law in so far as it acts solely in the interests of society. This is an extremely vague term, and the question immediately arises: who will decide that this prosecutor is acting solely in the interests of society? Could you explain that to us, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u537	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u538	First, I will answer the third question from the end, Dear Senators. It will be decided by an independent disciplinary court in two instances, and at the end of the day, if there is an annulment, the Supreme Court The general, not the disciplinary, resident in Warsaw. Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the burden on the prosecutor's office and the number of prosecutors - It's In fact, there is an interesting question in the context of the liquidation of the military prosecutor's office. This in Poland is according to data... I am based here on the report of the Attorney General in 2014, because, I repeat, we have no other means of obtaining information, we only have those that are widely available. The senators have access to them, too, but I will try to get this information as far as I can. In Poland there are 6,000 216 prosecutors, at the level of the district attorney's office is conducted 99% preparatory procedures I don't remember the exact number at the moment, but I think it's about a million cases, but I don't want to mislead you... Oh, I've got this data: 1 million 48,000 pre-trials. So the U.S. Attorney General's office is on average. In view of every prosecutor, that's the prosecutor supervising the prosecution's office, etc. There aren't many cases a month, because there are dozens of cases. And in the district attorney's office... Well, there are district attorneys in big cities where there are 120, 140, 150 pre-trials per prosecutor per month. [[A month?]] A month. For example, I will give you the average monthly number of criminal cases that go to the military prosecutor's office: 0,8 , Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the number of indictments per year against a military prosecutor? We could do a quiz like this. [[Two?]] 1.07. And what's the number of indictments a month against a military prosecutor? [[Zero.]] Ladies and gentlemen, 0.14 . [[How much do they make?]] What are the salaries? [[No, no, don't answer that, because there was no question, it was an illegal question.]] Sure, sure. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, that's the answer, ladies and gentlemen. I hope it's exhausting. As regards §3 and §4 Article. 57, as far as I know from the discussions on this subject with Minister Kaminski and Minister Macierewicz, the record of these paragraphs does not raise any objections. It's Worth Paying Attention 'Cause in the media, there's a lot of bad news about it. In paragraph 3, the Attorney General shall be given the opportunity to apply only for operational and cognitive action. So what's going on informally right now is now going to be formalized: as necessary, the Attorney General is asking for surgical and cognitive action, if the Head of Service considers it pointless or illegal, he has the right to refuse this request. What kind of scary privilege is that? Well, in my opinion, none. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards §4, this is the consequence of the reality of the prosecutor's control over operational and cognitive activities. If the prosecutor controls these activities, he wishes to have access to the material from these activities and the head of the organizational unit unduly refuses access to it, the consequence is that he should have the right to apply for punishment or to initiate an investigation into the reasons for refusing to make such material available. So this is a logical consequence of the material ability to control the operational activities of the services, which I think also agrees with what you pointed out yesterday during the Senate session. Thank you, I think that's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u539	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't see... Mr. Senator... Yes, there you go, Senator Augustine, Senator Wach and Senator Zientarski. Well, there's still a lot of people checking in. [[Mr. Minister, two questions. First...]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Bogdan Święczkowski: Excuse me, I'm sweating, I'm sorry, but I have my weight and height, so that...]] [[Voice from the room: Why don't you sit down?]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Bogdan Święczkowski: In a moment, I am already close to this decision.]] [[Not just weight, but knowledge.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Bogdan Święczkowski: Yes, I listen, Mr. Senator, I apologize for the intrusion.]] [[May I?]] Senator Augustine. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u540	Minister, you are very limited by the powers of the public prosecutor's authorities. I'd like to know why. And second question. Are you familiar with the opinion of this article, which I keep asking about, namely, Art. 12, the opinion of the first President of the Court. It states that there is no reasonable justification for providing information to private individuals from the ongoing investigation, excluding the procedural route of access to the file provided for in other Articles of the Code of Criminal Procedure. How are you gonna deal with that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u541	Thank you very much. Senator Wach. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u542	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I'm going to repeat, or rather, I'm going to clarify Senator Augustine's first question, because that's what I meant. I'd like to ask you about the National Attorney's Council. She's changed a lot about the squad, as far as I can tell, the size, or rather the number of members. And I'd say yes. The Council of the Prosecutor's Office, which was in the current law, was attended by parliamentarians appointed or appointed by the Sejm and the Senate. It's gone now. I would like to ask you about this change, which is the reason for this change. In addition, I have a question concerning the point in the opinion of the Attorney General who says that the Council of Prosecutors does not have the tools to fulfil the task mentioned in the article. 43, that is to say, being the guardian of the independence of the prosecutors. I mean, in general, I have a question about advice, about its composition, the barge of parliamentarians, and actually what's in the opinion, the barge of tools, according to the U.S. Attorney General, to defend or defend the independence of prosecutors.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u543	Thank you. Senator Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u544	Minister, the press reported quite extensively that over 100 prosecutors, and experienced prosecutors, in connection with the information about this bill, about these laws, want to retire. How do you feel about leaving and saying goodbye to the D.A.'s office with so many prosecutors? [[The assets will have to reveal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u545	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u546	Ladies and gentlemen! I will start with the last question, because it is very interesting, ladies and gentlemen, and it is also connected with the work of the High Senate. Well, for the past two days, I've been bombarded by prosecutors from the Attorney General's Office, from other prosecutions in the lower order that there's a rumor in the prosecution's office that you honored senators are going to make a change in the number of salaries the prosecutor gets retired, reduce this number from 6 to 1. Perhaps such a rumor... [[Voice from the room: I've never heard of it.]] So do I, to be honest, for the first time in my life, but perhaps one of the senators has such an amendment. I haven't heard. It's about an amendment like that. The Ministry is not in favour of such an amendment. However, such rumors, unfortunately, despite the fact that the bill is available on the pages of the Sejm, are functioning in the prosecutor's office. Perhaps this is a symptom of the fact that some prosecutors who have reached retirement age, because it is very important, important, and have the right to retire, want to exercise this right. And perhaps some prosecutors fear, for example, the disclosure of property claims. I don't know, and I don't want to judge. Perhaps this is due to the fact that there will be a much greater role of prosecutor in criminal prosecution, and much less, as I said, in supervision and administration. I don't know why. Undoubtedly, if the prosecutor has acquired pension rights, i.e. to retire, he has the right to benefit from them and no one can judge that. So if they have acquired rights And as far as I know, they have acquired rights. It's their right to leave. 100 prosecutors against 6,000 prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen, that's a small percentage. I think the D.A.'s office can handle it, even if more prosecutors are going to retire. In any case, it is worth noting, ladies and gentlemen, that the possibility of early retirement, early retirement, is linked to the change of the paradoxical A retirement age, an increase in the retirement age and, at the same time, the introduction of transitional provisions that make it possible to make use of the possibility of early retirement. That's the answer to the first question. As far as the National Public Prosecutor's Council is concerned, let me be honest with you, ladies and gentlemen, that I otherwise understand the self-government of prosecutors. The self-government of prosecutors is that prosecutors themselves co-decide their roles, their fates, take different decisions without participation, with all due respect to the senators, Members or representatives of the President, in their own group, and not among third parties. Anything to say, then, certainly the National Public Prosecutor's Council was not an organ of the Public Prosecutor's Government. In accordance with this law, the Public Prosecutor's Board of Prosecutors is to be the body of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The powers of this council are of course changing considerably, which is because the model of the prosecution is changing, i.e. the departure from the unknown structure of the legal protection authority to the idea that the prosecution functions as part of the executive authority. It is therefore a consequence that the national board of prosecutors acquires competence only for opinion, plus possibly identifying certain directions and areas that may jeopardise the independence of prosecutors. And such powers the national prosecutors' council may have, it will depend on the national prosecutors' council itself. It is worth noting that the National Council of Prosecutors is one of the organs of the Public Prosecutor's Government. This law is very much and beneficial to prosecutors, to the lowest level, to district prosecutors, to the first line, and to the choice of prosecutors for regional prosecutors, and then to the choice of collegiate members. 'Cause these are the next local government bodies in the D.A.'s office. So far, representatives of the appeal prosecutors, who will be regional prosecutors, have had an advantage in these bodies. Such a change leads to the fact that the majority will have these first-line prosecutors from the District Attorney's Office, which, in my opinion, is a strengthening of the principles of prosecutorial self-government in this context. Moreover, at the moment, there is an extra-legal assembly of prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutor's Office on the basis of an order, and in the new law it is indicated, by law, that another self-government institution at the level of the State Prosecutor's Office is acting. It's about the state's attorneys. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are asking me about any specific solutions related to this or to the assessment of these solutions, please exempt me from this obligation, because this law has been passed by the Polish Parliament and I, as a representative of the executive authority, do not want to judge the sense of strict reasons or opinions which led to the adoption of one or another law. I stress: the Ministry of Justice fully supports both of these laws, believes that they are right, legitimate, that they will change the Polish prosecutor's office for the better, and above all that they will serve the citizens of the Republic of Poland. And I think that answers all the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u547	Thank you very much, Minister. You're Senator Marian the Sheriff. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, I really haven't gotten an answer. Why would the Minister...]] Mr. Senator... [[...considered it appropriate and reasonable to disregard the opinion of the first president...]] Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but this question has been asked four times and the Minister has answered. You have to listen. There's no obligation to answer questions. It's not in the book, it's not in the book. Find the point where it says the Minister is supposed to answer, as the senator wishes. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[And I thought you were a marshal defending our rights so we could get answers.]] I'm defending, defending, and... [[I have a different feeling.]] I'm defending and I'm asking you to ask questions. The list of questions is open, sir. You can sign up. You're Senator Marian the Sheriff. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u548	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, what do you think caused the need to appoint a special department in the National Public Prosecutor's Office, Internal Affairs, to prosecute the most serious criminal acts committed by judges, court assistants and prosecutors? How many of these crimes are there? Do you need to run such a special cell? Are these so many cases of crimes committed by judges and prosecutors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u549	Thank you very much, Senator. Marshal Grażyna Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u550	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the current provision in the Constitution does not provide for the merger of these two functions, the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice, it does not provide for a personal union, not to mention the Minister of Justice in Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 concerning the National Judicial Council and the Prosecutor-General separately in Article. Article 191 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. I have already asked this question to Mr Sewerinski, and now I am asking you this question. Aren't you afraid that this record is against the constitution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u551	Thank you very much, Senator. Now Mr. Senator Marek Piek. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Please... Mr. Senator, you don't have a voice right now. Mr. Senator Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u552	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a more general question. One of the basic allegations against this law, one can say, of a more media and publicist nature, is the violation of the principle of the independence of prosecutors. I would like you to comment on how it is with this principle of independence now, how it was and isn't there some abuse here? Isn't this independence raised to the rank of the supreme principle of the prosecution's operation and confused even with the independence of the judge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u553	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u554	Ladies and gentlemen! Let me answer the earlier question, because of course I forgot. Dear Senator, I am trying to avoid judging the opinion of the first President of the Supreme Court. I can only say, once again, that where 2 lawyers, there are 3 opinions. I don't agree with that opinion. The President has the right to her opinion and has given it. The State, not me, is assessing whether this opinion is appropriate or inappropriate in the process of voting for or against the law. And I don't want to talk about it anymore. I repeat, I have a different opinion. Anyone can have a different opinion. This is everyone's right, I think it's the basis for civil liberties, ladies and gentlemen. As far as Internal Affairs is concerned, that's what we're talking about. I told you. Of course, we do not have such data. I repeat, there is a difficulty in accessing the data as regards proceedings concerning judges or prosecutors. There are a large number of complaints and requests about judges and prosecutors. Ladies and gentlemen, also experience, although not only recent years, but I can base Only in your memory... I'm guessing three or four years ago, there was a case that in the media was referred to as the case of Supreme Court judges. I'm not referring to the substantive issues of this case, but this case was moved from one prosecutor's office to another. If the Internal Affairs Department is established, it will be known who is to lead the case, it will be known who is responsible for taking such a decision, and you, as parliamentarians, will be able to control it and ask for an explanation of the reasons for taking such a decision and not of any other substantive decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I was only a young prosecutor in 1997. Perhaps you senators participated in the adoption of a new constitution, the basic law of 1997. It is those of you who have passed this law that you should ask, I regret it very much. Why the Polish prosecutor's office was not included in the Constitution. And that's what happened. There is a concept of the Attorney General, but this does not mean that the Office of the Attorney General or the function, because this is the concept used by the legislator, which I would like to stress, cannot be combined. Well, then, fear... First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I am a Catholic, so I can say that I am only afraid of God. I have no such fear, ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, the Constitutional Tribunal, as an authority, will assess, if a person so requests, the compliance of that law with the basic law and will take a decision in this respect. If it turns out that such a provision is unconstitutional, there will be appropriate legal consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, you have already discussed the Constitutional Court Act, so you know what powers the Constitutional Tribunal has. As far as issues related to the violation of prosecutorial independence or to the reduction of prosecutorial independence are concerned, I must say with great respect to the Senator rapporteur that, in my opinion, this independence of the prosecutor has not changed significantly in relation to the independence of the current provisions of the law. In fact, there was a return to the situation before 2009, when orders on the content of legal acts could also be given to prosecutors. In my opinion, the strengthening of prosecutorial independence is precisely the introduction of counter-attack, in the article. 137 §2 of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, which allows the prosecutor to defend himself against an illegal, unlawful, unlawful or incompatible order of the prosecutor precisely by demonstrating that his action is solely in the public interest, not in the personal interest, not in the interests of other persons, but in the interests of the public interest alone. Then he can invoke this countertype and may not follow the command of his superior. In my opinion, therefore, this law does not weaken the independence of the prosecutor, but strengthens it. I would also like to stress, in favour of the rapporteur, the professor, that, I believe, with a certain vision, the prosecutor's office is to be the part of the authority that carries out internal security tasks, and therefore the organisation of this institution must be characterised by the principle of hierarchical subjection and uniformity, which means that the prosecutor's office as an institution cannot be independent. I want the D.A. alone to be independent. Let me tell you something from life's experience. I acted as a prosecutor in the vertical fight against organized crime, in the vertical fight against criminal and economic crime for many, many years and I did not happen. It was a time when the prosecutor could issue orders on the content of the legal act, so that anyone would try to give me such an order contrary to my will. Because either the D.A. has a spine, he can stand up to any veiled or direct requests or commands, or he can't. It also depends on the personality characteristics of the prosecutor. And here it is important to know what the recruitment process is like, what are the conditions for admission to service, what the training process of this prosecutor looks like and how he acquires his professional experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u555	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Piotr Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u556	Minister, is it true that e.g. Minister of the Interior, but also other ministers will be required to report to the prosecutor general?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u557	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u558	Mr. Marshal, Minister, first of all, I have a request. Although the marshal has made such a declaration that the Minister does not have to answer, I will ask two questions and I would like to ask the Minister to answer these questions. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Bogdan Święczkowski: I will try.]] Minister, I have two brief questions. Opinion of the National Chamber of Legal Counsels... I understand that these are opinions and, as the Minister said, any opinion can be accepted, rejected or can have its own opinion. But the authors of this opinion comment on the concerns regarding the sharing of the information I will briefly tell the media about the ongoing processes. The authors quote briefly: In these cases we are dealing with too general, unclear, etc. My question is, aren't you afraid of the minister that it might be? I'm talking about using information for the media. A certain instrument? Because there's such a belief that if the prosecutor says it's actually the man to whom the statement relates, he's almost convicted. Aren't you afraid of using these instruments? And second question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u559	They're supposed to be two short, and you're already talking over a minute, Senator. [[Well, then I'm gonna finish this and then I'm gonna ask you one more question.]] Would you like me to enroll the senator for your next question? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u560	Well, maybe to finish the art interview. 57, let me add that in this article. 57 is still §5, which states that the Attorney General may change the classification clause, may change the classification of classified material. How does that apply to such a sacred principle? You know your way around the department. I know my way around the department. - which is enshrined in Article. 6 and who says that information... that a change of classification is made on the basis of the decision of the person who gave it to him or his superior. And yet, the Attorney General is not the official supervisor of the people who put a secret clause in the service. How does that fit into this? I'm already overlooking the fact that there's a misquoted paragraph here, because I think you were talking about an article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 Act on the protection of classified information, not paragraph. 1; but that's by the way. The question is: how do I put this, to the service relationship between the Attorney General and the officers of the service?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u561	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u562	Dear Senators, once again I stress that this law has been passed by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, so I would very much like to direct these comments to the appropriate authority, not to the Minister of Justice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I understand that there may be some doubts here, so please ask the Parliament of the Republic. But of course, I'm going to address all these questions. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the article. 57 §5, of course it is a lex specialis to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information. This lex specialis, which is worth paying attention to, may only exist, I want to use the law to prevent you from being misled. For the purposes of the preparatory procedure. This is about a situation where the confidentiality clause has to be abolished in such a way that the procedure is smooth. I can give you an example. On the basis of classified documents, the prosecutor has a need or desire, or even an obligation to carry out a trial experiment or a local vision, i.e. an open trial, because the local vision takes place in some area. In such a case, the Attorney General, as this exception, is granted the possibility. It is worth noting that this is after consulting the exhibitor and informing the President of the Council of Ministers. In view of the fact that the Attorney General is also the Minister of Justice, if such an intention of the Prosecutor General violates the State's security, the President of the Council of Ministers could express his opinion in a sovereign manner. This statutory provision is also due to specific problems that have occurred recently, and this is a dispute between the District Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw and the former Head of the Central Anti-corruption Office of Paul Wojtunik about the abolition or amendment of the clause that actually led the prosecution to initiate criminal proceedings against Paweł Wojtunik. To avoid such disputes and possible criminal proceedings... Well, that's a very good record. I repeat, this is a very special record. I hope it doesn't have much use, maybe none. It is worth noting, by the way, that this provision concerns only the classification of documents, not the protection of secrets that are always protected, which are indicated in various types of corporate laws, e.g. protecting detailed methods and forms of operational activities, the permanent protection of sources of information for special services, operational contacts, etc. In this respect, this provision of the Act does not apply. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards concerns regarding the provision of information by prosecutors from preparatory proceedings e.g. The media, I'm the one who can say yes. For me, as a supporter of a democratic rule of law, one of the fundamental principles is the right of the public to have access to public information. On the basis of various proceedings that have recently taken place in Poland, e.g. on the Amber Gold scandal, the Wołomin SKOK scandal or the Smolensk disaster, I would like to stress that the media policy of the prosecutor's office is incomprehensible, at least to a certain extent, which is in no way normal at the present time in the law. All press releases of the prosecutor's office, press conferences of the prosecutor's office are carried out on the basis of non-law records These issues are not regulated by the Act. For the first time in the history of the Polish prosecutor's office, I hope that the senators also took the trouble to have these records standardized at the level of the law on the prosecutor's office. It is much more transparent, transparent and in my opinion confirms the existence of a state of law in Poland. Another question. I don't quite understand the question of reporting to the Attorney General... I don't have one right now... If the senator had pointed out an article because I don't remember right now... It refers to information on the authorities that these ministers oversee in the field of criminal prosecution. This provision is currently functioning in the Public Prosecutor's Office Act. At the moment, ministers are required to provide such information to the prosecutor general. The legislator introduces an additional obligation under which the Attorney General is required to communicate this information to the President of the Council of Ministers, together with his opinion, whether those bodies which the Prosecutor supervises in the conduct of preparatory proceedings, i.e. the police authorities, the special services bodies, carry out those preparatory procedures correctly, in a proper manner. It seems... This is a repetition of the provisions of the current law. It seems as reasonable and complementary as possible with the entire logic of this law, and also the previous one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u563	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u564	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I always pay attention to the issues of competence because of my profession. I'm concerned that according to this law, the Attorney General, so to speak, must have an ordinary prosecutor's or judge's exam, and the Attorney General, the head of all prosecutors, must only have legal studies. The Minister has repeatedly referred to his prosecutorial practice here, and that is something to be appreciated, because, as you know, practice and theory sometimes go sideways. I'd like your opinion... Do you consider the absence of this requirement for the Attorney General to be justified? Aren't you afraid the prosecutors are gonna feel like they're being run by a dilettante who doesn't have the right preparation? And if the boss is a dilettant, it always gives rise to problems that, due to the prosecutor's profession, may have grieving consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u565	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u566	Minister, according to the article. 14 §2 One of the Deputy Prosecutor General is the Deputy Prosecutor General for Organised Crime and Corruption. According to Art. 19 §2 one department in the national prosecutor's office is the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption, and art. 20 and Article 20 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 21 define the structure of the local departments of the Department of Organised Crime and Corruption. Tell me, do you not have the impression that countering the introduction of this new law on the prosecution, this, so to speak, media cries that we are dealing with, can be partly inspired by the environment, which will create this organized foundation in the prosecutor's office I am referring here to the fight against organised crime and corruption Isn't there something wrong with it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u567	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u568	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I made a proper formal request, and I would like to present it. This is a formal request for a break. As you may have noticed, the Minister has not answered some of the questions. Similarly, the previous representatives, the rapporteurs of the committee, did not answer certain questions. They said, and rightly so, that they are not representatives of the applicants. So I would like to ask for a break until an applicant's representative arrives in the room who would answer the questions that have already been asked here. And at the same time, I would like to ask your marshal to invite the representatives of the National Public Prosecutor's Council and the Attorney General and allow us to ask them questions. At the moment, we are in such a situation that we are asking questions to the Deputy Minister, whose boss is about to become the Attorney General. Clearly, the Ministry, the representatives of the Ministry, are interested in the bill being discussed here, so that the law is changed. Clearly, they're not objective here. And I would like to be able to ask questions and obtain objective answers that will be answers for citizens, not just for us. So that I submit, Mr. Marshal, a request for a recess. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u569	There's a request for a recess. Isn't there another conclusion? Is this conclusion... Senator Ryszka reporting. [[We continue, Mr. Marshal.]] But... So you're reporting...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u570	Mr. Marshal, I object. [[Who?]] I object. [[I object.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u571	Okay, but one objection... Good. We therefore proceed to the vote, go ahead. Who's in favour? Except I don't have a card. I'd ask for my card. Maybe we should get ready to vote. [[Voice from the hall: They are, they are, we vote.]] There you go, we're voting. Who's in favour of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska's motion... which is not precise, because I don't know what time it is. Although you have identified people who should be summoned. Who's in favor of this motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 41 senators voted, only 4 for, 36 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 6]] [[Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal!]] [[There's no quorum.]] I know that, Mr. Senator, I see that there is no quorum. I'm declaring a ten-minute break until... Turn on the clock, because I don't see what time it is. Time-out till 1 o'clock. [[Quorum is, only the senators didn't vote.]] They didn't vote. I know. I'll see who voted. I'll check. Even Marshal Borusewicz didn't vote, although he was in the courtroom. [[Adjournment from 00 minutes 40 to 1 minutes 00]] I'm reopening the session. Once again, we are voting on the formal motion of Senator Zdrojewska. Let me remind you that it concerns an adjournment. Who's in favor of Senator Zdrojewska's motion? Who's against it? Please report the results. 61 senators voted, 14 were in favour, 47 against. [[Voting No 7]] The conclusion was not received by the majority. We're continuing our deliberations. As I understand it, Senator Zdrojewska does not ask questions. Yes? [[Yes.]] Because you signed up for the question, and you filed a formal motion. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u572	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to go back to the question of how to pass information on to the media. May I ask the Minister again to refer to this? And most of all, I'd like to ask you a question like this. I'm sure you and Minister Ziobra take into account what concerns the issue of informing the media about important matters in the public interest. Here's my question. Is it to be understood that former conferences, such as, for example, will return? Mr. D.A. Engelking, and that kind of information about the job of the D.A.'s office? Do you have any other idea of informing the media about the ongoing cases? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u573	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u574	I'll start at the end. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know who will be the new Attorney General, I don't know who the deputy Attorney General will be, so I don't want to make any assumptions. As I understand it, a rational prosecutor-general will act in such a way as to provide the public with access to information, in particular with regard to the interest of the preparatory proceedings, as is apparent directly from the article. 156 §5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. As for the first question concerning the conditions for the position of attorney general, which are more lenient than the conditions for the position of prosecutor, I will say yes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that what is different is the position of the Public Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor's Office or IPN, and what else is the Office of the Public Prosecutor General. These are not equivalent functions. The Attorney General has certain powers and must fulfil some of the duties of the Prosecutor, but since he is not a Public Prosecutor of the Office's Office, he does not have to meet the conditions that the Public Prosecutor of the Prosecutor's Office must fulfil. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth noting that from 1989 to 2009, for 20 years, anyone, even a plumber, could become a general prosecutor of justice. There was no legal standard to regulate who would be the Attorney General. He's a minister of justice. The usual thing is that it was a political custom that it was supposed to be a lawyer. But as far as I can remember, both... I don't have such a perfect memory, but I remember who handed it to me. The nomination for a prosecutor was the Prime Minister, Minister Hanna Suchocka, who did not have a prosecutor's application, a judge's or a lawyer's application. As far as I'm concerned, Senator Cimoszewicz, as Minister of Justice, didn't seem to have a completed application either. In any case, for 20 years this system has been functioning without these conditions. I believe that the introduction of these conditions means that the powers of the Attorney General will have to be very large, such as to allow him to manage the entire Polish prosecutor's office efficiently. And like I said, what's different is the prosecution's prosecution's law enforcement case. This requires, of course, the completion of a prosecutor's or judge's application, the exercise of an asesura, the passing of a prosecutor's examination and the fulfilment of these other conditions in the article. 75 laws. As for the reasons why it is so reluctant to set up these departments of the local crime department of the national prosecutor's office, I don't know them. I can only say one thing: such departments were established in 2007, they started functioning smoothly, there were very good specialists, prosecutors who knew foreign languages, trained in various types of postgraduate studies, courses, but unfortunately for unknown reasons, and in principle without justification, in 2008, Minister Ćwiakalski, then the Attorney General, called off this reform. As a result, prosecutions to fight organised crime have been demoted to the level of appeal prosecutors. So I don't know these reasons. Well, here you can answer that question for yourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u575	Thank you very much, Minister. You are asking the question of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u576	Minister, you claimed that the prosecutor had the right to exclude himself from the proceedings. I want to quote you an article. 7 §4: if the prosecutor does not agree with the order concerning the content of the proceedings, he may request that the order be changed or excluded from the performance of the action or from taking part in the case. The exclusion is ultimately decided by the prosecutor directly in charge of the prosecutor who gave the order. The supervisor decides if he can shut down. He can decide... According to this record, he can also refuse to disable, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u577	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The question is Senator Józef Łyczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u578	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I would like to say that Poles expect this change, which is included in today's law, they expect it to be introduced as soon as possible for a very simple reason. They are tired of the terrible effectiveness of the justice system that has taken place in the last 8 years, when, as we all know, there have been huge scandals, one scandal chased the other, none of which has been settled, and the bigger the thief, the more he felt impunity when so many companies and people, mostly companies, went bankrupt. I'm talking about companies that, for example, They worked on the construction of highways. Sadly, those who led them to do so got away with it. So much for entry. And my question is something completely different. Is it true that Donald Tusk, as prime minister, wanted to connect the D.A.'s office to the ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u579	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Marek Pak. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u580	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. The new law on the D.A.'s office eliminates military prosecutors, and I would like to ask what this will look like in practice. Because I know one of the charges is that these prosecutors are gonna have a hard time. What's gonna happen to them? In what structures Will they come in? What is their future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u581	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u582	Dear Senators! Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, perhaps you misunderstood me. Of course, the D.A. decides not to do anything directly, but if the D.A. still doesn't want to do the job... the legal order, of course, he may not do it, but he's going to be exposed to the possibility of an investigation or disciplinary action. And that's what this countertype of exclusive social interest is introduced for. If such proceedings were initiated against a prosecutor who would not have carried out a legal order, the proceedings would have to be dismissed or the prosecutor would have to be acquitted in disciplinary proceedings if he could prove that he was acting solely in the interests of society. It is in my opinion that this countertype guarantees. And so I understand the provisions of this law adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. [[In my opinion, this is absolutely unrelated.]] I see. [[But this is not a discussion!]] [[Please, Minister, answer the next question.]] I try to respond accurately and reliably, without any political connotations, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to whether Mr Donald Tusk wanted to join the two offices, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the recent disclosures by the Vice-Minister of Rabbit's media information show that in 2013 Prime Minister Donald Tusk issued such a disposition to the then Minister of Justice, who was obliged to undertake legislative work on the merger of these two offices. I can't remember where the medium in which the newspaper article on the subject was... But undoubtedly within 2 or 3 weeks he appeared and can be found and read calmly. Of course, Prime Minister Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, did not deny this, and so I do not know what the President has said about it, and I am based on media information. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the liquidation of the military prosecutors' office, prosecutors who go to the public prosecutor's office will not lose either on pay or on other social issues. Those military prosecutors who do not want to go to the U.S. Attorney's Office will be able to object and remain in the Polish Army in positions they hold, i.e. colonel, major, captain 'Cause in fact, it's rare for a military prosecutor to have a lower degree. By the way, the answer to this question is worth, for example... I don't know if you know this, but there was information in the media about Mr. Prosecutor Szeląg, whom you probably know about the Smolensk investigation. Well, according to the media, Mr. Szeląg of the Chief Military Prosecutor's Office left in 2014 because of his medical condition... that is to say, he was transferred to a military pension. And I've been briefed recently. I took it with great surprise. He was appointed as Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor's Office when he was on that colonel's military pension. So he's taking... If that's true, of course. 'Cause I don't want to falsely accuse anyone of anything. This would mean that he would have received a double remuneration. And such cases have already taken place in the military prosecutor's office, because the laws that are currently in place make this possible. But this new law will prevent such situations. In such a case, the prosecutor will have to choose whether he wants to collect the salary, the salary of the prosecutor or the pension or the military pension. Well, it seems that's the solution. as socially fair as possible, given also the level of pay that the prosecutor at rest receives and is not low. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u583	Thank you very much, Minister. I'd like to ask you a question, Senator George Fedorowicz. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u584	Minister, I do not think that the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland can speak publicly, in the Senate, about something for which there are no documents, and there are only media facts. It's about what you just said about Mr. Szeląg. But that's not what I'd like to ask. I have already asked the rapporteur, Mr Severinski, why I, as a senator, am in such a situation that I cannot prepare for this debate. It's just a puriazum for me. And I say this on behalf of my constituents, who are sort of here with me, and this is half of Krakow. They want to know if we're in some kind of weird situation in a state that's in danger. I can't imagine that you could lead the process of investigating some truth about a very serious law in this situation. As Minister, I think you realize that we are not all lawyers and that we cannot read something as serious as a stint or even a longer law. So tell me, what's the reason for what I said? Professor Seweryński, who, of course, is also responsible for this because he is a member of the governing coalition, said that this is a matter of being imposed on us by the Senate bureau, which means by the Marshal... And, you might say, he's free of responsibility. Nevertheless, fortunately, all of this is recorded. And I'm asking the citizens to know why we're doing something so serious at such a rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u585	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn's question, please. [[We've been repairing you broken for eight years. That's the answer.]] Mr. Senator, I didn't give you the floor. [[Minister...]] [[It's stealing at night, not fixing it.]] [[The Minister will answer, Mr President.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Quiet, please. Please do not speak when I have not given this vote to you. [[I'm sorry.]] Now you're asking Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u586	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I am, of course, asking a question, mainly based on the opinions of people with high competence who question the impartiality of the prosecution, and especially the future attorney general and his closest colleagues. My question concerns Art. 106 §3. In the opinion of the Attorney General, the possibility of posting a prosecutor without his consent I will no longer take revenge here on the formulation of a period of 12 months per year... [[Time, time!]] ...can lead to a non-trial influence on the prosecutor's independence. First of all, you can remove him from the case, second, you can intimidate him, threaten to move him to the other end of Poland for the whole year, and thirdly, you can... there is a concern that the interpretation of this provision can create a practice of even permanent holding someone in a delegation: now in Bieszczady and then on the Coast. [[Question!]] [[Mr. Senator, question.]] My question is, isn't there really a possibility of a non-trial influence on the independence of prosecutors here?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u587	Thank you, Senator. You ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki a question. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u588	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, aren't you afraid that moving some of the military prosecutors to the D.A.'s office to prosecute ordinary criminals will cause chaos and lower the quality of the D.A.'s work?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u589	Thank you very much. Minister, please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u590	Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask the senators... I, to be honest, do not have such a great memory and can not accurately reproduce the records of the Attorney General's 2014 report. It is worth noting the type of crimes currently being dealt with by military prosecutors. Or just crime. Because if you pay attention to this report, you will see that in the overall number of acts that military prosecutors have dealt with, a significant proportion of them are offences. Offences, ladies and gentlemen. If the U.S. Attorney's Office were involved in criminal offences, he wouldn't really be asleep or resting in any way. At the moment, according to the data I have, military prosecutors are all over Poland 97, ladies and gentlemen. The army is 100 thousand. In the event that there is a need to increase the army, Lord God, there is no legal option to increase the number of military prosecutors. And the fact that military structures, which have been isolated in some way, are incorporated into the structures of the public prosecutor's office makes it possible to carry out these tasks, including in the military sphere, by civilians. This will mean that if it is necessary to strengthen this department of the Attorney's Office for Military Affairs, it will be possible to respond flexibly to the demand of Polish Army commanders for prosecutors. So it's the other way around. This law makes it possible to ensure that soldiers comply more effectively with the law in military units. That is, of course, my opinion, this is my opinion based on the reading of this law. As regards the possibility of a delegation for 12 months per year, it is worth noting that ? not to finish reading this article on this formulation It is further mentioned that there is a posting: to the prosecutor's office established in the place where he resides or to the prosecutor's office in the place where the prosecutor's office is located. So there is no question of a trial or possibility of sending a prosecutor to another part of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an opportunity. assisting the prosecution, which e.g. He's understaffed, a prosecutor, an experienced prosecutor. This record may seem funny to some of you at first glance, but it is really thought through and adapted to the labour law rules, which, for example, would allow for the failure to work out that delegation of prosecutors after the end of the period of illness. These are like specific solutions, and I don't want to go into such detailed considerations. Of course, it's an extraordinary recipe. It is worth saying that this provision was in force for several years and was not At least I don't remember. No abuse in this regard. The answer to the Senator's third question from Krakow. Mr. Senator, I really do not have the power to judge the legislative procedures applied by the Sejm of the Republic and by the Senate of the Republic. I know only one thing that the bill was filed in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 24 December, and on 28 December it was disclosed on the pages of the Sejm of the Republic. And, of course, whether or not someone has read the bill or not, is not part of my competence. Nor is it my competence to assess another authority, or legislative authority. I am a representative of the executive authority and I do not want to judge another authority, I try not to judge another authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u591	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz a question. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u592	Minister, the question about the procedure and speed of the bill, also on my part... Today we've finished processing the Police Act. Are these laws... [[Voice from the room: Yesterday.]] Yesterday, but yesterday, we also started processing this bill. Are these laws so connected that this law, which we are now considering, or the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, must also be adopted in such an urgent manner? Although the prosecutor in this law receives the powers that I will also ask or talk about, I would like to know your assessment and try to get an answer to the question of why these two laws are considered at the same time at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u593	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Piotr Ziientarski's question, please. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u594	Minister, I'm talking about reorganization, which is de facto calling the prosecution's appeal to the regional prosecutors. My question is simply this: wouldn't you be able to organize these functions that you are talking about because you're talking about new specialization functions, so to speak, within the same prosecutor's office? As I understand it, it's going to be the same headquarters, etc., which is de facto it's just a change of name. Unless I'm wrong. I'm asking if it would be possible to assign these new or complementary roles to these appeals offices.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u595	Thank you, Senator. Senator Grażyna Sztark's question, please. You're welcome, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u596	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I'm talking about property statements. Could you refer to the opinion of the Attorney General that the persons performing public functions by choice and appointment are not similar within the meaning of Article. 32 constitutions. On the other hand, such an allegation would be justified in relation to the unequal treatment of prosecutors and other persons performing public functions outside the choice. Judges are subject to the same limitations so far. Right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u597	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u598	It's a matter of property claims. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the legislator has the right to introduce the principle of transparency of prosecutors' statements of property. I hope the judges are coming too soon. I think it's a sign of transparency. This is, of course, my opinion. A fair course of action against fellow citizens and a certain prosecutor's ethics. I do not hide, Ladies and gentlemen, that a few years ago I had similar views as many prosecutors, similar views to those which you presented here. I feared the disclosure of the property statements until, as head of the ABW, I had to disclose my statement of property. I would like to stress that being head of the Internal Security Agency involves very many threats, but the disclosure of my statement of property had nothing to do with it. Since then... [[Depends...]] Real, Mr. Senator, real... the important thing is that the property statement is real. As I say, I am now in favour of the disclosure of property claims. It is worth noting that this statutory provision does not refer to the absolute disclosure of claims of property. If the life or health of the prosecutor or of the persons closest to him is at risk, he may request that this statement be kept secret from the superior to whom the statement is made. This superior may secrete this property statement. So if there is such a hypothetical situation that the content of a public statement of property could expose the prosecutor to any damage, then such a statement may be classified. This is still much better than your senators or your MPs. As far as I know... Maybe I'll say another way. Rumors in the High House say that there is a group of Members who are working on a law that will fully regulate the disclosure of property claims. Perhaps the situation will be such that this provision will become redundant if, of course, there is such a regulation concerning all civil servants. Can appeal prosecutors be reorganized to carry out these functions in newly appointed regional prosecutors? I don't know, sir. The legislator decided that such a structural change should take place. Whether there will be as many regional prosecutors as the prosecutions will decide within 12 months, because, as you know, the law provides that within 12 months new regulations on the characteristics, structure and number of prosecutors of all levels will also be issued. From the district attorney's office to the regional prosecutor's office. I assume there will probably be a similar number of regional prosecutors. I don't think there'll be six of them, as some in the media have said, although the views of the Minister of Justice This regulation will be issued by the Minister of Justice Of course, it can change. Is the bill... Oh, the senator's question, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Well, there's a connection between these two laws. But I repeat that I do not know the reason why yes, and not otherwise, these laws are being passed. I am very pleased that the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Introductory Rules are so quickly and efficiently implemented by the High Chamber, the highest chamber of the Polish Parliament, being proceded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u599	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Please, Mr. Senator. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal...]] [[I didn't get the answer.]] Minister, did you respond to the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u600	In my opinion, I gave the answer. When I don't know the answer to the question, it's hard... [[Thank you very much...]] [[Is there a connection...]] [[Thank you...]] I said there's a small connection in my opinion. [[Is it small?]] It's not much of a relationship. [[Okay, thank you, that's what I wanted to hear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u601	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u602	Thank you. Minister, do you agree with the quite common opinion of Poles that in recent years there has been a barrier to citizens' access to justice, to restrict access to law enforcement agencies? If so, what were the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u603	Thank you, Senator. Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u604	Thank you kindly. I'd like to ask you about the law on the organisation of the prosecution. Art. 13 defines the functions and scope of the Attorney General's activities. It is said that it directs the prosecution's activities personally or through a national prosecutor, etc. §2 says: "The General Procurator is the superior of the public prosecutors of the Office's offices and prosecutors of the Institute of National Remembrance. A. 18 §2 - that article. 18 concerns the national prosecutor and his/her management of the national prosecutor's office, says: "The national procurator is the prosecutor of the prosecutors of the national prosecutor's office and the prosecutors of other general organisational units of the prosecutor's office. It's not clear to me, but it doesn't make sense that it's miswritten. I just don't understand it, and I don't know if there's a double subsidiary here, whether it's a subsidiary in the event that the Attorney General, by his decision, gives his deputy, i.e. the first deputy, i.e. the national prosecutor, power of attorney in terms of being a superior or being a superior. I'm asking you kindly to explain. I don't think it's clear, but I might just not understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u605	Thank you, Senator. Any of your senators want to ask you another question? Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u606	Minister, our Legislative Office, although it had to work under pressure of time, proposed a number of amendments: to the article. 4, 6, 9, 14, 20, there are whole teams of amendments... to the article. 53b, 73, 36, 39, 41, 47, 56, 75. Do you think that these amendments can be ignored, or do you think that they need to be adopted? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u607	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u608	As far as my opinion is concerned, confirmed by quite detailed statements from the director of the legislative and legal department of the Ministry of Justice, these amendments are not necessary, they do not change anything. In fact, they would lead to some dissonance when it comes to legislation amending other laws. As far as these amendments are concerned, I also referred to substantive amendments, because most of them are legislative and editorial amendments. As regards the substantive amendments, I also said that they would significantly alter the wording of the law and, above all, would be contradictory e.g. in one case with principles of correct and logical thinking. Therefore, in my opinion, these amendments should not be accepted by the High House. As regards the situation with regard to Article. 13 and 18, this is it, Mr. Senator, some specifics. The Chief Prosecutor shall be both the Attorney General and the National Prosecutor, as well as another Deputy Prosecutor General, or the Head, or the Head of the District Department of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. To a certain extent, they're the D.A.'s superiors. And such records must be included in the bill so that the prosecutor knows who is responsible for the activities in the organizational cell. As regards the management of the prosecutor's office, i.e. the prosecutor general, the first deputy national prosecutor and other deputy attorney general, they must also be superior prosecutors to other prosecutors or general bodies and, if so, the chief director of the Commission. It's also for IPN prosecutors to be able to run these units. These are the concepts in the D.A.'s law known for years. As far as access to justice, to the public prosecutor's office is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, well, I can say... I was the candidate for the Attorney General in the contest where D.A. Seremet won, if you don't remember. And then I said, unfortunately, whoever was the Attorney General, whoever was called to this position, wouldn't have had a real one. And he won't. The possibility of running the D.A.'s office. The introduction of cadence in the prosecution could still be understood, ladies and gentlemen, if the cadence was only the attorney general, but the introduction of cadence in lower functions in the prosecutor's office led to the fact that the district attorney As it used to be said, a nobleman on an equal voivode's homestead In fact, he could ignore orders, directions, district attorney's guidelines, district attorney's attorney, and the prosecutor's attorney's attorney-general. And the truth is, the Attorney General... I'm not a big fan of the current Attorney General because he demoted me and sent me to rest. Some might say I should be his critic, but I'm not. I believe that no matter who would be the Attorney General under this law, he would not be able to manage the prosecution effectively. And that's what caused the prosecutors to stop, in my opinion, doing basic tasks in many ways, e.g. In terms of... [[That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about.]] ...accepting a report of a crime or an efficient investigation, etc. As far as the justice system is concerned, I'm gonna allow myself a little bit of a nuisance. Unfortunately, I believe that the biggest mistake, the biggest mistake, Dear Members, in the years 2007 and 2015 in the field of the Polish judiciary was the liquidation of the Grodz courts, the Grodz departments in the regional courts, because the Grodz departments were closest to the citizens and judged in the smallest, most... [[It was your Gowin who did it.]] [[It's dark water. It's...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I don't...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u609	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. Excuse me, Minister. [[It was your Gowin who did it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. And right, and left, please calm down, ladies and gentlemen! [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I call you to order. Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u610	But please listen, ladies and gentlemen, because perhaps the Senate will show a legislative initiative in this area. I urge you... the Grodz courts that were closest to the citizens who were involved in judging in the smallest cases, in cases involving minor crimes... excuse me, not minor, only common crimes, offences, have been eliminated. And right now, the judge of the district court is looking at rape cases, he's thinking of extortion, and he's thinking, apologizing, disrupting the night's silence, or... I could say more bluntly. So he needs to know exactly three material codes, three codes of conduct. Ladies and gentlemen, no judge, no matter how he wanted to and how much he thought, will be able to exercise real and fair justice in Poland. I wish I hadn't. I think it was one of the biggest mistakes. But it doesn't have anything to do with this bill, it was just a reference... [[We'll fix it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u611	Thank you, Minister. [[It's already fixed. There's an asesura...]] Would any of you like to speak again? No. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Someone else, right? Good. Mr. Senator Augustine, then Mr. Senator Borusewicz and Mr. Senator Poslednik. Good. [[If you see a transcript, you'll see what questions...]] Senator Augustine. You're welcome. And I ask that the questions last no longer than a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u612	The Minister probably noticed, on the basis of the questions I asked, that, of course, I am most concerned about Art. 12. And since I am preparing to speak in a discussion, possibly to make an amendment, my question is this: whether it is indeed this article. 12 is simply necessary? Isn't he so that what was previously illegal, that is, bringing a prosecutor with files to the president of a party, is now possible in the majesty of the law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u613	Mr. Senator... [[But you already said that.]] Thank you for asking. Please, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u614	Minister, the bill eliminates cadence and competitions. Is that what it is? [[Then they'll say we're holding them at night.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Always adjourned.]] If so, it would be another law of the PiS government... [[Voice from the courtroom: The Marshal's will.]] ...who cancels the competitions. And because... Mrs. Marshal, I hear such pressing voices from the Senate benches, especially... [[Marshal contest.]] ...from Senator Ryszka's side... [[Mr. Senator Ryszka!]] [[Voice from the room: Mainly.]] ...who wants to be a marshal and rushes us. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So I'm saying we have time. We want to do a good job on this bill. [[Voice from the room: We are happy.]] And we're happy to ask questions. Thank you very much. [[The questions from the Sejm will be here any minute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u615	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Senator Spokesperson. [[Senator Klich is watching over it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u616	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to refer to my first question, which I did not fully receive the answer to. I asked about the need to appoint the National Department of Internal Affairs to prosecute crimes committed by judges and prosecutors in the Public Prosecutor's Office. And then I asked how many such crimes were there. The Minister replied that there was no such data. And I, by looking at opinions... [[You're young.]] ...which we received, among others. the opinion of the first Supreme Court President... It provides such information that these cases have been between 46 and 69 a year over the last five years, the vast majority of which are against security in communication. And if you can use that phrase, there's a small number. Is it worth it, therefore, according to the Minister, to set up such a special unit... [[Time.]] [[Read it a little faster.]] [[One minute.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] ...and focus on this issue?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u617	Mr. Senator, was that a question? [[Yes.]] Good. Thank you very much. [[They're gonna give him a question in a minute.]] [[He doesn't know what they're gonna report tomorrow.]] Excuse me, Minister. Mr. Senator, please be quiet. It doesn't matter. Quiet and focus, please. I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u618	To the third question, ladies and gentlemen, I will answer very briefly. Even if there's one such crime, it's worth it for such a department to exist and solve such a case. That's what I think. If there's no such thing, the department just won't work. Second line. That is indeed, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, your opinion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal reads my lips. I'm so happy for you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I understand. I'm kidding. Unfortunately, I've given in to the mood of the moment. I understand. I'm kidding. Unfortunately, I've given in to the mood of the moment. Excuse me. Mr. Marshal, when it comes to cadence and competitions... This term of office has been terminated. I think that's the solution. It's all very well-founded. 20 years there was no cadency and the prosecution acted as such. As far as competitions are concerned, competitions for the first prosecutor's office remain for the rest of them. The competitions are closed. In the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, this is also very well founded and right. National Attorney, which is worth remembering, because the state here everywhere... Excuse me, not you, it's in the media very often that the Attorney General will be promoted, whomever he wants, where he wants, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the law that the Attorney General will take all human rights decisions at the request of the national prosecutor and will therefore not be able to take any personal decision without a request, in quotes, of this expertise, of the Prosecutor of Stricto, of the Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. That's the answer to that question. Is Art. 12... I think I've already told you about it several times... [[Three times.]] But I try to be patient and patient with the senators. I think it's Art. 12 is essential for the prosecution to function properly. Let me remind you that this article does not allow anyone to carry an act of procedure, because it talks about the transmission of information, not the file. I would also remind the senators that the case referred to here in general ended in remission in the absence of any indication of a prohibited act. So both the prosecutor who was at the meeting then and the minister Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro did not commit a criminal offence. [[How many competitions...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u619	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator, I'm calling you to order. [[But you got it.]] [[Look at the clock.]] Please don't disturb me. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Minister. You ask Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz a question. Please. [[Shakespeare's gonna be a lot more interesting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u620	Mrs. Marshal, I don't see any reason for jokes or any ironic smiles, because this bill is simply very difficult, let's call it delicate. I'm gonna use the form of question for my opinion that I'm making for the protocol because of history's assessment of the night. Well, this is the opinion: we, the senators, are absolutely not prepared for this debate, and this is the fault... [[I can tell by the questions.]] I don't know whose. Speed, speed, which is not needed at all. And because there are regulations that say we could get three days, but the rules also say you can give it in two days... One says... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'll be done in a minute and there'll be a question. [[I'm asking you a question. Opinions will be in the discussion.]] It will be, it will be. Yeah, yeah. I therefore have a question as to whether you share my opinion. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Rzeczpospolita gore!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u621	Ladies and gentlemen, who among your senators would like to ask you another question? Senator Wach, please... Anyone else from the senators? [[And Marshal Borusewicz.]] Mr. Senator! Mr. Senator! [[We like Senator Ryszka.]] [[Mr. Senator, do you want to take over my question? Then go ahead, I'll...]] Quiet, please! Quiet, please! Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet and be serious. [[I'd miss that question.]] You ask Senator Wach a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u622	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: That's so-called. Stupid.]] It concerns art. 38 Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office, in which it is actually stated that the Attorney General and the National Prosecutor may be assisted by advisers, including social advisers. In relation to this article, the President of the Supreme Court expressed doubts and reservations. Please kindly explain whether this is a completely new institution and what roles the advisors would play. At the same time, the President of the Court notes that the fact that it is written here, including social advisers, means that it can be professional advisers paid. Please explain this matter kindly, and in particular what role should these advisers play in front of the Attorney General and the national prosecutors.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u623	Thank you very much, Senator. Any of your senators want to ask you another question? I don't see any calls. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u624	Ladies and gentlemen, I answer Senator Fedorovich's question. [[Yeah, I'm very interested in that.]] I don't share that opinion. [[Thank you. It's logged in.]] Yes, sir. As far as advisors are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, advisors are to advise as the name suggests. Professional and social advisors are to advise the prosecutor general and the national prosecutor. As far as retired judges and prosecutors are concerned, it should be assumed that they will be social advisers, as they will at the same time receive high pensions. So if you need it, for example. on the occasion of the fight against the mob or so-called. a tax carousel to benefit from the assistance of a financial, economic, tax advisor, this agreement will be concluded. At the moment, in the ministries, such persons are acting as ministers' advisors, ministers' advisers or ministers' experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u625	Thank you very much, Minister. Anybody else want to ask a question? I don't see... Mr. Marshal? Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u626	Yes, on a clear suggestion from Senator Ryszka. I'd like to ask you a question about the possibility of disabling the D.A. From what the Minister has said, it's a possibility to turn it off. There's also a disciplinary procedure that such a prosecutor may be subject to. So basically, any prosecutor can disable himself under the threat of disciplinary procedure... Is it possible for a national prosecutor to give orders to this lowest level? Does this bill allow it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u627	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u628	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Any of your senators want to ask you another question? That's probably the last question. Please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[And that's how it is...]] [[Oh, no, no, Mr. Senator... you'll be sitting still, Mr. Senator. We can stay up all night.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Bogdan Święczkowski: I have already answered this question.)]] Mr. Marshal, the Minister has already given an answer. Ladies and gentlemen, no further questions. I'm opening... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u629	Minister, you're taking out the U.S. Attorney's office. What if there's martial law? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: It is highly probable.]] Are you going to uniform these prosecutors? Is there any way this D.A.'s office is gonna work?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u630	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Are any of your senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Any of your senators want to ask you another question. No. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u631	The rules provide for such a situation. In such a case, where necessary, prosecutors who are reserve officers may be appointed for a fixed period of professional military service. Ladies and gentlemen, each of you, citizens of the Republic of Poland, if necessary, have an obligation to perform military, professional or non-professional service. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u632	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening a joint discussion. Senator Bogdan Klich will be the first to speak. I would remind you that discussions should not last more than 10 minutes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u633	Mrs. Marshal, I'm sure this speech won't last more than 10 minutes because we've already told each other about most of these things. I would just like to sort out the arguments that are in favour of rejecting this law and encourage the rule of law, colleagues and senators to really seriously reconsider them during the debate and before the vote. Namely, I would like to point out that, however, something that was the advantage of the prosecution in Poland, whether or not it was connected... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Would you mind not disturbing me, Mr. Marshal? [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please be quiet, because everyone is tired, so let's focus and listen to the voices in the discussion. You're welcome, Senator.]] Thank you very much. Well, something that was the advantage of the prosecutor's office both before and after the reform in 2009, whether or not it was connected with the government, namely, the prosecutor's independence is at a very serious risk. I call it a serious restriction on prosecutorial independence. Some experts even say that it becomes fictional, because it is written in this law, but everything indicates that it will not be. What other thing than not restricting prosecutorial independence is that every superior, and the direct one, and the senior one, including the Attorney General, who doesn't necessarily have to be a prosecutor by education, can issue dispositions, orders binding on the prosecutor? The issuing of such instructions, not only regarding form but also content of the preparatory proceedings, is a radical restriction of prosecutorial independence. That's one thing. Secondly, something that is very disturbing to us, and what we had in 2005-2007, bad examples, examples stigmatized by the public, examples that were very often shown as shortcomings in the functioning of that system, is a matter of remove the secrecy of the preparatory proceedings. Where it is possible for public authorities, but also unidentified persons not specified in the Act, to be able to do so I understand that individuals should be provided with information about the course of the proceedings, which means that what is a sine qua non condition of effective conduct, the mystery of this procedure, is radically contested. There will be no secrecy if this provision is maintained in the draft law if this project becomes applicable law. And the general clause, which is applied in this case, i.e. the security of the state and, in particular, the functioning of the State, is such a broad concept that it can be applied to any circumstances. Thirdly, as pointed out in its opinion by the Attorney General I'll call it in. The changes in the organizational structure of the prosecutor's office consist not only in replacing the Public Prosecutor's Office with the National Public Prosecutor's Office, the prosecutor's office of appeal by the regional prosecutors, and in fact raises the question of whether they do not lead to verification of whether they lead to the serving of prosecutors who will be politically loyal to those who might be independent. Such verifications were dealt with in the past, before 1989. I'm asking the question. The Attorney General formulates this very precisely, and I quote: the real reason for this change is not organisational or substantive, but the desire to carry out the verification of the staff of the current units. Thirdly, or fourthly, as was also mentioned, exemption from the disciplinary responsibility of the prosecutor because of, quote, the social interest is also problematic. Accordingly, it does not constitute a disciplinary offence or a failure to act, I quote the provision, which is only in the public interest. What does it mean to stop acting or act in the public interest? This can only be defined by a superior, and such a definition is a completely discretionary definition. If it is not enshrined in the Act, it means that the Act allows the possibility to determine this particular social interest. And this social interest could be the interests of a political party or a political interest of an environment. Finally, I would like to say this at the end of the day, this is a matter of the full power of the Attorney General in the office of prosecutors. I don't mind if the Attorney General, as head of this six thousandth institution, has the right to choose co-workers. I don't mind him choosing those who meet the conditions of the position in substance. But if the competition procedure is only used when designating for the first prosecutor's office, and in addition it may still be repealed, then where are these requirements, then where are these conditions, where is the description of this position, then where are the criteria that such prosecutor must meet? In this case, we are also faced with full discretion from the Attorney General. All of this makes this bill a complement, a kind of completion of the bill, which, unfortunately, he voted on. The Senate at the request of Law and Justice yesterday, namely the Surveillance Act. And just as the Surveillance Act allows you to collect hooks on ordinary citizens, so this law will allow these hooks to be skillfully used against ordinary citizens. And that's what we're most afraid of. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's not from this bill, it's from the Police Act.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u634	Senator Rybicki. I invite you to speak in the debate... [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] Yes, I'm listening. [[There's a motion.]] [[Formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u635	Mr. Marshal... Well, now there's a microphone on. [[In what mode?]] I'd like to... Who's asking? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I'm asking.]] And in what mode? [[Formal conclusion.]] In what mode? [[I'm asking you in what mode.]] But no. What marshal do you ask? [[I'm asking in what mode? I'm asking.]] Mr. Marshal, come on. [[I'm just curious.]] Oh, I'm the one who's curious. I would like to make a formal request, Mr Marshal, to postpone this debate until 10 a.m. [[Tomorrow.]] For tomorrow... [[For today.]] For today, I'm sorry. [[No, you can do it tomorrow.]] Maybe tomorrow, like... [[No, for today.]] [[Voice from the hall: For today, for today.]] For today, seriously. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You don't work on Sundays.]] [[It can't be, it can't be. You're not working?]] [[I've got a motion against it. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u636	Mr. Marshal Karczewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u637	I think that the debate is so interesting and interesting, and it is already in the final phase, that there is no reason to interrupt it. [[Voice from the hall: But we still have speeches.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We're voting!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u638	I'm declaring a five-minute break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Adjournment in the sitting from 2 minutes 04 to 2 minutes 10]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. We'll proceed with the vote. Your request for a recess by tomorrow to an hour... until today at 10 a.m., you have reported Senator Blackobay. Who's in favour of Senator Czarnobaj's request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 41 votes cast, 13 votes against, 28 votes against. [[Voting No 8]] We're continuing our deliberations. Please take the floor in the discussion... [[Voices from the room: Quorum is gone. There's no quorum!]] [[There is no need for this in the debate.]] There's no requirement to continue... [[How's it gone?]] Because... [[There's no need for that. It's a matter of protocol. Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure that there must be a quorum during the debate?]] Since the senator's request has not been settled, we are continuing. [[What do you mean, where... isn't it written in the rules?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It's a formal matter!]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u639	In the presence of how many senators can we continue our deliberations? [[Two.]] [[Voice in the O.R.: Zero.]] [[Sir...]] Zero? Well, that's great. Mr. Marshal, this is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Quorum to vote only.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u640	Stop, stop. Mr. Marshal, please... [[Many times it was so that no one was in the room during the discussion!]] But please calm down! I address you to Marshal Borusewicz. You raised your hand and came forward on a formal matter, but your statement was not a formal request. We're continuing our deliberations. Please take the floor in the Senator's discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u641	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must begin my speech with the word 'unfortunately', because unfortunately we are part of the House of the Higher Parliament in building an unsavory tradition of proceding important laws in unnecessary haste, without proper reflection, without the necessary deep reflection on the Parliament's submissions, and it is important laws which circumvent the procedure of public consultation, disregard the opinions of the competent authorities and experts. And yet, the law on the prosecutor's office, like the previous laws, especially the law on the Constitutional Court or the police, have enormous systemic importance. Today we are debating a bill that will have far-reaching consequences for the state and citizens. The amendment of the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office adopted by the Sejm ends the time of independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office and introduces solutions that make the Public Prosecutor's Office government. Yes, combining the role of the Minister of Justice, a member of the government, an active policy of the ruling party, with the function of the Attorney General of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and making it fully dependent on the government. However, the public office of the Attorney General should be independent and prevent any pressure, and responsibility to the constitutional authorities of the State should be strictly regulated by the system. The Attorney General should have personal guarantees to ensure full independence, while the prosecution should be created by independent, experienced prosecutors appointed on the basis of objective criteria not to arouse suspicion of promotion for compliance with the views and expectations of the current governing political party. In this context, the provision of the Article draws attention. 50 law introducing a law on the prosecutor's office, whereby the terms of office of district attorneys and district attorneys expire. This opens the way for personal changes in all relevant positions in the D.A.'s office. Is this supposed to be announced in the election campaign of Law and Justice a good change, or is it a hidden review of prosecutors? High Izbo, the law introduces a great deal of solutions that rightly raise opposition to legal environments, institutions that have opinions on the project of non-governmental organisations, including the National Public Prosecutor's Council That law is being abolished, and, after all, the Council was a body that was responsible for the independence of prosecutors and prosecutors, and was also consulted on the personal decisions of the prosecutor general. In its place, a facade advisory council is proposed. Do these solutions increase the independence of the prosecutor's office? The Constitution of the Republic of Poland places the Attorney General as a separate body of the State, not as a minister and a member of the Government. Therefore, serious constitutional doubts will arise in a situation in which the Attorney General is a party to legal proceedings and, at the same time, as Minister of Justice, he is the senior officer of the judge in charge of the case. There may also be serious conflicts of interest, as I asked the Minister. What will happen in the event that the Attorney General acts before the Constitutional Tribunal, giving an opinion on the constitutionality of the law drawn up in the Ministry of Justice? Will he judge himself? Here was the answer to that question, but it does not satisfy us, Minister. The independence of prosecutors and prosecutors should also be assessed in the context of many other controversial laws. They were the subject of questions and answers today. I will recall some of them: e.g. a provision giving the prosecutor-general the opportunity to order the prosecutor investigating a specific procedural action concerning the lodging of a plea or the initiation of proceedings, the application for arrest; or any provision which gives the prosecutor the right to order the investigator to carry out operational and exploratory activities, in a situation where neither the police nor the prosecutor himself saw the need for such action. Why or to whom the recipe is to serve We've already talked about this today, too, on the basis of which prosecutors will be able to share files from the investigation not only to their superiors, but also to third parties? Who did the designers mean? Who's the third person? The provision of the Article is also worrying. 12, in the light of which the Attorney General will be able to provide the media with information on the ongoing preparatory proceedings, and many other provisions that the senators have asked in this Chamber, not always with a substantive answer. Experts are alerting that the authority of the prosecutor's office to issue orders will limit or even eliminate the independence of the prosecutor's office. They're also alerting that there's a general clause in the bill. And always when in the domain of public law, and criminal law in particular, there are inconspicuous, judgmental general clauses, e.g. With an important social interest, it doesn't bode well. An independent prosecution is an integral part of the democratic rule of law. This law eliminates this independence. This solution must raise our concerns and raise concerns of Poles, because if you look at the provisions of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the provisions adopted yesterday on the Police Act, there is an image of the state which allows almost complete freedom on the part of the authorities of this State in the field of surveillance of its citizens. High Izbo, unfortunately, is a solution, these laws dangerously move Poland from the position of a democratic state of law towards a police state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u642	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u643	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I would like to say that Mr. Marshal has violated the rules of procedure, claiming that it is possible to continue the proceedings, even though the request for interruption has not been settled. Art. 3 (1) (a) 1 provides: The Senate shall adopt resolutions by simple majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators... [[But it's resolutions! Resolutions!]] ...unless otherwise provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the laws or the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. [[But it's not with the motion vote.]] Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2.: The provision of paragraph 2. 1 shall apply to the vote on the formal proposals. [[Oh, are those the requirements?]] [[Well, then the marshal will go to jail.]] Someone didn't read their lips. 2. To this day, this provision has been applied. [[Exactly.]] And he's bright. I want to protest against breaking the rules on this matter. [[We need to report this to the D.A.'s office.]] [[Mr. Marshal!]] [[About the formal part?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You're welcome.]] I don't know who gave you that interpretation. [[Nobody has to push...]] [[You're welcome to continue.]] Thank you very much. And now for the D.A.'s office bill. I also don't know why we have to sit at night, I don't know why we have to sit at 2.20. Is something going on in the Polish country? [[So long the questions have been asked.]] Is it just that the PiS wants to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Or is it just that, for unknown reasons, the PiS wants to pass this bill immediately? And in such a situation, in the case of such laws, it is an unacceptable practice. And it's gonna hit you who rule and make laws after night. Dear Minister, I would like to say that the controversy around this law is not less than the controversy around the bill that we voted on the previous day, namely the amendment of the Police Act. The National Judicial Council, the Attorney General, the National Chamber of Legal Counsels, the General Data Protection Officer, and the National Public Prosecutor's Council were critical of this law. A number of comments and a critical assessment of this law were also presented by the Office for Sejm Analysis. I understand that these opinions mean nothing to you. They're only opinions. And it could be said that such an opinion or a given opinion is of little importance if it were one opinion. Art. The 12 Senators of the Minister asked so precisely... They didn't ask for no reason. I will mention a few comments from these opinions. National Judicial Council: the Council's assessment lacks sufficient grounds for reconnecting these functions I mean, as Minister of Justice and as Prosecutor General. The opinion of the Sejm Analysis Bureau, the Sejm opinion: the separation of the functions of the prosecutor general and the Minister of Justice implements the request to strengthen the independence of the prosecutor's office and creates instruments to protect against political pressure. Another opinion speaks the same way. And that's what those opinions say one at a time. That I'm not going to quote anymore. As regards the merger of functions. So that's another opinion that's the same thing. Art. 12, which makes it possible to communicate information to others and who have met with very harsh criticism. The matter of the possibility for the Attorney General to provide information to the media, information which, even if it turns out to be false, will not be answered by the prosecutor because there is a legal provision in another place that repeals such liability. It's not acceptable. What I'm saying is that the Attorney General gets insight and influence on all decisions of the lowest level prosecutors, he can give orders, and the lower level prosecutor can't disable himself if he doesn't agree with the order for an arrest, an indictment. It cannot be avoided because it is faced with disciplinary responsibility for repealing it. The final decision shall be taken by his superior or his superior. These are situations that make us unable to vote in favour of such a law. Elimination of competitions for prosecutors' positions, liquidation of cadence You can appoint all those who are in favour of the PiS or the government and remove all those who have any other opinion or wish to be independent. These changes are not made without cause. The fact that you can give information to other people and not take any responsibility for it... This is the case that the Minister reminded me of... [[Time's up, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm almost done. This is a case... Minister Ziobro of the Prosecutor of Miłoszewski took him to the President of Kaczyński to inform about the investigation. It's also a media release. This is an example of prosecutor Engelking, which we all remember. Issue Commands That's D.A. Janicka... [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] ...who threatened a low-level prosecutor to postpone the arrest of Minister July to post-election... [[Mr. Marshal, time's up.]] ...so that the PiS... that this information is not disclosed before the election. It's all coming together, of course. I'm not saying it makes sense. But that explains why you need these changes and what direction you want to go. This is not a good direction for Poland, maybe for the PiS yes, but not for Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u644	Mr. Senator Gawada. You're welcome to discuss it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u645	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We're taking a very important bill, a law on the prosecution's office. In this law, as has already been strongly emphasised here, a significant change is the combination of the function of the Attorney General with the office of the Minister of Justice. This law strengthens the responsibility of the Minister of Justice for all matters relating to the supervision of the performance of criminal prosecution tasks, as well as matters involving the exercise of supervision by cooperating with state authorities, state agencies in the prevention of crime and other infringements of law. We honestly say here that we have our own concept for the functioning of the prosecutor's office in Poland The prosecutor's office, which has not been effective so far. We honestly also say that dependence in the prosecution's office, if you can even talk about dependence, is in the area of the functioning of the prosecutor's office itself, not individual prosecutors, necessary and legitimate. We have a different opinion, a different view of the role of Minister of Justice, which he should have, and now he will have A tool to control the prosecution because it ultimately answers to the sovereign, i.e. the voter, and it's the voter who will judge him. In its essence, therefore, the concept of the prosecution must be hierarchical. But there are signs of bad will in this room. Because if we're talking about serious laws, like yesterday about the Police Act, and however much to look at one of the most important government officials, the constitutional minister is talking about this bill, that it's a surveillance bill... I'm sorry, I don't see Senator Klich, and I'm directing those words to him. I haven't read that definition anywhere. Therefore, if we are talking about serious matters, let us also not underestimate what we are doing in the High House. Because these signs of lack of goodwill right here are not lacking in this courtroom today. Hundreds I may have overreacted that hundreds, but really dozens of questions were repeated questions that were answered correctly. And really, from the answer of the Minister who gave them here, there was a great deal of will to answer all these questions carefully and patiently. I'm moving on to the bill. I would like to stress that the activities of the Attorney General are open and transparent. Here, too, the Senators of the opposition have questioned this, and that is simply the result of the article. 11: The Attorney General shall provide the Sejm and the Senate with a clear annual information on the total number of persons subject to a request to order checks on the fixation of interviews or a request for control. The Act strengthens the position and organisation of the prosecution's work, as referred to in Section II of Article. 13: The Attorney General is the superior of the prosecutors of the general organizational units of the prosecution and prosecutors of the Institute of National Remembrance. In the law to strengthen control and supervision of individuals, it is Article. 30, the national prosecutor, in the area of his activity, may also order the regional and district prosecutor to visit the office of the prosecutor's office in order to control the performance of his statutory tasks to a certain extent. Of course, the law gives instruments because it must give such instruments to better fight organised crime. Organised crime is increasingly happening. And let's not underestimate that. And all we still hear is that the bill is political, not substantive, that it deviates, that it takes away, that it leads to a restriction on the freedom of prosecution by prosecutors. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 35 It is clear that it is the Minister of Justice, by means of a regulation, that creates and abolishes the local departments of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office, regional, district and district prosecutors and establishes their seat and areas of jurisdiction, with a view to effectively combating crime and ensuring the efficiency of proceedings. This law allows for cooperation in combating and preventing such crime, which is also very important today. I would like to conclude by referring once again to Senator Klich's statement, which shows that the prosecution will lose its independence and that - If I remember correctly. This will result badly in the course of the investigation. I don't know if I put it right, but that's more or less the point. I will ask the rhetorical question and let each of us answer this question: how has the prosecution been evaluated so far in terms of its effectiveness and so-called independence? Is there a Member State in the European Union where prosecutorial proceedings are so much longer in time? If the D.A.'s office has worked so well over the last few years, why would Prime Minister Tusk want to change it two years ago and combine it? Then why haven't we been over today and explained the various issues, including fuel accidents? Why is the state so weak through its institutions, through the prosecutor's office, chasing a lot of very serious issues? I'm just gonna mention one thing. I wrote down some source information about Amber Gold's affair. Of course, it will be very uncomfortable for many to talk about it, but that's what you just have to say today, that's what you have to talk about. Why then, in January 2010, did the prosecution of Gdańsk-Wrzeszcz refuse to initiate proceedings? The Financial Supervision Board filed a complaint with the court which ordered the prosecution to investigate. It was in April. And as early as May of the same year, which is as soon as possible, the prosecution begins to work and, after three months, the proceedings are terminated. The court again, this time precisely, indicates what actions the prosecutor should take. So? There's a batting ball. Is that supposed to be how the D.A.'s office works? Isn't it worth saying today that the D.A., the Minister of Justice, takes responsibility for this? And he should take responsibility for the prosecution to actually fight crime effectively. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u646	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u647	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Before I speak to Senator Gawada, I'd like to say... I'll try to start at this hour a little pathetic: well, the Senate sounds proud. When four years ago I came here with great pride, I came here to participate in the process of lawmaking. Not as a lawyer, the one who comes with experience, know, but I came to participate in something called the democratic process of lawmaking. I've asked the professor, and I'm sure the professor will answer here in this debate... If this is the process of creating democratic law in Poland, it is probably necessary to start defining concepts in this country. [[In our country.]] Please? [[In our country.]] I'm sorry, in our country. In our country, in Poland. In our country. And I remember when in the previous term of office there were also shorter deadlines and the club president, Senator Martynowski, as independence defended vacathio legis, deadlines, then I said: Marku, well, you're right, but you know, this one bill... But I didn't think I'd be participating in what we're doing right now. Opinions We don't even get to know them. You say that opinions are only opinions, and we have an opinion, and you're presenting somebody who gives that opinion. Therefore, I think that these synonyms of the High Chamber, the Chamber of Reflection, the Senate, through this kind of action, through such the creation of law and such a right... Let me put it this way: it is meaningless in the Polish parliamentarianism of the proud word of the Senate. And now, before I go on to the next issue, a few words about what Senator Gazweda was talking about. I wanted to mark it again because maybe it didn't exactly sound like it. None of us... Maybe I'll say for myself: I'm not defending what I've done so far, regardless of the period during which, but for 25 years, the Polish Public Prosecutor's Office has been doing. And you have 100%. You're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, Too long-standing proceedings, public opinion, etc... There is no doubt that this is discipline, an area that needs to be improved in this country. [[In our country.]] In our country, Jesus... In our country, the D.A.'s office needs to be improved. [[And that's what we do.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Applause]] Except this correction by your prosecutor's office in our country looks as follows. You notice that drivers often leave one of the roads badly, so you close this road. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Wait, come on. Therefore, I would simply like to say: Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of Law and Justice, do not go this way. I will remind you once again that this is not just about opinions abroad about Poland... I will remind you, for those who were not at the meeting yesterday morning, that the Freedom House Foundation recognised Poland as a country for which a process will be conducted on the question of whether we are a free, partially free or not free country. In the great company of Angola, the Republic of Congo, Venezuela, etc., etc. But that can also be ignored. For me, it is also not a problem whether the Attorney General will be in the rank of Minister and whether he will also act as Minister. This is a secondary matter for me. It is important to know what defence instruments the ordinary citizen has in relation to authority. And I want to tell you that even in Russia... [[The voice from Putinowska's room.]] ...is that the Attorney General appoints the Federation Council. So what we're talking about here isn't, I think, the best solution, to say the least. The records of these draft laws will make them come back again. A conference of the kind, so to speak, give me a man, and the paragraph will be upon him. These billings give you exactly the same possibilities. And when you look at all the police-related laws, the law on the prosecution, and add to that the three gentlemen I was talking about, as well as Minister Święczkowski, Minister Ziobro, Minister Kaminski, Minister Wąsik, plus what was proposed here, you can say that there's a joke coming back at 6:00 a.m. someone knocks on the door, his husband gets up, looks out the window and says to his wife: sleep peacefully, they're just thieves. And I think this is the atmosphere you want to restore to this country. [[In our country.]] [[Voice from the room: Poland.]] [[Voice from the hall: In our country.]] [[Voice from the hall: In the country.]] In our country. In our homeland. Thank you for the hint. So I would like to ask you to reflect a little on what is involved in this bill. She gives such opportunities, in conjunction with laws on police, wiretapping, surveillance, etc., etc., etc. The citizen becomes vulnerable. And finally, I'd like to dedicate to you... I would like to hear what Benjamin Franklin once said in our country: that democracy is when two wolves and sheep vote what to eat for dinner You can ask who's the sheep and who's the wolf... [[Yeah, of course.]] ...and freedom is when a well-armed sheep undermines the outcome of the vote and has the opportunity to defend itself. Today a citizen of the Republic of Poland can be, or is actually written in the following statement: give me a citizen, and the paragraph will be on him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u648	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: One more time?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u649	I'd like to make a formal motion. However, we are very tired, and yet a large number of speakers are waiting for the opportunity to give a speech. We're tired. The Minister is tired, too. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Bogdan Święczkowski: No, absolutely!]] But we want to let you go home. [[Voice from the O.R.: We'll support you.]] [[Voice from the hall: The Minister has good will.]] So I'm filing for a recess. I wanted her to be here by 10:00, but it seems like some kind of... [[Voice from the room: No, until 9:00.]] By 9:00, right? Okay. [[No, till 10:00.]] By 10:00.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u650	But we can't... Mr. Marshal, they will not be able to hold, as we planned, committee meetings at 8:00 p.m., because we have not completed the examination of this point. So why don't we start... [[9:00.]] Maybe we should take a break by 9:00. [[By 10 a.m., the committee's meeting will be later.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: There will be no committee meetings...]] [[Voice from the room: Commissions can...]] [[I'm calling...]] [[How, how?]] [[Voice from the room: 10 o'clock, then.]] [[By 10:00. I'm calling...]] Good. [[By 10:00.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u651	I'm requesting a recess. It's 2:45 right now. I'm filing for a recess... [[Voice from the room: The meeting was scheduled to be held until 3 a.m.]] ...until 10:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-senat-09-2.u652	I'm calling a recess until 10:00. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] [[Adjournment at the meeting at 2 minutes 45]]
