ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Adam Andruszkiewicz, Marcin Duszek, Krzysztof Kubow and Arkadiusz Marchewka to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part will be attended by Marcin Duszek and Krzysztof Kubów. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marcin Souszek and Arkadiusz Carrot. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws (print No 965). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u2	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the law on value added tax and certain other laws is a government project. In addition to the amendment of the law on tax on goods and services, this proposal also provides for amendments to the tax Code and Tax Order. The proposed solutions represent a further step towards the recovery of VAT revenues. The aim of the proposed solutions is to seal the VAT system, to ensure greater stability of VAT receipts, to restore fair competition on the market by eliminating unfair operators from trading. In addition, the project includes provisions allowing a wide range of businesses to benefit from the VAT exemption. It is proposed to increase the turnover limit for sales eligible for exemption from 150 000. PLN to 200,000. zł. Small businesses, when exempt, are not required to issue VAT invoices, to settle taxes or to keep detailed sales records. The proposed solution is a simplification of the settlement of the smallest enterprises. The Act also provides for amendments aimed at bringing the provisions of the Act on value added tax more fully into line with the provisions of Directive 2006/12/EC as regards tax exemption, inter alia. insurance services in connection with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 17 March 2016 in Case C-40/15 Aspiro SA. The proposed provisions also complement the regulation on centralisation of VAT settlements in local government units. In view of the fact that entities whose activities are not related to business activities may register for VAT purposes, but are geared towards VAT fraud by placing empty invoices on the market, it is necessary to identify them as soon as possible, prevent them from registering or quickly registering taxable persons. Therefore, the draft provides for the introduction of provisions enabling the registration of such entities to be refused after verification of the information contained in their registration. In view of the importance of keeping the VAT register as current as possible in terms of both the protection of the interests of the state budget and the protection of honest taxpayers for whom the register is the basis for the first verification of their counterparties, the draft lists situations in which tax authorities will remove from the register entities which should not be included in it, either because of the actual cessation of the activities taxed or because of the activities which are difficult to assign to economic activities. In addition, the draft decided in a decisive manner to remove from the VAT register the entities issuing the so-called "taxpayers'. empty invoices and consciously involved in fraud or tax fraud aimed at obtaining undue property benefits at the expense of the Treasury. To prevent the recording of so-called. the posts by the agents were proposed to impose joint and several liability on the representatives of the entity starting the business. The liability of the representative would concern the tax arrears arising from the activities carried out during the first half of the year for registration and would be limited to cases where they result from the unfair settlement of VAT in order to confer a financial advantage, i.e. tax fraud. The proxy would respond jointly and severally to the amount of 500,000. zł. The project provides for the elimination of quarterly settlements for large taxpayers and those who start carrying out activities taxed for the first year. This solution will provide timely information to the tax authorities and will end the use of unconsolidated settlement periods for the seller and buyer in tax fraud-oriented activities. In addition, it will translate into the stability of the monthly revenue of the state budget. Accelerating the analysis of fiscal data will result in an obligation to submit VAT declarations only by electronic means. This is the case in stages: from 1 January, taxpayers making intra-Community transactions will be required to supply national supplies or purchase in reverse charge systems and those who are required under separate rules to submit documents, including. settlement declarations by electronic means. The remaining taxpayers will be covered by this obligation on 1 January 2018. The summary information submitted by taxable persons carrying out intra-Community transactions and subject to the reverse charge regime will also be submitted only for monthly periods and sent exclusively by electronic means. Another element of the sealing package is the clarification of the VAT refund rules. The project provides for additional conditions for receipt of reimbursement on an accelerated 25-day deadline. This will only be possible for taxpayers whose credibility could already be verified, i.e. registered for at least one year and making tax returns during that period. In view of the operational arrangements of the competent services, the time limit may also be extended to 3 months when the Chief of Police, Head of the Central Anti-corruption Office, Head of the Internal Security Agency or Prosecutor General makes such a request in connection with the proceedings. The draft law proposed to the House proposes to extend the application of the reverse charge mechanism to further goods. This is one of the important instruments aimed at combating VAT fraud, whose effectiveness has been confirmed both by the analyses carried out and by the control activities carried out. The tax in this mechanism is settled by the buyer, not by the seller. In view of the irregularities observed in the market for construction services in the field of VAT, including by means of invoices which do not reflect the actual transaction, it is proposed to include a substantial part of the transactions in the area of construction services. In addition, due to the increasing problem of fraud in the market so-called. electronics has been proposed to include this instrument of transactions which are the subject of processors, and it is proposed here to provide for a functioning solution for other electronics goods such as portable computers, mobile phones, gaming consoles, setting a quota limit of 20,000. zł for the application of this measure. At the same time, the proposal provides for a comprehensive regulation of the rules on the taxation of goods in the categories of gold, silver and platinum already partly covered by the reverse charge mechanism and partly by the institution of joint and several liability. For these goods, the reverse charge mechanism will be settled. As regards joint and several liability institutions, it is proposed to extend it to transactions involving stretch film and hard drives. The proposed bill proposes to modify the institution of joint and several liability and the guarantee deposit in order to make it more effective. The additional conditions that must apply for the purchaser to be freed from joint and several liability for the seller's tax obligations are the compulsory payment without cash and, in the case of fuels, purchase them from entities licensed under the relevant concession required in the performance of that activity. Since one of the conditions excluding joint and several liability of the purchaser is the acquisition of goods from a taxable person who has lodged a guarantee deposit, it is important that the list includes entities guaranteeing that his tax obligations can be regulated. Therefore, a seller who is in the course of restructuring, insolvency or liquidation proceedings cannot be notified to the list of entities. In addition, such entity must authorise the bank or cooperative credit and savings bank, which maintains the account indicated in the identification declaration, to provide tax authorities or tax control authorities with information on all transactions made in that account. Another solution aimed at eliminating VAT is the introduction of tax sanctions for incorrect VAT clearance. The project assumes that the control authority will determine the amount of this obligation in the correct amount and will set an additional tax liability of 30%. the amounts of irregularities found. Tax fraud will be treated with all severity, including the so-called issue of tax fraud. empty invoices. The penalty applied in this case is increased to 100%. It should be noted that the sanctioning institution is not a new solution and has already operated in the VAT Act until 30 November 2008. It is primarily preventive and seeks to convince taxpayers that it is in their interest to properly and diligently fill in tax returns and to stress that attempts to commit fraud by means of an empty invoice will be severely punished. In addition to the above-mentioned VAT sealing and penalising arrangements carried out by taxable persons, the amendments provided for in the Tax Criminal Code concerning the tightening of sanctions for persons involved in tax fraud should be added. In particular, it is proposed that sanctions be imposed on specific situations where a person puts up so-called. empty invoices or use them to deduct tax. This act would also be punishable by imprisonment. It should be noted here that when the issuer of the invoice is so-called. pole, i.e. an entity that has virtually no assets, imposing a financial penalty on it does not have the desired effect because it cannot be enforced. However, such entities must not remain unpunished. The tightening of sanctions is primarily preventive and is intended to discourage participation in this activity. The proposed amendments to the Tax Order are a consequence of the amendment to the VAT Act and provide for the non-application of an increased rate of interest for tax arrears when VAT has already imposed a tax sanction. In addition, the changes in the Tax Order are linked to the extension of the institution of joint and several liability to the taxable person's agent whose registration has been filed by him, and to the addition of a provision allowing verification of the correctness of the refund of the tax difference not only through verification of the taxpayer's accounts, but also by verifying the accounts of other taxable persons involved in the trading of the goods or services which are the subject of the taxpayer's settlement. The proposed changes are also due to the elimination of taxpayers' ability to settle on goods and services other than small taxpayers for quarterly periods. The introduction of the measures discussed to increase the effectiveness of the fight against fraud should lead to a faster elimination from the economic market of operators who are not willing to pay or refund VAT due. This is expected, above all, by honest entrepreneurs who are severely affected by unfair competition. These actions will improve the business environment of honest taxpayers. The proposed measures to improve VAT collection are expected to reduce the tax gap by 2 percentage points, resulting in a positive annual budgetary impact of PLN 3400 million. Given that the proposed sealing solutions will only produce results in the following years, the proposed project proposes to maintain the current rate of VAT at 8% and 23% until 31 December 2018 The scale of fraud and its harm to honest entrepreneurs in the economy of the state budget are in favour of introducing the proposed solutions as soon as possible. The draft law indicates here the date of 1 January 2017. The entry into force of the law at the beginning of the year also calls for the possibility of covering a wider group of small businesses with VAT exemption as soon as possible as a result of an increase in the turnover limit for this exemption. On the other hand, the entry into force of the regulations supplementing the centralisation of VAT in local government units is foreseen at 1 January 2018. In presenting the above, I kindly ask the High House to refer this proposal to further legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bubula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the draft law on the amendment of the law on goods and services and among others, contained in print No. 965. amendments to the Tax Code Act. The aim of this project is primarily to seal the VAT collection system and protect the Polish state from losses caused by loss of influence from this tax as a result of its extortion on a huge scale. Experts are talking about the scale of fraud of 50 billion a year, which represents about 1/3 of all the proceeds from this tax. VAT is the largest single source of budgetary revenue and the loss of revenue caused by fraud is equal to or even greater than the budget deficit. If it had not been uncontrolled during the previous term, under the rule of the Civic Platform, the increase in VAT fraud, we would have had a situation that would have brought us closer to a balanced state budget at the moment. Already in 2016, due to the first legislative decisions related to the sealing of VAT collection, there was a significant increase in revenue from this tax compared to one year to one year. These actions have shown that unfair practices can be effectively countered, acting within the framework of European law and without prejudice to small and medium-sized honest taxpayers. This will also be the result of work on the project submitted by the government. It is worth mentioning that a tight and equal tax system, which is therefore a fair tax system, is a lower burden for citizens and fair competition for companies. Moreover, on behalf of the government, you made a kind of undertaking in this case, saying that, in view of higher VAT revenues, it would be possible in the future to return to the previous lower rates of that tax. Of the proposed solutions, the proposal to extend the so-called system deserves attention. reverse VAT burden on those goods and services, which are particularly vulnerable to fraud, often taking a form of large-scale organised and millions of zlotys. An important element here is the use of column companies, non-asset companies, which form a chain of transactions and a system of so-called. empty invoices. The project proposes e.g. extension of Annex 11 to new types of goods and services, supplementing the list covered by the reverse charge. This extension includes e.g. Unwrought silver or in semi-finished form, in primary forms or in semi-finished form, of a sample of less than 0,325 , similarly, stone jewelry with a sample of less than 0,325 , similarly platinum with the same ww. properties as well as processors used in electronic equipment. It is worth noting that CPU transactions will only be subject to a reverse charge on VAT when the limit of 20,000 is exceeded. zł. This approach shows that the government takes into account the demands and needs of smaller taxpayers in the project. The same applies to this element of the Act, which concerns an increase in the limit on VAT-free turnover. The same applies to the system of penalties provided for in the Tax Code. Here, the very severe consequences relate to transactions that amount to millions of zlotys, with the possibility of joint and several liability and relief of penalties for cooperation with state authorities in the detection of members of the crime in order to break down the solidarity of organised crime. In addition to the abovementioned extension of Annex 11 we will also work on the new text of Annex 14, to which greenhouse gas emission allowances services are transferred, with the addition of certain categories of works, where a lot of fraud has also been detected - this is also the experience of fiscal controls. The catalogue of Annexes 11 and 14 is extended precisely as a result of the experience of the State's tax services in relation to the observed transfer practices in the field of VAT fraud from the sectors covered by the reverse VAT mechanism. Another group of proposed amendments concerns taking into account the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union regarding VAT exemptions. According to that case law, the exemption from financial services cannot be granted separately to support services of a purely technical nature, such as administrative services. or call center. During the detailed work on the law in the finance committee, we declare a thorough examination of all the doubts regarding the application of the new rules to [[♪ The bell ♪]] small and medium-sized companies honestly fulfilling their obligations. I'm almost done, Marshal. In conclusion, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I support a government project aimed at sealing the VAT collection system, hoping that this will significantly reduce the budget deficit and consequently reduce the tax burden on citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u5	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u6	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform, to present a position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and certain other laws. The proposed law is very important due to the wide range of regulations, as well as the purpose of sealing the collection system for goods and services. The scale of the fraud and the size of the so-called fraud. The gaps in the value added tax are worrying enough to require further legislative intervention. However, when trying to combat fraud, to reduce the gap, a child cannot be poured out with a bath, it must not be forgotten that the tax on goods and services is a consumer tax that should remain neutral for entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs should not charge either the amount of tax itself or excessive compliance costs or risks. It is therefore necessary to modify a number of project solutions precisely in order to balance the interests of taxpayers and the state budget accordingly. I would like to say right away that a number of provisions deserve a positive assessment. I have no doubt about that. But Mrs Bubula spoke of them, releasing me from this obligation. So I'm going to talk about reservations. Serious objections are raised by the introduction of joint and several liability of the representative representing the taxable person in the course of the registration. After all, fraudsters will continue to obtain VAT registration using poles, but acting personally in the course of the registration. Taxpayers, including those who are honest, will practically be deprived of the possibility of professional legal assistance during registration. Agents, without being able to verify the potential client's intentions, will not take risks. The so-called VAT sanction or additional liability will be a solution that significantly increases the risk on the part of taxpayers, especially since it can lead to even a one- or several-day delay in the submission of a declaration and payment of a tax or an unconscious error in the settlement, which is not difficult at the same time to pay such a complex tax. Although the additional commitment will not be determined in the case of accounting errors, the errors resulting from e.g. from discrepancies in judicial or administrative case law. Such a measure of liability for undesired errors could be justified if we consider that the Court of Justice draws attention to the importance of good faith or due diligence in the common VAT system. The removal from the taxable person's register will also be a sanction for those who have been victims of fraud. Should a one-off involvement in a transaction, which has proved to be part of a fraud but committed by another entity, actually lead to the removal from the register of active VAT taxable persons of an entity which, moreover, conducts a fair business activity? This solution seems too far-reaching, especially if we consider the great indeterminateness of good faith or due diligence in making sure that we are not dealing with a fraud, and the indeterminateness of the notion of an unreliable counterparty in tax settlement. The removal from the register of taxable persons who have not carried out activities taxed for 6 months, and subsequently the restoration of those activities, when it turns out that the absence of taxable activities during a given period is due to the specific nature of the activity, may be a solution which causes excessive practical difficulties. It should also be specified that the deletion is subject to an entity whose proxy is not repeated at the request of the Authority so that a one-off event does not lead to deletion from the register. Both the additional obligation, the removal from the VAT register and the criminal sanctions will primarily affect the victims of frauds and not the organisers of fraudulent activities. For issuing an empty invoice and using it will be answered by the exhibitor and the recipient, but no longer by the entity who organized the fraudulent activity, hiding behind the pillar, directing fraudulent activities and profiting from it. Of course, increasing the responsibility of the pillars and counterparties is intended to discourage them from properly companying the activities of actual fraudsters and entering into commercial relations with suspicious counterparties, which may hinder the activities of fraudsters and reduce the scale of fraud. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, the responsibility of real fraudsters, organizers of fraudulent structures seems inadequately regulated. This is also not a good solution for the 23 percent rate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u7	You're gonna have to leave now, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u8	If it's gonna be so effective, then why is it gonna last so long? I have other comments, but the passing Time doesn't allow me to formulate them. So it was just a few comments. Detailed comments will be drawn up in the course of further work. However, it should be stressed that changes to the sealing system are needed on the one hand, and that, on the other hand, the moderation must be maintained. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u9	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u10	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Nothing to add, nothing to say about what my previous speaker said. However, I will start by saying that Mrs Bubula, in her argument supporting this project, has forgotten one of the most important arguments for starting this work. You only mentioned that this was a key issue for you, because it is, for the existence of this country, so that it was not just a theoretical state, but that it could exist. Without money, the state will fall apart and no party will have anything to own. On the other hand, the other leg - I do not know whether it is even more important, certainly equally important - is competition. [[Voice from the room: It was spoken.]] Yes? I didn't hear that. Excuse me. The issue of competition, free competition is crucial here. If we allow some actors to have a competitive advantage through fraud, unfortunately we also kill this very important value in this way. This case is undoubtedly cross-party. I am very pleased that, for the time being, and in the discussions we have taken, we are all agreed that our country is of sufficient value - and I think it is perhaps the greatest value - but to lean on this problem together to try to save this country and this competition. It is therefore very important that these work be undertaken. Here I must admit that this is due to the current authorities that they have decided to undertake this work. On the other hand, their merit is also that these works are not fully thought out. I mean, yes: in principle, we will support that. On the other hand, there are a huge number of problems here about the details. The Professor mentioned that a moment ago. In fact, we need to think about how to do this, how to cure cancer without killing a patient. Of course, killing a patient is a way of killing cancer. But we need to get rid of cancer without killing a patient. The risks of this killing are high. The liquidation of quarterly accounts itself - when we see how much more work it is for an average entrepreneur, we already see how we increase the burden for the entrepreneur. Electronic declaration - this will, of course, be a problem for a small entrepreneur. Bail, the entire bail system that we are introducing, is also a powerful problem for the entrepreneur, and at the same time very easy to circumvent by fraudsters. Therefore, we do not deal with the basic problem in this way. The extension of joint and several responsibility also often strikes honest people, but it is not a big problem for fraudsters. Personally, I am often a proxy in my professional activities and I know that, for example, I'm not gonna take this case, this power of attorney, because the rules that are planned here make me go to jail, to apologize, not the bandit who misled me. So that we just have to work really hard on all of this. I would like to point out that the reversal of VAT, so-called. reversed VAT is an effective solution, only this is always a step backwards solution, i.e. One step too late. We're always the first criminals to do this, and we're the only ones who have to chase after them. But here you have to think about the fact that all the other activities that make them unable to take any step are more important. The formal complications of entrepreneurs will be large and we need to work very hard on this, but we do not fire the child with a bath, which is to enable the entrepreneur to work, while the issue of the fiscal apparatus is important here. Only if we have an efficient tax system - well-trained, well-paid, motivated, which will look at the taxpayer not as an enemy and a fraud, but as a partner - we will be able to carry out many of these necessary reforms. The lack of a proper fiscal apparatus is simply one of our biggest problems and it is not the fault of the tax company's employees, it is the system that makes them unable to act as they would like, and there are also large shortcomings in training and in the remuneration of these people. It is not appropriate to extend the increased rate in these provisions either. But here we should come back, because the higher the stakes, the greater the temptation to act illegally to break the law, so let's think about whether or not it's time to come back. We must also bear in mind that the criminal arrangements that are proposed in these and other laws require a lot of thought. We are in favour of increasing penalties because I know from my own practice that it pays to get suspended sentences, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And in return, have 5 million zlotys in your pocket. Then, of course, it is right that we increase this, but we need to do it in moderation and in a way that works positively...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u11	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u12	...and it didn't just destroy this country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u13	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna try not to repeat everything that came out of my predecessors' mouth and focus on other spheres that aren't necessarily cool in this bill. It is certain that the government is still looking for money and is not only looking for it as a seal, but wants to just download it from entrepreneurs. The scandal is that the party that criticized PO-PSL in the previous term for increasing VAT today is doing exactly the same thing because that's the way it has to be said. Even though you promised to return to previous rates in the election campaign, today you are extending their duration for another two years. The crisis is over, the economy is well, and you do not want to give their money back to Poles because this tribute Poles pay for their daily shopping. It's high time you admitted that you couldn't seal the tax system on the scale you talked about in the election campaign. This is the main reason why you still have to go into higher VAT rates. But that's not the only problem I see in this bill. The Act introduces the additional penalties referred to here, amounting to 20% for incorrect settlements. Sometimes they can rightly be imposed on entrepreneurs, and sometimes it can result from a misinterpretation of the rules, and we know that the tax office and the tax control office can interpret the rules differently, so what surprises entrepreneurs that sometimes they can misinterpret something in our law. But even worse is the fact that today the government wants to improve its liquidity at the expense of the liquidity of entrepreneurs. According to this law, the office will be able to extend today the 60- and 25-day time limits for reimbursement of VAT up to 3 months. Ladies and gentlemen, VAT should be neutral for entrepreneurs, but it does not become more and more so. This will, of course, be possible at the request of the special services in connection with their conduct, but no longer adds that the trader to whom they will be returned, i.e. late VAT refund must act as a suspect. [[No, no, no.]] It would seem that this provision is not dangerous, because entrepreneurs for this delay, if ultimately they find that they have nothing on their conscience, will be entitled to interest, but you must remember that VAT reimbursement is not only a cost but, above all, a thing that can significantly influence the liquidity of entrepreneurs. You don't include it in this bill at all. The provision on an accelerated 25-day deadline is also being amended. According to the new rule, only companies that make payments for their goods and services through a bank account will be able to benefit from this form. The government recognises that such rules as they have been in force so far could have been used by tax fraudsters. Indeed, it may have been so, we cannot rule it out, but this principle also applies to companies that account for their counterparties on a compensatory basis, pay taxes, have nothing behind their ears and simply wanted to benefit from accelerated VAT because it is too important in their business. And its financing over the longer term is impossible, especially for example. with large, one-off contracts. Nor do you take into account that, in this case, we will have anything to do with an unjustified change in the rules that significantly affects the liquidity of businesses' activities. The frozen capital of enterprises is not only interest, it is also lost profits and sometimes the frequency of liquidity loss. The government, on the pretext of combating tax fraud, wants to finance its activities at the expense of taxpayers, because unreturned VAT simply remains at the disposal of the government. The project also introduces changes in the registration of entities and okay here, I have no comments, because it is aimed at eliminating the entry process of tax carousels, although in fact the joint and several liability of the proxy is too far-reaching a step. However, it is even more difficult to remove taxable persons from VAT. It is enough that the company buys or sells goods to a tax fraud and may lose the status of a VAT payer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a form of extending the joint and several liability of taxpayers, the victims of which have already been victims of many legally and conscientious entrepreneurs. It is not taken into account at all that what seems obvious to an official does not have to be obvious to the entrepreneur. The removal of the grey zone cannot, ladies and gentlemen, rely...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u15	I would very much like to finish my speech, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u16	...only on punishing entrepreneurs, repression, the introduction of confusing settlement rules. It's a bonus that entities should get for participating in the process of closing the grey zone, and this bonus is now completely gone in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u17	Thank you very much, Member. Time was running out, so Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the project from print No. 965. The main and fundamental change resulting from the proposed project is the increase of VAT to 8% and 23% By 31 December 2018, i.e. for the next two years. The government is not even trying to justify this increase in taxation, it considers it obvious, because these rates have so far been in force in times of recovery from the economic crisis, the global economic crisis. Nevertheless, the crisis did not prevent the previous governments from lowering to 5%. a tax on food products, which are, after all, a significant item in the household budgets of families with lower incomes. Thus, this project is another taxing project on citizens. And how much different this is from the guarantees offered by the PiS during the election period. At this point I will also repeat the question asked repeatedly by the PiS and I look forward to the answer, which is obvious. What about VAT on baby clothes? You've been asking that question notoriously. Why don't you even lower your VAT in this case? Today's government project also contains a number of additional solutions to improve tax collection, even called a package of sealing solutions. These include the reverse load mechanism. The reverse VAT principle will cover transactions relating to e.g. specific construction services, the sale of processors with a value exceeding 20 000. zł, some goods of gold, silver and platinum. In addition, the project amends the rules on the settlement of VAT within a 25-day period, limits the possibility of quarterly settlements, introduces an obligation to submit electronic VAT returns, introduces an obligation to submit electronic summary information only for monthly periods, introduces joint and several liability for carrying out certain transactions, including in the case of a representative starting business, and introduces tax sanctions for incorrect settlement of tax. The Package of Solutions also amends the Tax Code and Tax Order Act. The project was subject to a very short 10-day consultation, from September 23rd to October 3rd. Many questions have been raised by business organisations, as well as negative assessments highlighting the absoluteness of some solutions, the increase in bureaucracy, labour expenditure and, of course, the increase in the cost of adapting companies to new procedural requirements. As usual, the rush of the current government projects does not allow the proposed proposals to be properly dealt with. In fact, this has already become a standard in the process and adoption of the law during the current term of office. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have a negative assessment of the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u19	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. As the projectors point out, VAT is one of the most important sources of revenue due to its profitability for the state budget. If we want to act productively for society in both social and economic policy, it is necessary to introduce new regulations to improve the collection of this tax. In this draft law, applicants propose to introduce a number of solutions referred to as a package of sealing solutions. One of them is to extend the catalogue of goods and services covered by the reverse charge mechanism, mainly those particularly vulnerable to abuse in this area. In assessing this solution, it is important that the reverse charge mechanism is a used and effective instrument for combating tax fraud throughout the European Union. In addition, it is envisaged to introduce the possibility of verifying the registration of new VAT taxable persons. Depending on the results of this verification, where it appears that the entity in question does not exist or is not in contact with it, the head of the tax office will be able to refuse to register it. If a newly registered entity is recognised on the basis of established links with already registered entities who are in arrears with taxes that there is a risk that the entity concerned will also be in default of paying tax duties, it will be possible to make the registration of that entity subject to its registration deposit. Further solutions to improve the efficiency of VAT collection include: Restoration of VAT sanctions in the event that the taxable person is found not to be reliable in a complex tax return where he has shown the amount of the tax liability lower than the amount due, restricting the application of the refund of the tax difference in an accelerated 25-day period only to specific cases and extending the joint and several liability to the agent of the entity starting the business in the event of the tax arrears of that entity arising from its participation in unfair tax settlement with a view to the return of the property benefit. The regulations introduced by this Act have the opportunity to effectively counter the fraud of unfair taxpayers and thus only to increase the gap in the state budget resulting from these frauds. When assessing this project, it can be said that it is above all happy that instead of focusing on inventing new burdens for Polish taxpayers, applicants focus on sealing the system that is already in force. However, there is no disillusionment due to the continued functioning of VAT rates, which were only increased by the previous government for a period of 3 years and have been in operation for almost 6 years. However, I hope that the solutions introduced by this law will result in the desired results and that the additional budget revenue resulting from the improvement of VAT collection will allow for a reduction in its rates. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the proposed project and requests that it be submitted to the committee for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u21	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Janusz Sanocki, non-member, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High - not too full - Izbo! We live in times where a whole range of solutions, which later turn out to be destructive, harmful, and which produce various pathologies, have always been introduced with some noble purpose. Undoubtedly, the noble intention is to seal the system, to avoid tax fraud, which is appropriate for VAT, but it must be said that in official practice it will look quite different from that imagined by legislators, designers and those who claim that this sealing system will touch not only fraudsters, it will touch everyone, it will equalize the entire field. I know it from practice. Taxpayers come to me complaining that the clerk qualified a broker transaction where you buy the goods in one place and sell it to someone else, and it doesn't even go to the warehouse as a VAT carousel. Such situations, ladies and gentlemen, there will be plenty. That is why I believe that such laws should be written with the participation of representatives of entrepreneurs, as assessed by business organisations and created with greater consideration, because in my opinion there are a whole range of solutions that are extremely dangerous to the ordinary bread eater and which can simply have destructive effects on the economy. Consider the very principle of joint and several responsibility that a colleague of Jachnik is about to say because he is preparing for it. According to this principle, if an honest entrepreneur, without even knowing it, because sometimes he is unable to check it in the KRS, where the company is registered, made a transaction, and it turned out that he received an invoice from a fraudster, he also bears the consequences. Well, that can't be right, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, I believe that under the appearance of very noble, wise sounding goals and assurances comes a system that will be destructive. I believe that it is important to think more carefully about this law, to invite entrepreneurs, their representatives, people who do business on a daily basis. Unfortunately, we're hitting this economy. Here we have great plans, sustainable development or something, and we smash the economy with so much red tape, recipes and regulations that no system can bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u23	Thank you very much. Seven Members joined the questions. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, will ask you as the first question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u24	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Why the State, although you promised to reduce VAT to 22% and 7% You continue to do so, but not only for 2017, but also for 2018? That's the first question. How did you consult the social side? What were the comments on the matter? The second point is reversed VAT and liability. With regard to what you are proposing as a model of this reverse VAT from scrap metal, as well as other goods, I would like to ask: What is the test of the gold that you were talking about? Because in practice, the lowest sample is 333, and you're judging this sample at a much lower level, and that's basically what you're looking at. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is no market. And why didn't you try to pay those taxpayers who you're extending their payback time to 25 or 60 days, interest...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u25	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u26	...and there is only a carry-over fee that is much lower and causes damage to entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u27	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u28	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We all know that the subject of crime, tax fraud, is actually VAT. The goods are actually a carrier of this VAT and criminals are pretty good at moving from one goods to another. To some extent It's like chasing a bunny if we're talking about solutions like this. reverse charge or joint responsibility. You have said a lot in your time about system solutions, such as the electronic invoice register. The work on this register was started by the previous government, and you transferred this work to the company. Question: "When will this register finally be?" That's one thing. And the second question, from such systemic solutions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which we have introduced in the previous parliament, this is a uniform control file. This is a tool that should be very useful when it comes to fighting criminals. Question: Are there tools and what are the results of using this single control file? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u29	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This project aims to seal the tax system and increase VAT collection by PLN 3.4 billion next year. In this sense, of course, it is an absolutely strategic project for public finances, for the budget, although it is, of course, very, very severe for honest entrepreneurs. However, there is a unique opportunity to determine to what extent the control activities of NIK helped to develop this project. This is important in the context of the recent discussion on the effectiveness of this institution. As a member of the Committee on State Control, I kindly ask you to answer in writing the following question: What solutions set out in the draft have been adopted under the influence of the results of the audit. Against the placing on the market of invoices documenting fictitious activities? This NIK control report was released in March this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u31	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u32	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the proposed solutions, the change in the procedure for verifying the validity of returns is concerned. Currently, this verification takes place in the modes set out in the Tax Order: verification activities, tax checks, tax proceedings, and the revision of the verification procedure requires a further provision to extend the repayment period, which allows for periodic verification of the appropriateness of the administration's activities. Taking into account the verification of the entire trading chain of a given commodity or service, and not only of the taxpayer's direct counterparties, suppliers and buyers, will make the waiting time for return completely unpredictable and the taxpayer will bear the negative consequences of the activities of the entities whose existence or involvement in transactions [[♪ The bell ♪]] He couldn't have known at all. Against this background I have a question: Do designers imagine improving the taxpayer's situation in this regard, in this procedure? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u33	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Barbara Bubula, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I would like to ask a question about forcing the use of an electronic version of VAT statements for a group of companies from 1 January next year and for another - from 1 January 2018. Did the government examine before proposing this solution a map of white spots when it comes to accessing Internet communications in Poland? On this occasion, I wanted to inform the Minister and the High House that I had recently learned that only 40 km from Krakow in the municipality of Słaboszów at an hour. 2 at night you can open the easiest website because the signal is so weak, there is no cable connection, and mobile connectivity is so weak that you can't almost use this Internet. Will it not result in the fact that, in particular, small businesses using the VAT system will be forced to move [[♪ The bell ♪]] the headquarters of its companies from many localities where access to wired or wireless communication networks is so weak? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u35	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have one question because it bothers me the most about the so-called. joint and several liability for VAT obligations. Well, it turns out that the pole will still earn 50%. , because the other 50% The person who paid the tax will pay. So I'm asking the government if he's aware that this is how he's breaking the article. 42 of the Constitution, because only those who commit crimes are liable for criminal liability. I have another question. Do you believe that the register will enter, this main VAT register of VAT invoices, and when possibly? For today, it is important to be clear: if large sanctions are imposed, why is it that the National Court of Justice does not act in cooperation with the tax authorities as regards unfair VAT taxpayers? Ladies and gentlemen, the trader has no real opportunity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Checking, yet with the protection of personal data, the integrity of your supplier, and introducing draconian punishments. That has to be taken into account. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u37	Thank you very much, sir. As the last question asked by Mrs Genowef Tokarska, the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have already said in my speech that the rulers again did not give a chance to consult properly with those involved in this project, i.e. entrepreneurs. Although they have made numerous comments, reservations, proposals, but, in fact, in time, the government did not have time to examine the proposed proposals properly. Within the framework of this correspondence to the government, several dozen parties responded to the project from associations and business groups. My question may be rhetorical, although I would like and would like to see a change in relation to these issues, a change of conduct. Is the government aware that such a reckless process of further projects misses the goal of sealing tax collection and introduces anxiety, chaos and simply destroys businessmen and not fraudsters? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Entrepreneurship, that's it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u39	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Leszek Skiba will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer your questions, for which I thank you very much. The first question was the question of public consultation. You asked Skowronska. And indeed these consultations took place. The consultation report is on the RCL website and, in fact, all the comments made by Mrs Tokarska have been taken into account. The report contains a response from the Ministry of Finance to these comments. We understand that this law really generates a lot of discussion, doubts. During the consultation we received a lot of comments. This allowed all of them to be taken into account carefully, although it was as if they were not all taken into account in the process of working on this project. Mrs Skowrońska asked about the calculation of the gold test. The industry, which trades gold, drew attention to the problem of using gold scrap for VAT carousels. It is so that really supplementing the range of goods with other goods subject to a reverse charge, it is not that, so to speak, the invention of the Ministry of Finance is always verified from the point of view of tax control, but above all it is due to the industry's intention, so that in fact these industries have pointed out that there is a problem of equal competition. These are also processors, and just hard drives, and stretch film, and construction services, and concrete entrepreneurs. During the consultation he appeared e.g. Platinum problem. In fact, supplementing the list of goods subject to a reverse charge is the result it is that entrepreneurs want fair, equal competition, and this is the result of the solution, these issues related to the expansion of the range of goods, gold. Mr Silchoń asked when the central invoice register would be. It is already built in the test version, actually in such a sense as an IT solution, which is in the version, one can say, to see how it can work. Of course, it is crucial to check whether all the comments of people who are competent know how the invoice register should work in practice, i.e. on the one hand tax officials, tax authorities, actually acquire all the information that is essential, but only those that are necessary from the point of view of entrepreneurs. We are now carrying out verifications as to whether this solution is appropriate, but on the other hand implementation will be crucial. We plan that in the second half of the year this central invoice register... [[Next year, right?]] ...should already be tested on such a large scale on the basis of its wide capacity to a serious extent. As far as the uniform control file is concerned, yes, we already have the first files, from 6,000. entities entered at the end of August. The Ministry of Finance has a timetable which has been amended by the fact that entities, an increasingly large group of entities, will pass on a single control file. We are working on closing the so-called. An analyzer, that is, an IT instrument that will speed up radically the analysis of these data so as to solve the problem that Mr Nykiel was talking about, namely the problem of verification at the time of returning a whole range of links between actors. Well, the idea is that this verification should be and will be quick. She's gonna be based on JPK data right now, on JPK connections. And in this sense, the Minister of Finance's intention is not to extend the term of return to infinity, but just so that the return is verified as soon as possible on the basis of a single control file so that there is no such problem that it takes a long time. As for Mrs Bubble's question, I understand that the problem with Internet access in a village that is 40 km from Krakow is acute from the point of view of everyday life. As I understand it, the problem concerns electronic declarations, VAT returns. However, it appears that it is possible to submit a VAT return by electronic means once a month, e.g. you can come to the village, which is a few kilometres away. Electronic declarations really accelerate the work of the tax administration, improve the effectiveness of analyses. Therefore, there is a huge difference in the work of the administration, which is equipped with a VAT return and analyzes it in paper and electronic versions. The electronic VAT declarations are necessary in order to be able to verify, verify and properly type the entities for the checks so that these honest taxpayers are not burdened with excessive repression by the tax authorities. There is also the question of joint and several liability by Mr Jachnik. The very principle, the operation of joint and several liability, is not that each taxpayer is liable for the obligations of the other taxpayer without any conditions. The principle of joint and several liability is based on the assumption that this taxable person had to know about some illegal behaviour of the other taxable person who did not pay VAT. Therefore, it is not so. We can see how joint responsibility exists so far, for example in the fuel industry. We're not dealing with situations like this that completely ignorant, dishonest... In fact, these cases are certainly few when honest taxpayers are responsible for the tax obligations of someone, this fraud. This is entirely due to the accident, the unawareness. The solid responsibility is based on the belief that, in fact, the one who has to pay VAT for this dishonest taxpayer simply had to know about certain irregularities in the functioning of the other entity. And one last thing, that's the taxpayers' register. The VAT Register is available online on the website of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm should refer the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and certain other laws, contained in print No 965, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u42	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 9, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 9, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 9.15, - Health-- hour. 10, - Public Finance - immediately after the end of the votes, approx. hour. 13.30, - The Territorial Government and Regional Policy together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - immediately after the end of the votes, ca. 13.30, - Health - immediately after the end of the votes, about an hour. 13.30, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 15. I would also like to inform you that the Parliamentary Group will be held today. regulation of the pharmaceutical market - h. 3:30.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u43	Thank you very much, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act (Print No 969). I ask Mr Sylvester Tulayev to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the group of Members, I have the honour to present a draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. The project is essentially about two changes, two key issues. The first is to guarantee the right to take account of the tax-free amount in 2016 and 2017. The second change is a change in the tax rules for investment funds. Let us recall that the Constitutional Tribunal, in its judgment of 28 October, 3 days after the Law and Justice of Parliament's elections, ruled on the Article. 27. He said it was Art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Act of 26 July 1991 on personal income tax in so far as it does not provide for a mechanism to correct the tax reduction amount, which guarantees at least minimum existence, is incompatible with Article. Article 2 and Article 2 84 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The provision referred to in Part I shall, to the extent indicated therein, expire on 30 November 2016. The Constitutional Tribunal shall have the same effect. From the judgment, it follows from this operative part that the Court has actually ruled that there is no legislation. At the same time, the Constitutional Tribunal postponed the loss in force until 30 November 2016. Therefore, the operative part of the judgment may raise doubts. on the effects it will have on the expiry of the deadline. The views are different. The first is that the judgments on non-constitutionality of the legislative omission concern, in fact, the non-constitutionality of the whole provision, in this case the entire Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 act. On the other hand, when we take into account that the statement of non-constitutionality referred in fact to the part of the provision in so far as it regulates the tax amount available to taxpayers, it cannot be excluded that the loss of force in force will apply only to the tax-free amount and, consequently, taxable persons will be deprived of the right to deduct tax by the amount guaranteed by the current legislation. Therefore, in order to ensure the constitutional principle of legal certainty for taxable persons and, in particular, to guarantee the right to take account of the amount of tax free at the current rate, there is an urgent need for a legislative initiative laying down the rules for calculating income tax in 2016. In addition, given the increase in the amount of free money announced by the Prime Minister in the exposé... [[Voice from the room: In the first 100 days.]] ...up to 8,000. and ongoing work on the reform of the tax system in the field of uniform tax, which is planned to implement this announcement and which is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2018, it is appropriate to maintain the existing tax rules also in 2017. This work is under the direction of Minister Kowalczyk and, as I said, the entry into force of this announcement is planned for 1 January 2018. The second point raised in the proposed bill is that the tax rules of investment funds should be amended. This is a change in the Corporate Income Tax Act. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 We propose to amend the rules on taxation of investment funds by covering Polish investment funds operating under the Act of 27 May 2004 on investment funds, i.e. open investment funds and specialised open investment funds, an exemption in place of an entity exemption, including interest income, dividends and other income from participation in corporate profits, disposal of claims, currencies, shares and other securities, including derivatives of financial instruments or the exercise of rights arising therefrom. This amendment will also consist of an equivalent exemption for foreign mutual investment institutions from the Member States of the European Union or the European Economic Area which fulfil the characteristics which enable them to be considered equivalent to open-ended investment funds and specialised open-ended investment funds. The inclusion of closed investment funds in the Income Tax Act is another change in the taxation of investment funds. These changes, the three key ones I mentioned, will therefore not affect the scope of taxation of national open investment funds and specialised open and equivalent foreign investment funds reaching the indicated revenue, as I mentioned earlier, despite the change in the exemption formula. I would like to point out that unlike open investment funds, closed investment funds offer the possibility of redirecting the issue of certificates to a particular investor, matching the investment strategy to individual needs. The control of the investment objective of the fund and the determination of investment policy and the lack of investment restrictions allow primarily investments in foreign companies with characteristics identical to the Polish form of the limited partnership. The characteristics of closed-ended investment funds make these funds used to manage assets, in particular by taxpayers with significant capital to exploit economies of scale. The use of closed investment funds for tax optimization will be applicable if the total costs of maintaining the fund do not exceed the amount of tax that the investor would have to pay by investing outside the structure of closed investment funds. Therefore, only entities investing in amounts of several tens of millions of PLN can afford to create such a private investment vehicle. This results in the advantage of large taxpayers vis-à-vis small and medium-sized enterprises. This situation has a very negative impact on the competitiveness of smaller operators, weakening their market position. Assuming that the financial result of the closed investment funds would be similar to the corporate income tax base, the change in the rules on taxation of investment funds could result in an increase in the revenue of the public finance sector by around PLN 2.2.5 billion for taxation of the income of closed investment funds. However, the amendment would be neutral for other types of investment funds to the extent that they would continue to generate income covered by the proposed exemption. I would like to announce now that a certain amendment to the draft law is being considered, because, as I mentioned, the act aims to amend and extend the provisions of the Income Tax Act to all closed investment funds. But we're paying attention. for those companies which apply the principle I mentioned earlier concerning those negative activities related to the use of closed investment funds in order to optimize taxation. This will certainly still be analysed during the work of the Committee on Public Finances. [[Voice from the room: What is this?]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act will enter into force on 30 November 2016. Until that day, as I mentioned at the very beginning, the Constitutional Tribunal postponed the loss of power of the Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Personal Income Tax Act, with the exception of the amendments introduced in the Corporate Income Tax Act for which we propose that they enter into force on 1 January 2017. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Group of Members, I recommend that this bill be adopted. I would also ask that this bill be further examined in the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u45	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sylvester Tulaev will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please, once again, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u46	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the parliamentary draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. I would not like to repeat these arguments which I have quoted as an applicant, but I would just like to draw attention to two fundamental points that we note in this draft law, namely the question of guaranteeing the right to take account of the tax-free amount in 2016 and 2017. We don't want any doubts. on the functioning, on the operation, on the existence of a tax-free amount just in 2016 and 2017. As Law and Justice, we promised that we would introduce social programs which would be designed to restore dignity to Poles. Yes, it is. We are introducing a number of changes, starting with the 500+ programme, through a minimum wage of 2 000. PLN, through a minimum pension of 1 000. zł, free medicines for seniors, living+. That's what we do. We know that not everything can be introduced immediately, because these issues were very late. With regard to the tax-free amount, today the most shouting is those who have done nothing or done very little in recent years. So let us remind you that during the time of the PO-PSL governments, the tax-free amount increased by just PLN 2. Two zlotys. Today, as I mentioned, the most shouting is those who have done nothing or done very little in recent years. The Law and Justice promise to raise the tax-free amount is still valid. We're gonna do this, just like all the other programs we've had in the last 11 months. But it takes time for everything. I would like to remind you once again that work is underway on the reform of the tax system in the field of a uniform tax, in which the Prime Minister's announcements are planned to be implemented, the Law and Justice announcements on raising the tax-free amount. This single tribute would have entered into force on 1 January 2018. Once again, we have implemented a lot of social programmes over these 11 months, and we will also have one that concerns the tax-free amount, but unfortunately we realise that not everything can be introduced immediately. We have a clear work plan, a four-year plan for our governments. We will also fulfill that promise. The second point raised in the Act is the revision of the rules on taxation of investment funds. As I mentioned, in the course of the work of the Committee on Public Finance, we will consider the possibility of distinguishing investment funds that are closed so as to actually draw attention to this and see which companies use investment funds that are closed for tax optimization and which are investing in capital markets. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the bill submitted and requests that this draft be further examined in the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u47	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I understand that a Member acting on behalf of the PiS Club has not used the time of his club... [[50 seconds.]] ...because it's hard to say that you're not going to deliver on your election promise. Mr President, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to state that this is a sad day for those who have believed your promise to raise the amount of free money. The applicant has just buried the hopes of those who were hoping for this free higher amount. Today is also a sad day for those who thought that you did not respect only those judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal that you did not print. Turns out you don't respect the ones that have been printed either. After all, he said in a rather perverse way that the Constitutional Tribunal considered that the tax-free amount could not be less than the minimum necessary for existence. This judgment of the tribunal comes into force in a dozen days. And what does PiS do? In this bill, you say exactly, "We don't care about the Constitutional Tribunal, [[Applause]] We will not give money to those whom we should help in accordance with the Constitution. For the second time this year, you have confirmed that you have deceived Poles because for the second time you reject raising the amount of free money - the first time in February when the Civic Platform submitted the bill. Unfortunately, this is not the end of bad news for Polish taxpayers, because in an act of desperation, looking for money, you tax another part of the economy. With the trade tax didn't work out, you're now reaching into the capital market, you want to tax investment funds closed. This is over PLN 100 billion, which you want to tax - without reflection, without consultation, in a hurry, only with the imperative that the bill must enter into force by the end of November, because the PiS government must reach into the pockets of other taxpayers. This is not how the tax system is sealed, so you can only stop economic development, and you have done so effectively since the beginning of this year. We would like to ask: Where is the Minister of Finance in the PiS government? Where's the Minister of Development? Why are the new taxes introduced by Members? Why are you finally mocking Prime Minister Morawiecki, who is responsible for the economy in your government? [[Applause]] Once again this action is completely scattered with the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki. After all, these are his words, listen: The strategy for responsible development provides for the development of the financial market, which is to become a real vehicle for the transformation of capital into development. This bill is an example of the fact that you do not understand the capital market at all. You write that you want to reduce tax avoidance by people for whom investment funds are created closed non-public assets, so-called. FIZAN, but at the same time in this act the projectors confused FIZAN and FIZ, you confused investment funds closed to non-public assets with closed investment funds. Nor can it be said that FIZAN and FIZ are just tax frauds. I do not know whether you are aware that, in the form of closed-ended funds, there are venture capital funds that Prime Minister Morawiecki is so asking for, real estate funds that are so important to Prime Minister Morawiecki, and securitisation funds that civilise the debt trading market. Moreover, the funds of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego are organised in the form of such funds. Such a fund was our Housing Fund for Rent, which you destroy, but is also such a fund for your Housing+ Fund. I mean, you wanted to tax your own social program? Is that really what this is about? You don't understand that the fund isn't some alien, bloodthirsty capitalist, it's just the funds of a lot of investors. But if your intentions are sincere, if you really want to limit abuse, and not just rip off one-off closed funds... I say: once, because if the law in this form comes into force, in a year in Poland there will be no closed funds at all, and if there are no funds, then there will also be no tax [[♪ The bell ♪]] from these funds. Your Marshal, 50 seconds of Mr Tulayev, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u49	No, no... But please hurry up, Member, not 50 seconds faster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u50	If you really want to limit the abuse, then you need that ax you're holding in your hand today, and you're running into the capital market, and you're turning it into scissors. This will be better for the economy and better for the budget. And certainly in such rational actions sealing the system, the Civic Platform Club will support the Government of Law and Justice. But we certainly will not support you in the implementation of this law, i.e. Print Act No. 969. That's why I'm filing a motion to reject this terrible, bad project at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u51	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a quote for you: The government and the Ministry of Finance should be ashamed that they were blocking this change. According to our calculations, it is possible to increase both the tax-free amount and the program of 500 PLN per child. That's not out of the question. Where is the author of these words? Why isn't he in the O.R.? I would like to point out that these words were made by Minister Henryk Kowalczyk in 2015 following the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal on the tax-free amount. Do Law and Justice representatives agree with these words? If so, where is the shame? 'Cause I can't see that shame on your faces. Is the Minister ashamed? Is the applicant ashamed? You should be ashamed of that. I agree with Minister Kowalczyk that it is shameful to continue freezing the tax-free amount. The tax-free amount increased by PLN 2 since 2008, i.e. 25 gr per year. I have a question in which year we will catch up with African countries, such as Zimbabwe, which has a tax-free amount of 12,000. zł, Zambia, which has more than 12,000, or even Senegal, which has 4,000. zł if at this rate we raise the tax-free amount. I'm afraid we'll never catch up with these countries on such an important matter. I'm just going to quote Milton Friedman's Nobel Prize winner, who said inflation is the form of tax that can be imposed without a bill. Freezing tax thresholds, and in particular the tax-free amount, is also the form of tax that you impose without law. In this case, there is a law, but only because you want to circumvent the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Blaze Parda, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice gives us the right to provide a free amount of PLN 3091. Thank you, we are aware that you have been able to reduce this amount. Now we're aware, because before that, I'll tell you honestly, it never occurred to me that someone might have had such an idea, and I think most Poles didn't think about it at all. It is a disgrace to keep this level as it is today. Everyone was hoping to raise that level. Maybe in a moment you'll tell me you're giving us the right to provide 60% tax, because it could always be 80%. ? Or maybe you can establish a secular tradition together with the Civic Platform and make a sacred amount of PLN 3051 unless the Civic Platform already claims copyright to this great idea of theirs. In addition, we will support the proposal to reject this project and in the work of the committee we will make an amendment increasing this tax-free amount to PLN 6500, i.e. to the amount defined as the minimum of existence. I think you know that very well, you know that, and you deliberately make such a bad bill, but it's a matter of your consciences, that's your business. In fact, this law reduces the tax-free amount. You planned an inflation of about 1.5% next year. Which means today's 3,000. Next year it will be even less worth it, which is really a reduction in the tax-free amount. Today we already have a lot of increases, such as OC, AC, in a moment of excise duty will go up, probably in a moment still other public tributes, taxes and services, which also makes the tax-free amount gets really smaller and smaller, translating it into reality. There's a concept, maybe a little bit in the advertising industry, a little bit of hunger, here we're seeing a hunger and desire from you, or maybe just a lack of willingness to fulfill your promises and give the people what you're talking about. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u55	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u56	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Posel Club regarding print No. 969. I would like to address the government and the Members of the applicants, of course, who are not here, to say simply that you were too late to go on this bill of extremely important, expected by Poles, to improve the living conditions of the poorest Polish families. After all, we have all been aware of the need to amend the PIT Act since 29 October 2015, when the Constitutional Tribunal, hated by the PiS, ruled that the current Act is incompatible with the Constitution in so far as it does not provide for a mechanism to correct the tax reduction guaranteeing at least minimum existence. There were at least a few draft laws on personal income tax. The modern has reported its own, thoughtful and comprehensive project, flexibly responding to the need to increase the amount of free money. And what do you do? You are introducing a law that maintains a abnormally low amount of free money that has been in force over the last years and in no way does you take into account the mechanism for correcting that amount. You promised the Poles something else. Do you still remember your promises? What about the words of the famous exposé by the Prime Minister claiming that the amount free would be 8,000. Evil? You can call those promises by name today. It's just a fake. The increase in the amount reducing the income tax on individuals is the responsibility of the Sejm, not the grace on which, as it turns out, taxpayers cannot count on. At the same time, in the same printing you deal with changes in corporate taxation, namely investment funds. Why are you doing this in one print? [[Exactly.]] In my opinion, under the coat of absence of any change in the tax-free amount, the law, which the PiS government intends to impose on investors, is not noticeably another extremely adverse to the economy. After the early dismantle of OFE this time, investment funds were targeted at the fiscals. According to the justification of the project, PiS does not like the fact that the income of investment funds was only taxed at the payout stage. It is worth noting that this is the characteristic determining the attractiveness of the investment fund. The fact that investments drive the economy is obvious to many other countries, such as Germany, France or the United Kingdom, whose legislation provides for an income tax exemption for investment funds. It should be stressed that the introduction of this change will impact not only on large investors who, in your opinion, apparently maliciously decided to make investments in Poland, but also on thousands of people who have invested their savings in participating in closed investment funds, to which Mr Morawiecki himself encouraged with passion as part of his business on the board of one of the banks. Finally, it is not fair to introduce as a draft parliamentary law which, two months before the start of the new tax year, completely changes the tax rules in a sector that is so important to the economy. Such projects should be analysed and evaluated in good time. Can you just admit that the changes that have been made lead to the bill hitting the pockets, e.g. Retirement savers under the FIZ? They will receive from the State, from the PiS State as a gift not only a starving tax deduction rate, but also a double taxation of their invested savings. To sum up, what we see here is called sealing the tax system with a kite, and it's at the expense of ordinary citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u57	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed solution to include income tax on all Polish closed investment funds will lead to a collapse in several important segments of the financial market, resulting in losses of many millions of people saving in open investment funds, about 2 million investors, as well as in open pension funds, 16,5 million active members. In closed investment funds making active investments in the Polish stock market, debt instruments, receivables or real estate, there are located about PLN 20 billion. The investment certificates of these funds have been offered over the past years to tens of thousands of individual investors in the offers of banks and other financial intermediaries. The inclusion of investors of these funds in double taxation of income, as well as the prospect that funds will create provisions for deferred income tax on unrealised profits resulting in a significant fall in the value of investment certificates already at the turn of 2016 and 2017 will result in an unprecedented outflow of capital, in particular from the rapidly growing in recent years due to the inflow from the market funds of small and medium-sized companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange or from the bond market of Polish companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is worth noting that closed investment funds, which specialized in investing in corporate bonds, placed at least PLN 3 billion in them. They give Polish entrepreneurs the opportunity to raise funds for the development of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u59	Go ahead and finish it, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u60	...which would not be available in the form of bank credit. We apply to reject this law at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u61	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am honoured to present my position on print No. 969. Today's bill sanctiones the tax scale in personal income tax for 2016 and 2017. Neither the Government nor the ruling party has so far complied with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 October 2015, which indicates that the provisions on personal income tax are incompatible with Article. 2 and 84 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The disagreement referred to by the Court concerns the absence of a mechanism to correct the amount reducing the tax guaranteeing at least the minimum existence. Thus, despite the promises made by the President, as well as the promises made by the Prime Minister to increase the tax-free amount of Poles living on income below the minimum of existence pay taxes. This is both a clear lack of concern in the execution of the judgments of the Tribunal and an expression of a disrespectful attitude towards the poorest. Unfortunately, so far, the parliamentary projects under consideration in the High House have not received the support of the parliamentary majority, and the presidential project has not provided for compensation for revenue for local government units. The Club of the Polish People's Party submitted a project and makes another attempt to increase the tax-free amount, as well as to take account of compensation for lost revenue for local governments. We hope that the problem has ripened for proper consideration, and this time we will settle this matter - not only an appalling but embarrassing matter, as my predecessors have already said, to burden those who have no income on ordinary existence. The draft law also introduces changes in corporate income tax. Changes in the tax rules of investment funds consist in the inclusion of Polish investment funds open to exemption, which are subject to the exemption of foreign investment institutions of the European Union or of the European Economic Area, which unfortunately include the provisions of the Income Tax Act of the closed investment funds. Especially this latter solution raises a great deal of controversy and simply raises opposition. Economists even warn that the change in taxation of closed investment funds will have a very negative impact on our capital market, and will even waver the Polish capital market. This project is another already imposing burden, mainly on entrepreneurs, without any consultation with this environment. And it's no longer a fight against frauds. This is no longer any sealing action. I regret to say that this is an ordinary cornering of entrepreneurship and that this road leads our country nowhere. A justification by the applicants for this draft by doubting whether the Constitutional Tribunal is legally raising decision-making is simply embarrassing and unacceptable. The project, which does not take into account the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, leads to a disruption of our Polish capital market, does not deserve support. We will vote against it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u63	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Ireneusz Gaina, near Free and Solidarnia, will be the last to speak in this part. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft amendment to the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, print No. 969. In her exposé, Prime Minister Beata Szydło announced an increase in the tax-free amount, so-called. minimum existence, up to 8,000. zł. [[In 100 days.]] This is a very important promise that the least earners and Poles who live on the border of poverty are waiting for. Let us remind you that at the end of November last year the law firm of the President of the Republic of Poland sent a project to the Sejm, which increases the amount of tax free to 8 thousand. PLN per year. In the presidential project, the annual tax reduction amount would be PLN 1440 compared to the current one - PLN 556.02. In the justification for the project, we can read that the solution leading to the improvement of the economic situation of taxpayers, in particular taxpayers with the lowest income, is to increase the amount deducted from the tax due. The increase in this amount will result in an increase in disposable income after tax of the majority of taxpayers, and the main beneficiaries of this change will be those with the lowest income from work and the vast majority of pensioners. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully shares the argument from the presidential project. On the other hand, we are aware of the budgetary implications of raising the tax-free amount, which is estimated at PLN 15 billion. The government must therefore find, first of all, a source of funding. Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki pointed out the potential opportunities for reducing expenditure on public administration, but it seems that there will be no radical change in the financing of many departments based on the state budget. We understand that 2017 will be devoted to the debate on public expenditure, because further increasing the country's debt is a very risky way for the Polish state. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Solidarity is not the luxury that the rich can afford, it is above all the philosophy of power. Without solidarity, the totalitarian communist system would not be broken. Without solidarity, it will be difficult to build a Polish national community. We appreciate the 500+ program, which has restored dignity to many families. Now it is time to introduce a higher amount of free as soon as possible to meet the burning needs of the poorest part of our society. This will, above all, allow many older Poles to achieve a minimum of existence, which is a fundamental principle of social justice. The Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle believe that the Act should be amended as a matter of urgency in the part concerning the amount free of tax, so that it takes into account the valorisation of the value of that amount in accordance with the law guaranteed by the Constitution. With regard to the part of the draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, we express a far-reaching scepticism regarding the change in the tax rules of investment funds. The positive economic, financial and legal effects are questionable in the light of comments submitted by the Board of Directors of the Funds and Assets representing the environment of investment funds in Poland. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle are in favour of referring this draft law to further work in the Parliamentary Committee in order to complement it and make the necessary changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u65	Thank you very much, sir. Eight people signed up for the questions. If any of you want to sign up, do it. I'm closing the list. I'm going to take very good care of time discipline right now, because we need to finish this point pretty quickly to fit in in time. The first question will be asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform. One minute to ask a question. I'm asking you to be disciplined.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u66	Questions for the Minister. Why did you introduce this project by way of a message? What's the opinion on this? How many billion zlotys can you get out of the pocket of Poles? Do you not respect the state of the presidential project when it proposes a free amount of 8,000. Evil? Do you realize, the state of the applicant, that you are breaking the Constitutional Court's findings? Once again in this part: Why do you slice - first promise and then slice - all your promises? There's no... Citizens should know that 8, 10 or 12 billion zlotys will pull PiS out of their pockets without fulfilling their promise to the presidential project. Why do you want to combine interest rates, i.e. impose [[♪ The bell ♪]] an additional tax such as the one submitted? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u67	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club. There isn't. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern. There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister in her exposé talked about signing a contract with voters, a contract with Poles for four years of PiS government. Unfortunately, the tax-free amount that was promised... I do not know if you remember, but the law firm of the Prime Minister published such graphics after issuing an exposé. In this graphics you can read that during the first 100 days of government, the Prime Minister will raise to 8,000. PLN tax-free amount. Unfortunately, this did not happen, and PiS, when he introduced this law, broke that contract with the voters and broke the contract with the Poles. PiS lied to the Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u70	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Changes affect a much larger group of citizens than just a handful of entrepreneurs. In closed investment funds making active investments in the Polish stock market, debt instruments, receivables or real estate, there are located about PLN 20 billion. The investment certificates of these funds have been offered over the past years to tens of thousands of individual investors in the offer of banks and other financial intermediaries. The introduction of double taxation of investment funds will completely eliminate the attractiveness of this form of investment, which will affect all holders of such units and may deprive them of their savings. Of course, another issue is the massive declines in the stock market, which we can already observe since this printing has appeared. Hence my question: Is not only the Members of the applicant, but also the Ministry of Finance aware of this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u71	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! My question is why you have two completely separate cases, i.e. concerning the taxation of FIZs and the amount of free money, they included in one project. You could add VAT to that, I don't know, education, anything. Perhaps it would be useful to draw up an agenda where we would consider everything at once and then it would be even more clear. And I'm gonna focus on the FIZ. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to debate the FIZ and in some connection with another law, then with the law, with the provisions relating to capital gains tax. Because I understand that we can tax FIZs, but we should change the rules on taxation of capital investments at this point in time, introduce reliefs or tightenings there. Therefore, I repeat the question: What is the reason for combining two non-binding projects with each other? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if this is a practice for the future, why not combine all the bill projects into one? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u73	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u74	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Out of respect for your marshal, who's speeding up, I'm going to ask you a very short question which at the same time refers to my predecessor's question. Is it true that such a construction of this proposed law is caused only to avoid enforcement, to circumvent the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 October 2015, and that only in order not to comply with that judgment, by the way, have you decided to construct that law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u75	Thank you very much and thank you for your time discipline. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u76	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 22 billion PLN were to remain in the pockets of Polish families. It was them in the election campaign that you promised, that the statistical household would gain some 1,600 zlotys. You've withdrawn from those promises, you haven't valued your tax thresholds, you haven't changed, you haven't valued your revenue costs, you have no intention of doing that. It is not enough that these 22 billion PLN evaporated, in fact you reach deeper into the pockets of Polish families. So I have a question: How much will the budget benefit from maintaining the existing solutions, how much do you take from Polish families? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u78	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, it is surprising that you promise during the election campaign - this is one of your main motives - an increase in the tax-free amount, you keep telling Poles how this amount is embarrassingly low against the background of Europe, against the background of the world, how inadequate is it with regard to what is the needs, and it is the year of your governments and what? You wait until the last moment, you hide the fact that you want to leave that amount at the level it's been at so far. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way to proceed. This is absolutely not fair to Poles, you do not fulfill promises, you lie to society. This can't be right. I would like to ask how much longer you will lie to the Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u79	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! When you are pursuing the reform of Minister Zalewska, which I call the wrong touch of education, you say that you are fulfilling the electoral promises that this is a matter of decision of Poles who - 60% He wants to liquidate the middle school - they want it because they chose you. On the other hand, the amount free was also your election promise. Let me remind you that, in the election campaign, you promised to execute the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment and increase the amount of freedom. And here is the question: Why are some promises that are bad important to you, other promises that would allow you to leave in your pockets? Quite a lot of money for Poles, aren't you? It's about time you told the Poles that you bought your election votes with their money. Without fulfilling the promise of increasing the amount of free money, you are actually raising money from them to pay for your future electoral success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u81	Thank you, Member. And Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u82	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are, of course, discussing the majority of the tax on individuals, and my question concerns this part of the printing project 969, which concerns corporate tax. Ladies and gentlemen, the way in which the tax is introduced: from day to day, on investment funds that manage 20 billion zlotys, introduces uncertainty in this market for tens of thousands of people who have invested in it, but the effect also applies to more than 16 million people who participate in pension funds, because if funds from closed funds, these 20 billion zlotys, would be withdrawn in a large amount, quickly, this would result in a decrease in the value of shares, a further decrease in the value of shares on the Stock Exchange, a decrease in debt due to bonds, because closed investment funds also operate in this market and the real estate market. So my question is to Prime Minister Morawiecki, whether he is aware of these consequences and whether this tax and the manner in which it was introduced was agreed with him. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Skiba, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, will answer the Members' questions. Please answer the questions very quickly and efficiently.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is true that there is a situation of legal uncertainty as to what is the amount free, what actually expires, whether the mechanism of valorization, which is not there, or the amount free itself. For this reason, this parliamentary project is worthy of support so that taxpayers really know exactly what the tax is. This is the key thing - clarity and transparency are the most important. As far as the questions concerning investment funds are concerned, as the Member has said, this issue is being examined so that, indeed, the problem of tax optimisation by the FIZ is finally resolved. It cannot be that someone who is a producer has a plywood company, pays CIT fairly, and then, of course, as part of the dividend, pays Belka tax - i.e. it is a double taxation standard in Poland - and its competitor, who has its shares, say, 45% its shares in FIZ are exempt from CIT. For this reason, as I understand it, the parliamentary initiative is of course worthy of support in this way. I think the declaration of careful examination of these issues is worthy of support. The aim is that the project should be targeted primarily at optimisation initiatives, and those FIZs that are fairly trying to operate on the capital market and are not related to optimization are not subject to taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. Representative of the applicants Mr Sylvester Tulaev. I hope it's also efficient and fast.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u86	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am aware of these four minutes of delay with regard to the agenda, so very briefly. I can honestly say that I am very surprised at the proposal to reject this project at first reading. But, as I mentioned in my speech, the most shouting will be those who have done nothing in this case for the last 8 years or have done very little, raising the amount by just 2 PLN. When the Polish People's Party says that it is a shy project, I say: yes, Madam, indeed. The Polish People's Party should be ashamed that it has not made this change in eight years. We have made a number of changes for 11 months, implemented a number of social programmes that are being implemented. As I mentioned, 500+, minimum wage, hourly rate, minimum pension,. Accommodation+, many things have been done. Not everything we can do right away, not everything we can do in 11 months. Therefore, our request, our promise, is still valid and we will implement it - we will implement it through a uniform tribute, through the implementation of this announcement, through the implementation of a uniform tax. The entry into force of this tribute is planned for 1 January 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u87	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Committee on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Road Transport Act (Prints No. 959 and 961). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present the report to the committee in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour as rapporteur to present the report of the committee that discussed the Senate amendments yesterday. The Senate has decided to introduce eight amendments into the text of the Act adopted by the High House. All Senate amendments are recommended by the committee. Literally a few comments about some of them. Amendment 1 seeks to ensure that the application for authorisation to pursue the occupation of the carrier is also subject to the obligation to attach a certificate of non-punishment so that it cannot be replaced by its own declaration and to avoid interpretation in the light of which it would be acceptable to use the said documents as an alternative, i.e. a certificate or declaration. In the second amendment, the Senate expressly clarifies that the consequence of issuing a conviction against a person carrying out road transport activities for certain offences is the adoption of an administrative decision which states the loss of the good reputation of the carrier. In the third amendment, the senators introduced the obligation to consult the Polish national organisation which brings together road carriers in the procedure for assessing good reputation. Amendments 4 and 7 delete the provision which amended the delegation for the Minister responsible for transport to issue an implementing act because those provisions are regulated by the relevant Commission Regulation. And I would draw attention to the last, the 8th amendment, in which the Senate decides to shorten the deadline for the implementation of the electronic register of road transport operators by one month, given that, as I reported earlier, the law adopted by the High Sejm was adopted with several years of delay. In the meantime, on 5 October, a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union against Poland was handed down, in which it was found that Poland had failed to fulfil its obligations under the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 5 of the 2009 European Parliament Regulation, which laid down common rules for the occupation of road transport operator. So much for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u89	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr King, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, is the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the report of the Senate Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Road Transport Act, print No. 959. I would just like to remind you that the law concerns Poland's fulfilment of the obligations imposed by the European Union to establish and maintain the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs, who have obtained permission from the competent authority to pursue the occupation of road transport operator. The Senate has made eight amendments to the bill. The Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice intends to support them all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u91	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Caesar Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u92	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Polish road sector is very strong. It is an industry that conquers European road transport markets both when it comes to goods and people. And this law, which we are just finishing on, is intended to increase the chances of Polish carriers on the international market. This bill increases the safety of transport. What is a good reputation? It is a guarantee for customers of transport services to deliver a reliable service. The Platform therefore supports most of the amendments. We have a reservation for one. Amendment 3 assumes that the body assessing the reputation of the entrepreneur will be required to consult Polish organisations of national scope. The majority of carriers do not belong to these organisations, the majority of carriers belong to regional organisations. This amendment therefore introduces an uneven position for entrepreneurs, which is contrary to the Constitution. The Constitution requires that all entrepreneurs be treated equally. We will not support this amendment. Transport safety is also a good road. And here I have a question for Minister Jerzy Szmit about Łódź. The S14 expressway was planned there. We just learned that the tender for this route was postponed to March. Yesterday at the committee meeting, you suggested to the Minister that this investment could be removed from the government's road construction program. Please answer: Will the S14 be built? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u93	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The main aim of the law is to establish a national electronic register of road transport operators. We are all aware that it was the European Commission that demanded Poland to implement this system. We were obliged to introduce these regulations by 1 January this year. Since the previous government has not prepared an amendment, the current government in a hurry, very quickly but very efficiently, after consulting the whole industry, carried out this project. I don't think there's much of a big mistake here at all. Today we are considering this bill after the Senate's amendments. The amendments are in most cases of order and clarification. One of them assumes that the application for authorisation to pursue the occupation of road transport operator would be accompanied by a certificate of non-criminality instead of its own declaration in this case. As regards the amendments that came to us from the Senate, as the Kukiz Posel Club15, we also believe that in the consultations that our carriers are to carry out, not only nationwide carriers' organisations should consult on matters of their own industry, but also regional organisations that have local specificities, in Gdynia or Upper Silesia, and not only nationwide ones. So that with this amendment we will vote against this amendment to come in. We are very glad that we are able to carry out this bill, very good that it comes in, although quite late. She is very much needed by our entrepreneurs, so that no one in Europe who is guarding their market, who wants to push our entrepreneurs out of their highways, from their market, through various regulations in Germany, through the Macron law in France... The good reputation of the Polish transporter will be preserved, will be confirmed and this is very good news for this industry. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u95	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u96	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Road Transport Act adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 6 October 2016. High Izbo! The law concerns the scope of road transport, in particular, the State may remember, the most important elements of this law are the creation of an electronic register of road transport operators and the revision of provisions on good repute. As for the first element, i.e. the electronic register of road transport operators, I still cannot get out of admiration, as it has been possible for so many years not to make this register. After all, this is a register that is required throughout Europe, and there was such danger that the absence of this register would prevent Polish entrepreneurs from carrying out road transport on the roads of western Europe. So it's good that this bill comes into force. It also seems that during the legislative process in the Sejm, which lasted, I will remind you for a few months, we managed to reach a compromise on the solutions in this law, so as to meet the requirements of European law, but at the same time to meet the needs of our entrepreneurs, who are, I will remind you, some of the most existing in Europe - about 25% the transport is carried out by our entrepreneurs. So that we must undoubtedly support this industry. By going to the Senate resolution, I will not discuss all the amendments, because some of them are as obvious as it is, I will focus only on the most important ones, i.e. first, Amendment No 3, in which the senators imposed an obligation on the body assessing good reputation to consult the Polish organisation which brings together road carriers. Ladies and gentlemen, this was mentioned at the subcommittee meeting, then the committee. However, the record that existed at the time was not accepted, and we see this as a way out to meet the needs of entrepreneurs. During their work in committee and subcommittees, they clearly indicated that when assessing good reputation, the social factor is taken into account both in our partners from western Europe and in other matters. We therefore believe that this amendment is a solution to these needs, and we will, of course, support it. We also believe that it is good that the time of entry into force of the Act has been reduced by 1 month. This will allow us to adapt our legislation more quickly to what Europe requires of us. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u98	The Modern Parliamentary Club will support these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u99	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski - the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u100	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the resolution of the Senate on the Act amending the Road Transport Act. In our view, the entire legislative process, which has continued, has fulfilled its tasks, its mission, the provisions have been clarified, so that the expected and necessary for the implementation of the legislation in our view is properly prepared and will serve the development of the industry well. The Senate has tabled eight amendments to the bill adopted. They were discussed in the committee and in our opinion... We will support these amendments, but we do have some doubts about Amendment 3, but we are here on the opinion and opinion of the Minister and the Ministry, and we are convinced that this provision is well, thoroughly analysed and cannot be questioned or questioned in the European Union in the future. So that the Polish People's Party, in line with the decision and position of the committee, will support the adoption of these eight amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u101	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Road Transport Act. Eight amendments were introduced during the work in the Senate on this draft law. Five of them are due to the need to adapt Polish regulations to European Union law, and we therefore have no objections to them. They concern: the obligation of future road carriers to submit together with the application for authorisation of the occupation of road transport operator a certificate of non-criminality, the loss of good repute by the carrier on the basis of an administrative decision issued after the issuing of a conviction against that transport carrier, the amendment of a delegation to the Minister responsible for Transport for the issue of an implementing act and the shortening of the limitation period applicable to all infringements laid down in the Regulation of the Commission of the European Union. The Senate amendment, which raised doubts among some of the members of the Infrastructure Commission, refers to the imposition on the body assessing the good reputation of the entrepreneur an obligation to consult a Polish organisation of national scope, bringing together road carriers, whose trader is a member and which has been operating for at least 3 years. The opponents of this solution call for carriers to sign up to organisations to which they do not belong. However, I agree with the justification of the senators that such verification of the conduct of the business to date can significantly affect the administrative decision issued. Given the delay that we have in proceding these regulations in relation to the EU commitment, it is also important to speed up the provisions on the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs by one month. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the Senate resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u103	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Jerzy Szmit, will speak. You're welcome, Minister, in no time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I will refer only to the two threads of the debate that is taking place here because of the lack of time. As regards the S14 road, which Mr Grabarczyk asked about, I would like to say that this road has not been deleted, it will be implemented. On the other hand, we are not able to say at what time today. Why, at what time, I've explained it repeatedly. You have left the national road construction programme at the level of nearly PLN 200 billion, and the financial limit of PLN 107 billion, and today we need to get it right in time, given the legacy that your government has left us. On the other hand, as regards the second point on the criterion of good repute, the reservations that have been formulated here concern merely consultation. The criterion itself will be assessed by the authority which issued the permit, so it will be either old age or the general inspector of road transport. Thus, it is an opinion which - as always in administrative proceedings, in which there is also a form of appeal to the court in the event of an unfavourable decision - is only an opinion and can be taken into account, although it does not have to be taken into account. In our view, however, it would be good for the government to decide this important decision for each entrepreneur, if it falls into such a procedure, i.e. It is about the possibility of denying a good reputation so that the social voice is present in this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the Minister's opinion, is Senate 3 not harmful to local organisations? Isn't that just favoritism for a nationwide transport organisation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u107	By adopting Amendment 8, the Senate decided to reduce the date of entry into force of the provisions on the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs by one month. Can the shortening of the term vacathio legis have technical consequences for the proper implementation of this law in the institutions concerned by this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u108	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 11.30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 24 hours 11 min 31]] I'm reopening the session. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is print number 980. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted draft resolutions on the celebration of the 210th anniversary of the outbreak of the Wielkopolska Uprising in 1806, as well as on the commemoration of Andrzej Wajda. Projects are 981 and 982 prints respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. High Seym! I would like to inform you that a group of people from the Prague Senior Club and the Praskie Malmazie team are watching the meeting. Welcome. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the celebration of the 210th anniversary of the outbreak of the Wielkopolska Uprising 1806 (print No 981). Allow me to read the draft resolution. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 210th anniversary of the outbreak of the Wielkopolska Uprising 1806. This year marks the 210th anniversary of the outbreak of the Wielkopolska Uprising 1806. It is a proud but little known card of the history of the Polish people. The arrival of Jan Henryk Dąbrowski and Józef Wybicki on 6 November 1806 turned into a patriotic manifestation to Poznań. They called for a fight against Napoleon's killer. The Polish armed movement took over Wielkopolska and then the land of Siedz, Kujawy, Mazowsze and Pomerania. The insurgents also occupied the Jasna Gora fortress. The Greater Poland Uprising, the first of the successful national uprisings, brought hope for the rebirth of Polish statehood. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland wishes to pay tribute to the insurgents of Wielkopolska and express the highest respect and appreciation for their courage and dedication. The joint struggle for freedom and independence deserves to be commemorated. I ask Members to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 210th anniversary of the outbreak of the Wielkopolska Uprising in 1806. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on commemoration of Andrzej Wajda (print No 982). I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the draft resolution right now. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating Andrzej Wajda. On 9 October 2016, Andrzej Wajda - great patriot, outstanding theatre and film director, one of the greatest artists in the history of cinema, winner of the Golden Palm and Oscar, Bachelor of the Order of the White Eagle, Senator of the Republic of Poland in 1989. Andrzej Wajda was an inspiration and symbol of the Polish film school, and at the same time a creator of timeless and appreciated all over the world. His paintings, such as: 'Channel', 'Dishes and Diamond', 'Marble Man', 'Iron Man', 'Katin', 'A ashes', 'Promised Land', were permanently recorded in the history of Polish and world cinema. Thanks to his paintings, the world could get to know and understand the complexities of Polish history. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, remembering the figure of Andrzej Wajda, honors his memory and pays tribute to him for his great merits for the history of cinema and theatre and artistic craftsmanship over the years. I ask Members to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on honoring Andrzej Wajda's memory. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government bill on the support of pregnant women and their families The additional committee report shall be in print No 970-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u109	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I would like to present to the High House an additional report, print No 970-A, on the Government's bill on support for pregnant women and their families, for life, print No 968. At its 29th meeting on 3 November 2016, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 970 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission at its meeting on 3 November 2016 considered 22 amendments to the draft law, including two amendments were withdrawn by the applicant. Amendments 1, 3 and 18 are editorial, linguistic amendments, primarily giving a new title to the Act. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Amendments 2, 4, 6, 10 and 19 are substantive amendments giving new wording to the various articles. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Amendments 5 and 12 introduce a new type of benefit and change the scope of the Act. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Amendments 8, 17 and 20 are substantive amendments which will allow for the preparation of an optimal integrated medical offer. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Amendment 7 gives a new wording to the article. 4. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Amendment 9 extends the legal support. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Amendment 11 gives an article. 9 new wording and relates to the cost of handling the benefits paid. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Amendment 13 adds a new article stating that single benefits are not included in the income referred to in the Social Assistance Act. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Amendment 14 gives a new wording to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. The Commission recommends adopting the amendment. Amendment 15 adds a new article on exclusion from enforcement under the Code of Civil Procedure for Single Benefits. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Amendment 16 is analogous to Amendment 15, but refers to enforcement proceedings in the administration. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. In conclusion, on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I ask the High House to adopt the entire government bill on the support of pregnant women and their families, along with the amendments adopted by the committee, in accordance with print report No 970-A. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u110	Thank you, Member. The amendments tabled will be voted first. In the 1st amendment, the applicant proposes the title of the Act to give the following wording: support for pregnant women and families. Amendments 3 and 18 join with it and we will vote on them together. The Commission, I remind you, is asking for their adoption. You have come forward to ask questions. Time's set for one minute. Mr Michał Kaminski, near the European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the title of this law. Is this title really fit for the bill? For it is difficult here to talk about some support for families. If we consider that parents have an obligation to take care of their children for 18 years, then this benefit is 4,000. PLN means 60 gr per day up to 18 years of age of such a disabled child. Doesn't the Prime Minister feel like you're cynically playing human drama, cynically playing the problems and very difficult choices that people have to make, and you're just doing it to mask the problem that you've driven yourself into? If I were mean, and as you know, I'm not, [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'd say $4,000. PLN multiplied by 25 times is as much as according to the weekly Newsweek spend from public money to protect your president. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: His voice, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u112	Ms Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I am simply ashamed that, here in this Parliament, you want to adopt such a brutal and shameful bill. [[Give me a ticket.]] It has nothing to do with helping people with disabilities, helping and supporting families, has nothing to do with promoting the values on which social policy and state aid should be based. I'm ashamed for all of you, and especially for you women, that you can give women such a fate. This bill is just your usual ideological stubbornness and some archaic views. I don't know why they serve. This bill is a violation of the article. 23 constitutions. You must not grant a benefit in distinction, based on different ages of disability acquisition, and you do it. You condemn women to this and try to bribe them with charity: 4,000. One-off zloty. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's it for? Tears wipes? Shame on you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u114	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 3 and 18 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 387 voted against - 19, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 2nd amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 1. Amendments 4, 6, 10 and 19. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The question is for the Minister and the Prime Minister. Why do you not want to accept the amendments that, above all, deprive you of the unconstitutional provisions you propose? This applies to support - 4,000. zł - cover all children with disabilities regardless of when this disability arose: whether in the womb or during childbirth or when the child is 12. When disability arises, family support should be supported in the first period, both psychological assistance and financial assistance. Why do you reject such amendments? Is that a preview? Exacerbation of abortion laws? Why don't you take into account the real needs of parents and children with disabilities? Why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u116	Thank you very much. The Minister wants to speak. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, is authorised by the government. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to greet and apologize to people with disabilities and families who listen and watch us today. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: For not helping them.]] I believe that the High House should respect these people and their families with greater respect. The Constitution also requires us to treat them in a special way, to support and respect them. With regard to the question and the statement by the Member, of course, the benefit is just one element of support. The project involves the introduction of coordination of support for pregnant women and families with a child with severe irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening disease which arose during the prenatal period of child development or during childbirth, which will be implemented by a family assistant; the introduction of one-off birth benefits, including for those reasons which I have already cited above; the introduction of mechanisms to increase and facilitate access to health care benefits, including priority in access to doctors and pharmaceutical services, increased access to medical devices; appropriate standards of medical services; the preparation and provision of comprehensive information on solutions for pregnant women and families with children with severe and irreversible disabilities or an incurable life-threatening disease which arose during the prenatal period of child development or during childbirth; access to free legal assistance for pregnant women. But above all, the Act introduces an obligation for the Council of Ministers to adopt by 31 December 2016 a comprehensive programme of support for families. I will also remind you that the High Chamber has adopted a whole range of benefits for families, including families with disabled children, at different times. As part of these benefits is maternity benefit, there is maternity allowance, there are nursing benefits, there is 500+, where for families with children with disabilities the income criterion for the first child is much, much higher, and most families with children with disabilities benefit from these benefits. We're talking about a one-off witness that's related to having a baby... [[You've had a year for this.]] ...instead of raising, caring, caring for a disabled child, these are not benefits. Mr President, these are quite different benefits: family, care, which have already been adopted. [[Applause]] [[May I? As a correction, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u118	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, as a correction.]] I see no need for you to straighten up. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 2, 4, 6, 10 and 19, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Three Members abstained in favour of 201, against 226. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment of the applicant to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 propose to add point 4a. This amendment is combined with the 12th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! Speaking from this tribune, when we discussed the citizens' project, the Prime Minister declared broad and all the help for families, for mothers who will be born and raised children with deep disabilities found during prenatal periods or during childbirth. What we are discussing today is symbolic support - not 60, I think 61 gr per day. The Polish People's Party has offered real help to those children who, from the first period of time in particular, require rehabilitation, because this is the basis for improving their health or survival for the next period. We propose that each child be allocated 500 PLN per month. It's gonna be [[♪ The bell ♪]] real support for mothers who called for this yesterday at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u120	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u121	The Prime Minister wasn't at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u122	Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u123	There were concrete proposals there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u124	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law has in its title the wording "For life." Unfortunately, we can say that for the chosen life. It's a form. - and that is what we have heard and heard from mothers who are expecting children or are struggling with raising a disabled child - a kind of moral bribery for those who hesitate to have a moral problem. You have said in your previous statements that eugenic abortion is primarily about children with Down syndrome. My question is why, then, for these children, for mothers who expect these children to be born, there will be no 4,000.? That's one thing. Secondly, if we've prepared a 500+ program for a healthy second child, let's give it 500+ comprehensively. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for a disabled child, regardless of what it is...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u126	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u127	...if you're talking about the complexity of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u128	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 172 Members voted against - 251, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the 7th amendment to the article. 4 in the added mouth. 4 applicants propose that the support referred to in that provision should also be implemented on the basis of the rules laid down in the separate provisions. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u129	Thank you very much. Again, I did not receive an answer at committee meetings. Answer me, Minister, to the question of whether a child with diabetes that is born will receive 4,000 support, whether a child who is visually impaired, deaf, with a heart defect, whether a child with a genetic defect that will be found in his 2nd year of age will receive this support or not. The state in an improper, non-constitutional way divides children into those to whom you support, and those to whom you do not support. Second thing. Parents of disabled children are still worried about what will happen to their children when they turn 18 and their parents become older and older. On this issue, we have nothing yet to propose and it is worth talking about it in the programme, including in this programme, where we are talking about children only up to the age of 18. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u130	The Minister wants to answer, right? Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, Deputy Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, corresponds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u131	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We're talking about two things: the bill and the program. The programme will focus on families and people with disabilities, all those who have become mature and will apply to them throughout their lives. When it comes to the programme, it will be comprehensive, it will provide support for all people with disabilities. In order for it to be, you still have to... [[There isn't.]] But that's what we're asking the vice-president to see to it in the finance committee that there's money for this program, because that's what it's all about. [[You have your finance minister.]] However, as far as the bill is concerned, the doctor decides whether the child needs special care or not. If the doctor so decides, the child will be included in special solutions, while all will be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u132	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 399 Members voted against - 30, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose after Article. 6 add a new article. Amendments 17 and 20 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is raised by Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! This bill is poorly prepared, this law contains rules that are not in accordance with the Constitution. And the fact in this law is that the legislator says something like this: the proposed law will allow children up to 18 years of age with severe and irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening disease, which arose during the prenatal period of development of the child, to benefit from palliative and hospice care outside the order. High Seym, this is the differentiation of society. What about children who have cancer at the age of 3, 4 or 5? How does the Minister imagine that a regulation should be issued for those who run the hospital to receive these children with prenatal defects and that a child with cancer would not be accepted or accepted in line? [[In the same way as now.]] I ask both the Minister - the Minister for Health and the Minister for Labour - to answer the question of how they imagine such a bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u134	Deputy Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I think you're confusing care and medicine bets with hospices. [[Voice from the room: Do not confuse.]] There are queues in the care and care facilities, there are no hospices. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[There's no lines in hospices?]] This bill gives the chance that the perinatal hospital will start to be financed, because at the moment the National Health Fund does not fund any services in these hospices... [[Voice from the room: You don't understand what you're talking about.]] ...but the Minister of Health promised that when it comes to access to hospices... [[You're talking about something else.]] ...and for perinatal hospices, it's every child that needs... [[Minister, do you know what a hospice is? What is palliative care? You say no about it.]] ...support in these hospices, will have access to hospices. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u136	We'll proceed to the... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. President, in what mode? [[Corrigendum.]] Mr President, I did not give you the floor. [[Corrigendum.]] In what mode? How would you like to speak? [[In corrigendum mode.]] In corrigendum mode, please. Mr Rajmund Miller in correction mode. [[He's got two minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u137	Minister! I am surprised that you, as Minister, do not distinguish between what a care and medicine facility is, what a hospice is and what palliative care is. [[Applause]] I have clearly read to you that the bill provides for special, non-rail access to palliative care. [[Get in the microphone.]] Do you know what the word "paliative" comes from? From covering with a coat, or care, a person who dies, who goes away. In this situation, patients cannot be differentiated, because everyone in illness, in misery, is equal. And all these people need proper care. Your justification is not merely a justification that is not in line with the Constitution. That's an inhuman justification. Tell that to all parents who have this misfortune that they have children who have cancer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u138	Thank you very much. Minister Michałkiewicz answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u139	Once again, so that you can understand me well. Mr President, doctor, I am talking about perinatal hospices. I met with everyone a week ago. [[You're gonna build new ones?]] Last night I spoke to the chairman of the hospice forum. So far, the perinatal hospital had no financial support. From now on, as soon as this bill comes into force, any family with a child who needs support from a perinatal hospice will have support. And that's a step forward. [[On the basis of what legal act?]] And it's too bad you didn't think of that before, because they haven't had that support so far. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u140	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 8, 17 and 20 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 406 against - 26, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 9th amendment to the article. Paragraph 7 4 The applicants propose to delete the words for pregnant women. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 392 against - 27, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 9 applicants propose to add paragraph. 8a-8d and give a new wording to paragraph. 9. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. Questions are asked by Members. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for you. We're supposed to be preparing a bill that's gonna be comprehensive. Today we know for sure that for the chosen group of women, families we offer 4,000. zł. Unfortunately, despite the questions asked by the Health Committee, we have not been able to find out what this law will look like or additional comprehensive child care provisions that will survive and live for a longer time, what it will look like to avoid queues, whether it will be a new law, whether it will be a modification act or a ministerial regulation. Unfortunately, we have not received an answer on this subject. Therefore, questions arise primarily from parents who already have disabled children and are struggling with their upbringing, why they will stay in the queue system, and these heroic mothers will be outside this queue system - if that is the case at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u142	There you go. The question is asked by Mr Dominik Tarczyński, Law and Justice. [[Dominik, tell me it was an adjustment on the cost of service.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Actually, I wasn't going to ask you a question, but listening to these good hearts and good advice, I would like to ask the Minister if it is true that during the years of the Platform's and PSL's governments, the only initiative so-called. The birthplace was the increase of VAT on children's clothes and carts... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Stop it, stop it.]] ...and a reduction in VAT for condoms and coffins. The fact is, in your day, it was cheaper to die. [[Discredited.]] In our day, it will be cheaper to be born. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u144	It's just that, ladies and gentlemen... [[It's really embarrassing.]] Let me remind you that we are discussing the 11th amendment to the article. 9 and it's about adding certain paragraphs, not about the whole policy of one or another government. But Minister Michalkiewicz wanted to speak here, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! For those who listen to us [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Parents of disabled children wanted to say very clearly: All children, all families who need support, will receive support. Some - in the wording of this law, others - from a comprehensive program which will be adopted before the end of the year, some - in children's hospices, others - in perinatal hospices. It depends on the needs of the system and the complexity of the support. This support package will be tailored to a specific case, a specific family, a specific child. The Minister of Health promises that the funding of hospice benefits will be increased and any child who needs such help will get help from the hospice. [[Contacts.]] Once again, I stress: Prime Minister Beata Szydło's government will support all children and all families with disabled persons who need support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u146	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. Two Members abstained from voting 401 against - 28, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment, inserted after the article. The new Article 9 proposes that the amounts of one-off benefits should not be included in the income referred to in Article. The 8th Social Assistance Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rapporteur spoke here today about the fact that these are only technical amendments. And this shows how you treat your citizens - in a technical way. You're gonna make a bill in two days. Yesterday at the committee meeting about an hour. 22, when the committee began, Members: Mrs Krynicka, Mrs Mazurek and Mr Mosiński insulted the women who took part in this committee yesterday. I'd like to ask you if you have the courage to come here and apologize to these ladies because that's where they're sitting. Do you have the moral courage to come and apologize for your behavior yesterday? [[Look me in the eye.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u148	I would like to point out to you that you have not spoken about this, so in the future I will be... [[Oh!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...miss, so to speak, he listened attentively to whether or not you were talking. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, but you insulted...]] Member, but that was not a question. That was a question. Not about that, ma'am, so I can't... I'm so sorry, ladies and gentlemen. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 416, against - 7, with two abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose to extend the scope of the programme's recipients. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 425, no one voted against, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 833 of the Code of Civil Procedure, applicants propose new wording § 6. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The quick way to proceed with this bill, all these amendments, it still doesn't do the job that's crucial. This bill is a simple copy of the Health Benefits Act, which has been in force for several years. She does not work and does not respond to the needs of families with children with disabilities, but only because health care and health care are not working in Poland today. We asked at the committee's meeting, we asked during the debate what the Minister of Health was going to do to find wonderful resources for rehabilitators, physiotherapists...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u150	I call on you to speak to the point, Madam President, because we are talking about the new wording of paragraph 6. [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Amendment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u151	Mr. Marshal, this is for the point, because this article and this amendment...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u152	Then refer to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u153	...if you get acquainted with them, it is the fact that families with children with disabilities will have access to the benefits that the Constitution guarantees them, which the Health Benefits Act guarantees them. [[This is an enforcement amendment.]] As of 1993. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To this day, it doesn't work, and the Minister of Health says it's gonna be okay. [[Applause]] [[Quiet!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u154	Thank you very much. I'd just like to finish my statement on the question. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform. [[Not about that either. Speak immediately.]] [[Mr Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Indeed, Mrs.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! I'm gonna repeat my question because I didn't get an answer. Do you, by introducing the provisions of this law, think about tightening up abortion laws in relation to today's law? Do you intend to include in the Senate, in line with the work of the committee and the proposal of Mr Uściński, the help of mothers whose pregnancies are the result of crime? Are you going to do it in the Senate? I ask for a clear statement on this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u156	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 429, no one voted against, and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. The 10th Enforcement Act shall propose a new wording to the applicants. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The law is dated November 2nd, it's November 4th. Yesterday we had 22 amendments to this bill. You are saying that a comprehensive programme will be in place by the end of the year. Disabled people extremely need support, absolute agreement on this issue, only the method of proceding, speed... I can say this: either you will be evaluated qualitatively, or quality, or somehow it will be. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: What does that have to do with anything?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u158	Madam, your question does not concern the 16th amendment. Ms Anna Maria Siarkowska, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is the last amendment that we will be voting on before the High House votes in favour of this project called "For Life." Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! Yesterday, however, another amendment was tabled by Members of the various clubs who are sitting in this Chamber. This amendment, which was intended to fulfil the intention that you made in the title of the Act, means that this law is really for life. The amendment concerned the abolition of prenatal discrimination against persons with disabilities. She was supposed to restore their dignity and restore the legal protection of their lives from birth. What happened? Well, once again... [[It wasn't.]] ...respectful to you, the PiS authorities have broken the spines of their fellow Members. The PiS members were forced under pressure from their authorities [[♪ The bell ♪]] to withdraw signatures. What's a different word than Pharisaicism? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u160	Thank you, Member. Mr Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question from the cycle: Is the truth... Continuing with the statement of one of your fellow Members, I ask: Is it true that the benefit, the benefit for parents looking after a disabled child in 2006 was PLN 420 and today it will be 1490? Is it true that over the last eight years, the amount spent on disabled children has increased from 0.5 billion to 2.3 billion? Is it, after all, true that the benefits currently transferred, the benefits to pregnant women and after birth are recently a year's maternity leave, is it a father's leave? And is it true that every woman who has a baby in Poland, even if she hasn't worked, gets 1000 PLN for a year, regardless of whether it is healthy or disabled? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Every month.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u162	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that we are voting on the 16th amendment, which proposes a change in the wording of § 4 on the enforcement of various types of benefits and allowances. [[Applause]] I see no need, Minister, for you to answer. The questions weren't about. [[Yeah, sure.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. No one voted against, one Member abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Members have come forward. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u163	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I regret that you did not support our amendment, which gave 500 PLN per month until 18 years of age to rehabilitate those children we are talking about here today. And that's what I'm checking. [[If we find the gold, we'll find the ladies.]] You say beautiful words here: we give, we support, we support. We really wanted to help these families, these children. So? Turns out it wasn't that for the next year your program would be a dead program - 4,000. zł, 61 gr. [[How's Janek Bure?]] Prime Minister, Minister, you have called for your ideas to be supported here. We'll support any good idea. Will you support any good idea that can help these children, these families? Just prepare these ideas, that's enough. It depends on one gesture, one nod with a finger. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u164	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u165	We will really support these ideas, and if we make good ideas, then support them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u166	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday in this Seym a very noble initiative was born to add to this draft law, which is entitled "For Life," a provision that will endure eugenic abortion, which will abolish discrimination against disabled children during the prenatal period. [[Who said that?]] And what did it turn out to be? Although there are declarations by the Law and Justice authorities, although there are declarations by the President on this matter that they support this, it turns out that this amendment had to be withdrawn because the number of signatures fell below the required one because Members of the Law and Justice had been forced to withdraw signatures on eugenic abortion. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] That means that law and justice support eugenic abortion. This is an outrage. Don't call the welfare benefit law "For Life," because conservative, Catholic, national, pro-life environments remember how you behaved and in 2007 and now. You're not for life. [[Applause]] [[Don't wave a finger at us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u168	I'd like to ask you to answer me with a question that's either complete or starting with a question. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, I've got a briefcase with your promises from the last few years. [[Ours was blue.]] Yesterday I even quoted a few words from your speech. For your actions you had not a year of this term, only 8 years of opposition, 8 years to which you like to appeal, criticizing the actions and omissions of the government of PO and PSL. What were you doing back then? Why, instead of promising support and patting on the shoulder of those poor, disfellowshipped, disabled people, didn't you prepare systemic changes at that time, just now, in two weeks, you're introducing a bill written on your knees that meets a drop in the sea of needs? Prime Minister, why are you taking care of future disabled people instead of those who need help today, those who beg under your offices and offices asking for justice? [[And what did you do during your reign?]] Why are you only helping these people until they're 18? Why don't you take care of adults? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want to help them? Minister, you're talking about the program.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u170	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u171	Take the bill that the Modern is making today...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u172	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[What have you done for 10 months?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u173	It is a law on adults with disabilities, guardians of adults with disabilities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u174	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u175	You've got solutions ready. Turn them on, please, on your show. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u176	There you go. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Prime Minister! High Izbo! Madam Prime Minister, the Lifetime Act is a stage. That's what it should be called, it should be called a stage, because it's not a comprehensive solution. The stage was also a law which introduced a healthcare professional as a function to assist intellectually disabled people. The stage is also the printing number 772, which, submitted by the Kukiz club15, has been located in the Sejm since July. In this print, a project that evens out care services for people with disabilities regardless of when this disability arose. Prime Minister, or as part of an article. 10, this declaration that the government will accept all comprehensive solutions, including this stage, this print project 772 will be adopted? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u178	Thank you, Member. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I propose to Members, particularly the Law and Justice, that they learn and take an example from previous governments, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Because it was during previous governments that we started comprehensive care of families with disabled children. I remind you that in 2007, when we embraced governments, the care provision amounted to PLN 420. Today thanks to us is 1300 PLN. [[Applause]] At that time there was 0.5 billion, today there is more than 2 billion PLN. That's the truth. Stop lying to me. What did you do today? You shared families with a disabled child. That woman who's carrying a sick child or when the baby gets sick, she gets $4,000. zł. But it's a child who's gonna get a severe, incurable disease, having, for example. 2 years old, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He won't get the money. That's how much a woman's moral choice costs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u180	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u181	...how much do you pay for this woman's heroism? It's really embarrassing. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Chezernaker, Mr Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that they are the most opposed, and today the most shouting is those who have done nothing in this case for eight years? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Well, Mr.]] It hurts you that we are fulfilling the promises we made to the Poles. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Learn.]] We promised Poles that we would introduce programs that would restore dignity to those social groups that the elite of the Third Republic had excluded. [[Learn.]] [[Voices from the room: A fraud! You're a fraud! You're a fraud!]] [[Voices from the room: Lying!]] The PiS government introduced the 500+ programme, raised the minimum wage, increased the minimum pension, introduced the minimum hourly rate. A month ago, the Prime Minister announced the introduction of the Life Act, which is the legal framework for the programme, which will be presented in detail by the end of the year. We are aware that this bill is the beginning and direction, a good direction for years. [[Learn, man. Learn and find out.]] If the proposed amendments are not sufficient, this follows Only that for years [[♪ The bell ♪]] You ruled out other social groups and despised other social groups. [[Voices from the room: Lying! Lie! Lie!]] [[Read with understanding.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u184	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u185	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u186	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u187	A good change is that this power has dealt with the real problems of the citizens. [[Read it, read it.]] And you're not gonna yell at me about that good change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u188	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask you not to shout because I do not think I am heard by the Member, the Member does not hear me. Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, Deputy Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law "For Life' does not really deal with abortion, it does not deal with the 1993 project. The Prime Minister has promised to create a bill that will help women who find out that they are pregnant with a difficult pregnancy. The Prime Minister promised... [[There's one thing she promised.]] ...prepare a comprehensive program that will support families with people with disabilities. The Prime Minister is fulfilling her promises. [[Your complex.]] As for what Mrs. Pursue asked, of course this is one of the stages, perhaps the first stage, although already during this term there were laws that dealt with the affairs of people with disabilities. She does not even know that she has already voted three laws in this term, which met the demands of parents of disabled children. If we are bragging about what someone has done, I would very much like the Modern Party to show its comprehensive support program for people, families with disabled children. [[Applause]] As regards the Platform, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment PwC announced that about 16 places Poland improved in terms of spending on family policy. [[Yeah, thanks to us.]] Right now, we're in fourth place. Whereas, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know why... [[You haven't done anything yet.]] ...you're bragging that after the protests, when parents and children spent the night in these hallways... [[That's not true.]] ... You have raised the family benefit. [[Stop lying.]] [[Shut up.]] Unfortunately, parents, those who protested, remember that. Ladies and gentlemen, we certainly believe that children and families with a disabled child should be connected. If any of you are in the process of working on the programme with positive initiatives, positive ideas, we will certainly take them into account. [[That's not true. You're not taking anything into account.]] We want to build a good program for life, and it is certainly not the end, and the beginning of the government's actions is Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u190	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 970, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] 428 Members voted. The vote was 267, against - 140, with 21. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has passed a law on support for pregnant women and families. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on the Amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Museums. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 924. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 924, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 429, 1 member voted against, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on the Amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Museums. We return to the consideration of item 11 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. Formal applications. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform, is reporting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. I ask that the sitting of the Sejm be adjourned so that the Prime Minister has the opportunity to review the arguments made yesterday during the debate on the appeal of Minister Zalewska, [[Applause]] And to decide to dismiss the Minister. This reform proposed by Minister Zalewska to the Polish school is the most unprepared reform in the history of Polish education. [[The world.]] The school doesn't want a revolution, it can't be a field of continuous experiments, especially political ones, because they're not substantive changes. Thanks to the introduction of junior high schools into the Polish educational system, our education has been successful, which is reflected in high places in international rankings. Junior high school is rated by most graduates as a place for their comprehensive, good development. It is thanks to Polish good teachers, and the state as a reward for it you want to eliminate the middle school, you want to take the work away from Polish teachers. Have you considered this? Because that was your campaign program? This is a complete misunderstanding. You do not have any reflection on the fact that parents protest, teachers protest, trade unions speak ill of this reform, and, finally, self-government officials also misjudge this reform. Minister Zalewska wants to be a great reformer of Polish education and has a chance to become a pest on an unprecedented scale. [[Applause]] Prime Minister, I would like to remind you of the Minister's statement from the meeting of the Education Committee. Minister Zalewska said she needed 13 years of work to finish this education system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's hope those aren't prophetic words. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u192	Thank you very much. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In paragraph 184, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 doesn't I suppose you have missed the point. Maybe you meant your lips. 3. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u193	Thank you, Marshal. I'm gonna keep my voice down because I'm sick, but with art. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of [[Don't say anything.]] I will not refer to the assessment of Minister Zalewska... [[Don't yell.]] ...because I did it the day before yesterday on the committee and yesterday in the debate. But yesterday in the debate I heard a speech, I listened to it to the end, Prime Minister Szydło, who was proud of the reforms she was introducing in Polish education. [[Right.]] From this place she spoke, she was proud and bragging, and she was happy. [[So do we.]] So I have a question for you, Prime Minister. Do you know about this reform - not only about middle school, but also about the withdrawal. From sending six-year-olds to school - do parents think? I'll tell you what my parents told me, who, like me, have kids in the same class, meet and talk. And they said to me, "I'm sorry, Jacek..." [[It was all about last night.]] I think this reform is so that you politicians can have a stupider nation and manipulate it better. [[Applause]] I will say, Maciek - I am addressing you now, Maciek, from this bleacher...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u194	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u195	...don't put us all in the same bag.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u196	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, um...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u197	Those who are introducing this reform are the ministers of the government of Mrs Szydlo. [[Who's Maciek?]] Those who support this reform are sitting here. They're members of the PiS...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u198	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, Can you hear me? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Quiet!]] Can you hear me? [[Voices from the hall: Maciek!]] Mr President, you are speaking in an irregular way. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr President, you are speaking in an unacceptable way, so please leave the platform. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are preventing me from taking part in the proceedings. Mr President, this is the second time I have warned you that you are preventing me from taking part in the proceedings. Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 I would like to call you back to order, and I would like to state that you are preventing the proceedings from being held. [[But he's gone.]] And you're already facing a legal, financial penalty. [[Game in the hall, applause]] Mrs Marzena Machalek, also with a formal proposal. But I'd just like to ask you to keep the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for a break and that the club presidents explain to the Members, in particular... [[Get Protasiewicz out of here.]] ...possessed by POs, what happened to education for eight years when they ruled. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] The proposal you have prepared, and I have the impression that not all Members have read it, is terrible in language, irresponsible and dangerous. And it's dangerous because you're trying to keep the status quo, which is what you destroyed when you trashed Polish education for the last eight years. [[You're lying.]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Sit down.]] Your only success is pushing six-year-olds into unprepared schools. And maybe we need to explain it to you, too, because you don't know the data. Over 60% of parents support education reform. [[Applause]] [[Which one?]] Over 50% Poles in general... [[Voice from the room: Which one?]] ...supports education reform. Check your data and your research... [[It's a lie.]] ...and prepare for that. Maybe you guys need a break for that. I would like to say that this reform is necessary, necessary, because if it had not been implemented, the Polish education system could have collapsed. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] That's what you've led to. [[What's she talking about?]] This reform will not only improve the quality of education. We're going to restore the general education schools you've disassembled, we're going to restore good general education, we're going to strengthen primary schools, we're going to... [[What's she saying?]] ...to protect teachers from uncontrollable changes. [[They're fired from work.]] You're scaring the teachers. You scared the teachers on the occasion of the reform when we restored the school responsibilities for children at the age of seven. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As a result of this reform, no teacher was fired and 2 000. teachers received additional work. You lie and try to protect yourselves when it comes to your own mistakes... [[Time, Marshal.]] ...and neglect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u200	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I must inform you that I will now move on to the vote. [[Voices from the room: Applicant...]] I will not accept formal proposals because of the formal proposals... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, listen. ...are used by your Members to present, and at the moment there is no debate. [[Mr. Marshal...]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education, Anna Zalewska, would like to raise her hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The statutory majority is 231. The vote was 168 against 253 and 11 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of National Education, Ms Annie Zalewska, in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] We are returning to the review of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the Budget Act for 2017. The additional committee report is in print No 949-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Sasino to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm at its 29th meeting on 3 November 2016 pursuant to Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 949 to the Committee on Public Finance in order to examine the proposal and the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Public Finance considered this proposal and amendments which were tabled at its meeting on 3 November 2016. During the second reading, as I said, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety - the proposal was made by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - and three amendments were tabled. The Commission voted on this proposal and amendments during the debate. The Commission asks the High House to reject the proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and to accept all three amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u202	Thank you very much. As we have heard, the committee makes a proposal in an additional report to reject the draft and the amendment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. I would remind you that the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is raised by Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We've filed a motion to reject this project because it's a bad project. One of the arguments which has not been raised so far concerns the case of circumvention of laws and the possibility of allocating PLN 300 million from the budget of the Minister for National Defence to the modernisation programme, which is being implemented by the Minister for the Interior. 300 million PLN without the Sejm's control, behind the back of the Members. This is a violation of special conditions concerning the taking off of money for the military, as well as the Public Finance Act. We are fighting over small money here, but this 300 million can only be spent outside the back with the approval of the Minister of Finance. This is the Crown's argument against this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a trick for the Sejm to have the opportunity in the future to take money out of the army and devote to other purposes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u204	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 195 voted against - 227, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the first amendment to Article. The 12th draft law of the applicant proposes to add paragraph 1. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 225 voted against - 186, 1 member abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose to add an article in the draft law. 19a incorporating an amendment to Article. 84 Public Finance Act. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 228 voted against - 196, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, asks questions before voting on the whole of the bill. [[Voice from the room: No!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] I wanted to ask the government: Why are you freezing the welfare fund of people who have the lowest salaries? You don't give a higher tax-free amount, freeze the welfare fund, freeze or reduce the money you want for the economy. You're looking hard for money. This project is a reduction of nearly PLN 3 billion in money that could be in the pockets of Poles. You're taking that money away from them. I was talking about a trick. You are trying to test Parliament how far it will go so that it does not have control over the state's finances. I was talking about the project of the possibility to transfer the amount to PLN 300 million today, and maybe one day you will move on and you will want to take even more money out of security, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Leaving money...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u207	...for territorial defense? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u208	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, at the beginning, I wanted to remind the Platform Members that, it seems, four times in a row, you have frozen an occupational welfare fund, [[Applause]] And now you're tearing up crocodiles over the fact that PiS is freezing him. Although you're right, because it's frozen. It also freezes the base amount in the budget, and it proclaims everywhere and since it will raise the level of wages, raises the level of income of society. If you only raise the level of social income through social expenditure, we will not get far. If you want to create sustainable wage increases, sustainable economic growth, including in terms of population income, you should defrost the basic amounts, both in terms of wages and the occupational welfare fund. That's what's missing. Question: "What happened that you made the same mistake as the Platform?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u210	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 949, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 228 voted against - 198, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on special arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2017. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Complaints against the right of the party to investigate the case in preparatory proceedings conducted or supervised by the prosecutor and judicial proceedings without undue delay and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 964-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. The Sejm at its 29th meeting on 3 November 2016 pursuant to Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 964 to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for the purpose of examining the proposals and amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the proposals and amendments at its meeting on 3 November 2016, requests the Sejm to reject the requests of the Modern and Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform to reject this law and to reject the 3 amendments tabled by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club concerning: deletion of the article. 1, delete Article. 2 and deletion of Article. 3. I would like to remind you that all these amendments concern provisions introducing the disclosure of statements of property of judges, including general courts and military judges, and procedures for disclosure of statements of property by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the first President of the Supreme Court. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt 3 amendments - points 4, 5 and 6 - tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. This concerns the deletion of Article. 11, because this article is also included in the draft Constitutional Tribunal Act on organisation and proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. This project will be processed today. The applicants therefore request the repeal of the Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5. They also request support for the amendment concerning the making available of the disciplinary file set out in point 5 and the amendment set out in point 6 which sets the time limits for the entry into force of the provisions contained in Article. 10 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 16. A minority request was also made by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, which concerns the deletion of the article. 10. This is where the High House needs to be clarified. This article is already in force because it was introduced by the Act of 10 June 2016. It's just a modification. Previously, it was for a court order to complete an investigation or an investigation at the prosecutor's request, and now such a complaint will not deserve. This is an extension of the statutory possibility for the prosecutor to submit such requests either as a result of the need to seek evidence or where other steps are needed to clarify the circumstances of the case, and only applies in cases which have been addressed in the form of an indictment or a request for a conviction or a conditional remission before the entry into force of the Law of 10 June 2016, which entered into force in August 2016. High Izbo, it is about those provisions that have been introduced since 1 July 2015 when the principle of adversariality was in force. Following the experience of the National Public Prosecutor's Office, many of the prosecution's applications have been poorly prepared and the courts in proceedings in force since 1 July 2015 have no possibility of ex officio acceptance of evidence, they can only do so in exceptional circumstances, in exceptional justified cases. That is why there is such an amendment because it raises a number of controversy or doubts. I repeat once again that this is an accident act and only applies to a small category of cases. As far as the whole of the bill is concerned, the committee recommends that the High House adopt it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u212	There you go. And thank you, sir. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. As we have heard, the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. Questions are raised by Members. Mr Borys Budka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! I have a question for the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware that this law, which bears such a title, misleads the addressees and has nothing to do with any compensation for persons for the length of prosecutorial and judicial proceedings? I have a question to the Prime Minister: Do you realize that at the moment, as a result of the omissions by the Minister of Justice, several hundred judicial posts remain vacant only because the Minister of Justice does not fulfil his obligation, which is that he must declare the procedure of the competition? How do you want to look citizens in the eye when, on the one hand, you say you want to improve, improve the justice system and, on the other hand, block a few hundred legal jobs and that is why these matters will last longer? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the Prime Minister aware of this and able to answer me? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u214	Thank you, sir. Mr Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have already said so much wrong about this project, that I was wondering what else to use, and I thought to myself: fortunately there is a Prime Minister in the Chamber - the Prime Minister, because she signs the order of the President of the Council of Ministers. Since it has not changed it, this regulation is still in force and the Prime Minister is his representative, it is your President's regulation. It states: The decision to draw up a draft law is preceded in particular by an analysis of the legal situation. In the mouth. 2 states: The law does not contain provisions that regulate matters beyond its scope of subject matter and subject matter. This project goes beyond that scope, these seven laws have no relation to each other, the smallest, and therefore there should be seven draft laws, not one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister, I hope you will apply your regulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u216	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u217	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, this project is another example of the defective legislation of the Sejm, consisting of several projects contained in one project, ladies and gentlemen. But what is important? As Kukiz,15, we are in favour of the disclosure of the judges' property statements, because we are in favour of the disclosure of life. Nor is it as you say that there are few judges in Poland, because in Poland there are the most judges in Europe. That's the other thing. [[Applause]] Third case. The complaint against the chronicity which you are operating here, that there will be greater availability, has an increased fee of up to 200 PLN, and the compensation for the length of proceedings is reduced. As far as prosecution proceedings are concerned, we could recognise this if this provision were properly formulated. It is misconstrued and there is no assurance that the judges will apply it according to the intention of its formulation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, we will vote against in full because of defective legislation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u218	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 196 Members voted against - 228, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 1 including amendments to the Law on the System of General Courts. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs. Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Despite many of the amendments tabled during the legislative process, this proposal is still bad. Answer me: Is it true that in most European countries with a well-established democracy, judges do not make statements of property, and yet corruption is close to zero, the duration of proceedings is rare and the justice system has a high social recognition? That's where we should be headed. Why does a ruling party, instead of taking a role model and setting high standards, rely on countries where power wants to know everything about its citizens, [[Applause]] And the best thing to do is to direct their actions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's where this bill is headed. Please accept amendments 1, 2, and 3. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u220	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. There were 140 votes against and 256 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 2 containing amendments to Article. 10 Law on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. There were 139 votes against, 260 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 3 incorporating amendments to Article. The 28th Law on the System of Military Courts. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 139 Members voted against - 262, 29 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the sole request of a minority, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 10 containing amendments to Article. 5 Act amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, the Act on Competitions of Doctor and Dentist, and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patients. The question is raised by Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, in this provision, you want to give the prosecutor more power than the court's authority, because you want the prosecutor to be able to annul the judgment of the court of first instance if he applies for the withdrawal of the file from the court. The court has to give the prosecutor the file, and he's gonna repeat the case. You want to repeat the proceedings of many cases that are already in the courts, so you will lead to the length of these proceedings, for which we will pay further penalties in Strasbourg. Who do you want to protect this way? Why do you want the Polish justice system to be even worse? Why do you act against the victims who are waiting for righteous judgments? Where, in which country is it possible to apply such a provision so that the prosecutor is more important than the court? You're giving the prosecutors power over the courts. It's impossible in a democracy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] State of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u222	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General at the same time. Is it true that the regulation contained in Article. 10 is intended and aims to reverse the negative effects of the so-called. the adversarial process? I would like to remind you that the adversarial process, a foreigner of Polish legal culture, was introduced by the Act of September 2013 prepared by the Government of the Civic Platform. This law introduced a departure from the so-called. material truth. From now on, the court has no obligation to seek the truth. What's important is who's gonna present themselves better in court. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was a fantastic bill for rich criminals equipped with renowned law firms. We want to reverse the consequences of the prosecution's indictment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u224	Thank you very much. Minister... [[That wine, up there, over there.]] Deputy Minister of Justice Michał Wójcik is authorised to respond on this matter. You're welcome, Minister. Minister Michael Wójcik, you're welcome. Excuse me, Minister, who gave you the change? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Mr. Minister, let's go.]] There you go, Minister Michael Wójcik. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What to say now, right?]] [[Tell me a joke.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u225	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! During the legislative process, we have repeatedly explained the meaning of this law, a law which, first of all, meets the expectations of citizens, a law which is in line with the idea of justice. Once again, I really want to stress this. The issue of a complaint about chronicity. Because the state during the entire legislative process... I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but I'm gonna answer all these questions right away, which have also come up on the occasion of a motion for rejection. Well, I would like to say to you that the complaint for chronicity is an instrument that has the right of the citizen. This has so far been the case that 55% of citizens' complaints have been rejected and rejected for the most trivial reasons. This bill, among others. is used to strengthen the position of the citizen. And this is not a conclusion, which results only from our reflections as a governing camp, but also from the case law of the European Court, because it was signalled in various cases which were just before the European Court at the request of Polish citizens. The issue of disclosure of property claims is, in turn, an issue that really arouses great interest on your part. I have already said many times here, on this speaker, that we are trying to modernise the justice system so that citizens can finally trust this dimension. The state almost every step of the way, at every stage, also yesterday I explained this in the Sejm, during yesterday's committee meeting, you ask what it really shows that we want the disclosure of the property statements of the judges. This follows, as I said yesterday, from common sense, logic, life experience and is to restore confidence in the Polish justice system, which is really at a very low level. Mr Kropiwnicki asks, in turn, why we are introducing a regulation that gives us the opportunity to actually withdraw cases for the preparatory procedure - ana, Mr Kropiwnicki, and this is explained here, among others. Mr Piotrowicz, because you have made such changes in the criminal procedure, that they have actually served all but those ordinary citizens. It's about the principle of adversariality that was in force. We must expect that in many cases errors have been made, that the evidence was not properly prepared, nor could it have been correctly assessed, i.e. the judgments were unfair. In short, we want criminals to be behind bars, not walk the streets free. That's what this is about, among other things. in this amendment. I understand, Mr. Marshal, I think I've answered all the questions that have been raised so far. If there's another one, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u226	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 154 voted against - 240, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 11 containing amendments to Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5th Constitutional Court Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 337 against - 63, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant shall propose that the paragraph be deleted. Article 2 The 15th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 352 voted against - 48, 30 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 17 (2) of the Law amending the applicant proposes that also paragraph 2. Article 1 The 16th Amendment Act entered into force on the day following the date of publication. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 234 voted against - 175, 22 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. We have questions. Mr Borys Budka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, I haven't heard from you the answer to my first question, but I have a second question, and you might want to answer that. How do you want to improve the image of justice, when it is from your mouths that you speak about a group of guys, when the Deputy Minister of Justice in this speaker misleads the High House during the second reading of this project, saying that judges have not made statements of property and have been doing so for years? How are you gonna fix the image of the justice system when the next deputy minister says that the judges of the tribunal can drink espresso and eat cookies? And you have the audacity to say that anything in this regard you want to improve? This bill is one great hypocrisy. It's just to slow down some political behaviour, and citizens have nothing positive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With this bill, they won't make it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u228	Please. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I have the impression that this is a very instrumental act. The European Court of Human Rights ruling on the protection of the rights of the party was used here. On the other hand, one thing is surprising, and it is difficult for you, ladies and gentlemen, to understand or explain why there is a part in this law concerning the disclosure of claims of property. After all, they are examined by the tax authorities, they can be examined by the special services. You have the so-called. Misiewiczów in both the fiscal apparatus and the special services. I mean, you guys can investigate. Isn't it simply about serving Poles in the world of games, distracting them from the important problems that are in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u230	Please. Mr Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand, Minister, that from now on we understand the principle of adversariality differently, because until today it meant so much: the prosecutor - the evidence, the defendant - the evidence. Therefore, it was in the courtroom that the prosecutor could present evidence of the defendant's guilt. There is no need to rescind the case to the prosecution's preparatory proceedings unless this provision is for a different purpose, because unfortunately, you could not have requested the dismissal of the proceedings before the court, but in the prosecutor's office you can do it yourself if you consider it necessary. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Shh, don't scream.]] Another issue - transparency. I've been a judge for years and I've been making property statements, and I've been writing there honestly what I have, and the IRS has been controlling me every year. There is no reason to doubt that the judges are making these statements. There's no reason to doubt that they don't write the truth in them, because for concealing the estate, he threatens the supreme dimension of the judge. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - to take away the right to be a judge. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Has this ever happened?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u232	Thank you very much. At this point, I ask the Vice Minister of Justice Marcin Warchoł to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I answer specific questions. Mr Budka asked a question about the number of judicial posts. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, we have 10,000 in Poland. Judges, a real army of judges. For $100,000. The population is 26 judges, while in the UK there are 3.5 judges, in Sweden we have 7 judges, in Denmark 6 judges, in Spain, in Italy, in France it is from 9 to 10 judges. These judges are well paid. In Poland, the judge earns 2.1 of the national average at the beginning of his career, when his German colleague earns 0.9. In France it's 1.1. As regards justice expenditure, we place ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as regards the countries of the Council of Europe, counting down small countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, first in 34 countries in terms of justice expenditure. These are facts. With these facts, we cannot argue. Mr President, you are therefore asking for more jobs. Question: "Why do you need more jobs?" Are we going to improve the justice system by giving more money? In the last 10 years, spending on assistants has increased by 100%. And which courts work the slowest? The ones with the most assistants. The ones where the biggest money was put on. These are the figures of the 2013 Justice Institute. These courts are the slowest. The Polish justice system needs no reform, it needs reconstruction. More money, more jobs are just wasting potential, wasting all taxpayers' money. (PL) Mr President, the responsible authority must not give further jobs when wage increases are not equal, is not proportionate to the increase in labour productivity. As far as the time of proceedings in Poland is concerned, until recently it was still more than 800 days, in a situation where cases lasted on average 200 days before the Lithuanian courts. That's the reality. When it comes to retiring the judge, it's over 10,000. Evil and rising all the time. Most Polish pensioners receive PLN 1550 per hand. These are facts. And you want more jobs? That's the first question. The second question concerned claims of property. Mrs Zofia Czernow asks why these statements are. This question was the same as Mr Pasyk's question. The IRS can't account for it because nobody in the IRS reads it. [[Why?]] [[Quiet!]] [[That's not true.]] The evaluation group of the GRECO countries, countries against corruption, stated that the Polish tax company was unable to verify these claims. [[But you have a minister.]] [[Yes, sir.]] They go there ad acta and then a citizen can write on the Berdychs. In cases where disclosure is required, social control is the best controller of such statements. [[Applause]] Public statements and implementation of the fundamental constitutional principle of transparency. What are you afraid of? Madam President, Marshal Barbara Dolniak asked the question of adversariality: Is the adversarial nature of the dispute between the prosecutor and the accused? No, we don't want to disturb you. But this country, when adopting this law - I am talking about the law concerning the introduction of an unfamiliar system of adversariality in Poland, where you have made the Polish justice system experimental, Americanizing this justice system, bringing de facto justice to the street, because it was a reform for the rich, for those with stuffed wallets... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...you have consciously introduced a solution on the basis of which the prosecutions may enter the court of mistrials. With my father's mouth in this reform, I'll remind you... [[Minister Gowin.]] [[To Gouvin!]] ...you have put in place a solution on the basis of which an indictment can enter the court on lower facts than before. What does that say? This shows that, on the basis of this reform, as has been pointed out, an indictment can enter the court even on the basis of operational evidence. You deliberately agreed to unjust judgments in the courts. [[It's a lie. Don't accuse us of what isn't true.]] You have consciously accepted injustice as the main reason for this reform. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, the basic principle is that the guilty should not be punished and the innocent should be punished properly. [[No, no. The other way around.]] And this change is making it happen. It's a good criminal response. The state of justice, justice is not for the rich, justice is not for the law firm. The indictment of the court must be properly, fairly and carefully prepared. If such acts of prosecution are brought to court, these cases are in the courts with a real ticking bomb, threatening to convict innocents, acquitted guilty persons. We can't allow this kind of pathology. We have to do something about it. Within a year, you have led us to have a real patchwork of three legal states, ladies and gentlemen. And these cases are in court, these cases have to go to the D.A. And why is the court bound by the D.A.'s decision? You're saying the prosecutor of the court. This is an accident provision, which concerns a closed case catalogue that was brought before August this year, does not concern matters for the future. There's got to be a decisive prosecutor's vote in this case. Why? Because the D.A. is an investigator, not a court. The court isn't prosecuting, the court isn't stalking, it's walking around with proverbial magnification... [[Sure. Presumption of guilt is in effect.]] ...or with a marauder feather and a trace and evidence of a crime. There is a prosecutor for this, and the prosecutor has the right, even as a constitutional public-interest spokesperson, to take these matters back in order to, I stress, not to convict the innocent and not to exonerate the guilty. That's what the D.A.'s role is. He will only have six months to complete these indictments, and once again, already completed, he will refer the cases properly prepared to the court again. So that this is an accident provision, a rule aimed at a specific category of cases to make good what you've ruined. [[Applause]] As regards the question of Mr Peterowicz, is it true that art. 10 is going to reverse the negative effects of the adversarial process, so yes, I answered, that's the truth, that's where it's going. It is not true, as Mr Kropiwnicki said, that we are going to annul judgments. There's no such thing here. Mr, from 1969 to 1997 and in 1997, after the entry into force of the new Code of Criminal Procedure, there was a provision in Poland for decades which ordered the annulment of the judgment of the Court of First Instance when the appeal court referred the case to the prosecutor. This has nothing to do with the annulment of judgments, which is simply the consequence of returning the case to the prosecutor in the appeal proceedings. So that it is not surprising, it occurs in other countries, for example in the UK, art. 23a Law on the Prosecutor's Office of 1985 It's nothing new, there's nothing surprising about it, it's an accident recipe and the judgment of the first instance is overruled, the case is back. Of course, she will go to court, but she will go to court for far higher facts, reliable and carefully prepared. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u234	There you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a formal request made by Mr Boris Budka from the Civic Platform club, but I warn you: please follow the formal request and do not use this effect to conduct polemics. [[Preemptive censor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u235	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, There's no need for anticipatory censorship. Dear Prime Minister, I'm requesting a 15-minute recess because I'm forced to protest an exceptional attack by the Vice-Ministers of Law and Justice at the current Deputy Prime Minister... [[Voice from the room: Ojojoj.]] ...the former Minister of Justice of Jarosław Gowin. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] Dear Prime Minister, during this break, I expect the honourable Prime Minister to discipline the Vice-Ministers of Justice with her authority so as not to offend one of the creators of the counter-discipline reform, the changes in the Code of Criminal Procedure, the good reform we adopted in the previous term, the Vice-President, the then Minister of Justice, saying that the reform was prepared for the rich. Ladies and gentlemen, how can you be such a hypocrite to attack your own minister? And you are silent, Minister Ziobro. [[Applause]] [[Shame.]] [[Voice from the hall: Welcome to the podium.]] I'm far from going into what's going on in your coalitions, non-coals, etc., but you have to have a shadow, a little decency, to at least tell the truth from this speaker. I understand that you treat everything as a policy, that you can attack even your coworkers for your sick ideas, but our agreement will not be to treat Minister Gowin in this way. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] One of the few people in this government who behaves decently is treated by you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I signed up for this reform and I still believe that the reform was well prepared at the time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again, I thank Minister Gowin for having had the opportunity to... [[Voice out of the room: Shut it down!]] ...to vote on and cooperate on this reform. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u236	Thank you, sir. I must make it clear, Mr President, that although your request for a break has been correctly formulated, this justification indicates that it was a problem. [[Joy in the Chamber]] and trying to provoke polemics, which is why I do not consider this proposal to be formal. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 964, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 237 voted against - 190, with four abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. We would like to return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Communication Commission to Poles abroad on the draft Parliamentary Law on the establishment of the Eastern Cross. The additional committee report shall be in print No 914-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Michał Dworczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report from the Communication Commission with Poles abroad on the draft parliamentary act on the establishment of the Eastern Cross, print No 889. Yesterday at the meeting, the committee considered and gave a positive opinion on all the amendments tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo, Michael.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u238	Thank you very much. We will vote on the amendments first. In the first amendment to Article. 2 (2) 1 applicants propose an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 412 Members voted against - 2 no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 2 applicants shall propose that the applications referred to in that provision be submitted after obtaining a favourable opinion from the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. In favour - 412 against - 5, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 5. Amendment 6 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is raised by Mr Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u239	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, the project is very good. On the other hand, as in a kind of lens, it shows how the law is being processed in our parliament, i.e.. Quick and sloppy. I must tell you that the first project we received indicated the graphics that were copied alive from Wikipedia or from a computer game that depicted the crown. I stress that one must respect one another. We have requested - and indeed the committee has accepted this request - the so-called. The crown of Chrobrego in this cross, the Eastern Cross, especially since we already have something to refer to, that since 2006 we have a famous military order passed, proposed by the dead. President Lech Kaczyński and hence my question. Of course, we have not been able to prepare the next graphic within 6 hours, and unfortunately the amendments have already been voted out without our amendment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can we, can we have the assurance that in the Senate we will have the state's support for the proper crown, the crown of Chrobry? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u240	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 6 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 383 Members voted against - 37, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In Amendment 4. to Article. 6 after point 3 the applicants propose to add a common sentence. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 427 Members voted against - 1 nobody abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 8 applicants propose that the law should enter into force 6 months after the date of publication. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The applicant's representative and the rapporteur of the committee, Michał Dworczyk, are asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! To answer the Member's question, I must first say that this is unnecessary malice. The Member knows very well that there was a discussion between heraldics and falseists whose opinions were contrary to the shape of the crown. The current crown is stylized, as we know, for the first class of the Order of Virtuti Military. We don't have Chrobry's crown either, so I don't really think anything terrible's going on here. This is a matter of a certain aesthetic assessment, but of course the senators can be persuaded to make a number of changes. High Izbo! Today we are adopting a law establishing the Eastern Cross, a distinction intended for people who saved Poles in Kresów I and II of the Republic in the years 1937 and 1959. This first date, 1937 is a Polish operation, it was carried out by the NKVD, it was the beginning of mass repression, which in the Soviet Union hit our compatriots, and then, after 17 September 1939, also hit Poles on the Kresy II of the Republic. The year 1959 is the end of the second repatriation, and in fact the expatization of Poles from Kresów. Remembrance of those people who often risked their lives to save our fellow citizens is our moral duty. This is the duty of the Polish state. Their actions were an act of courage, an example of Christian mercy, an act of humanity in those inhuman times. Today, when establishing this award, the Polish state will honor those who have made a heroic effort to help our fellow countrymen in these tragic moments. I think a lot of people in this room have met with people from the Kresów. I think many of us have heard dramatic stories about what happened in the East. In these stories there were very often simple, ordinary Russians, Ukrainians, Kazakhs or Uzbeks who helped and sometimes even saved the lives of Poles. These people will be honored today. This distinction will remind not only Poles, but also the nations in the East that we Poles remember that we Poles are grateful for the help we have shown to our fellow countrymen. This distinction will also prove that we Poles can remember the dramatic history, but without hatred, without the application of collective responsibility and blame for the crimes of entire nations and communities, and the superior feeling which accompanies us in this memory is gratitude for the brotherly help given to every Pole. High Seym! On the other hand, it is worth to say, on the occasion of this matter, that by establishing the Eastern Cross, we remind not only of these dramatic events, but also the history and heritage of the Kresów I and II of the Republic of Poland. It's very important. It's part of our Polish identity. Poles often showed empathy towards people and communities of nations who experienced persecution, pogroms, or organized repression. And very well, because it shows our empathy, our sensitivity and openness to others. But sometimes it was possible to get the impression that this empathy and this sensitivity were lacking towards ourselves, towards the Polish people. For a very long time because of the communist regime, then because of the misunderstood political correctness we did not say... [[This isn't a vote now?]] ...about Poles' Gehenna in the East in the 20th century. [[Isn't this voting time?]] We did not talk about the Polish operation, about Katyn, about the Ponars, about the Kuropaty, about genocide in Volyn. Today, please, the High House, we pay tribute to all those who risked their lives saving Poles in the East, secondly, we restore the memory of the legacy and legacy of the entire Kresów, and thirdly, we are creating an important tool for historical policy. Therefore, I ask the High House to support the law on the establishment of the Eastern Cross. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u242	I thank the Member for this comprehensive explanation. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 914, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law on the establishment of the Eastern Cross. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. The additional committee report shall be in print No 957-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. Two amendments were tabled during the second reading. At today's meeting, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considered them and recommended that the High House reject them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u244	There you go. We will vote on the amendments first. In the first amendment to Article. Article 7b (7) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 point 1 applicants propose to reduce the quantity of ingredients in a processed product other than those originating in the territory of the Republic of Poland from 25% to 10%. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 51 voted against - 357, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment of the applicant in the inserted article. 7c propose that only the entity referred to in this provision should be able to use the information of the Polish Product. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The questions are raised by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! As I emphasized yesterday in the position of the Kukiz club15, the Polish product will mislead citizens, because this mark will be used by both Polish companies and foreign companies, companies with foreign capital. I am convinced, and they are showing statistical surveys, that citizens consider this product, which is produced by a Polish company, as a Polish product. That's 66%. citizens. Unfortunately, what is obvious to me and to consumers, to citizens, is not obvious to the Ministry of Agriculture. Therefore, I have a question: How much according to the estimates of the Minister of Agriculture enterprises with Polish capital, and how much foreign capital will be able to benefit from the sign "Polish Product" and what capital the companies are trading [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish and foreign? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u246	So we proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 54 voted against - 364, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to address the question to Minister Morawiecki, Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, because - I use his plan for responsible development, which has a subtitle for Poland will be great or it will not be at all, it is a quote from Józef Piłsudski - on Slide No. 16 [[Joy in the Chamber]] is the inscription: development of Polish companies and capital the basis of strong and prosperous Poland. And here we have points that are absolutely right: stable public finances, fair wages, etc., etc. We agree very much. We're talking about it all the time as Kukiz. Polish product, Polish companies. Why, if we have the possibility, as in this law, do we not use it or strengthen Polish capital and Polish companies, but only strengthen foreign companies? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u248	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No.957, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. There were 395 votes against - 14, 22 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The additional committee report shall be in print No 920-A. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u249	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! In view of the amendments made during the second reading of the draft law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and the referral of these amendments by the Sejm to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I am pleased to present an additional report to the committee. The Commission has examined the proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and 29 amendments. The Commission requests that the proposal to reject the law in its entirety be rejected and that amendments 11, 27 and 29 be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u250	There you go. In the first place, I will put the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety and the same minority proposal. The Commission requests that applications be rejected. Their adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. And here are the questions. Mr Borys Budka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u251	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: what's the bill for? After all, on 22 July this year in this House, we were assured that you have prepared the best possible laws on the Constitutional Court. Moreover, the Constitutional Tribunal examined this law, improved it in some places, eliminating non-constitutional rules. Now you're starting the next stage. I have a question for the rapporteur whether he is aware of the fact that there will be further laws in this area. You also want to translate the 500+ programme into the Constitutional Tribunal - such a slogan: 500+ at the end of your term of office as regards the number of Constitutional Court laws. My second question: Where are the introductory provisions? This is also a question for the rapporteur. Thank you. [[Don't look at me, I don't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u252	Thank you. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[You don't feel sorry for the dresses for this...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Within 12 months, for the fifth time, the sixth time, you amend the Constitutional Court Act. There's already a seventh bill waiting in line. It really looks like an addiction. We know that you are doing this to torment Poles with the topic of the Constitutional Tribunal, but how do you want to rule Poland, if even the law you care about, you cannot write it so as not to update it every two months? [[What about the wire transfer?]] How do you want to create a law without understanding that the rules of law are to be general and not dictated by the current need? [[Can you make a transfer?]] This isn't the only bill you want to update after it's passed. This is a destructive standard. Once you're gone in disgrace, we'll be cleaning up after you for years. Mr Kaczyński! I heard you graduated from law school and even wrote a PhD. I guess there wasn't much Roman law, but a lot of PRL law. [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal...]] [[What's this?]] [[Finger!]] This law is a step towards the People's Republic of Poland. There is no such thing, and there will be no modern consent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u254	Thank you. I merely draw your attention to: please send questions to the Member of the applicant or the rapporteur of the committee. It is known who is acting on behalf of the applicants. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! According to many experts, the draft law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal raises constitutional doubts as well as violates the standards of lawmaking. Without precedent, it is difficult to come to order: the content of the justification of the project contains expert opinions which clearly undermine their independence. Following Mr Marshal's advice, I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. Aren't you worried about the questions, the doubts as to why you are submitting another non-constitutional draft on the Constitutional Court? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u256	There you go. I have a limited field of view here, sir. Well, that's even better. That doesn't even... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. We're having organizational problems here. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill and the first request by minorities would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 395 Members voted. 176 voted against - 218, 1 member abstained. I find that the Sejm has rejected its conclusions. In the second minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. Two and three. The adoption of this minority proposal will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 1 to 4. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. [[Get on the horse!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sometimes guys just to get it over with, somebody's gonna throw it over there. Some case that's unbreakable... I'm sorry, And they think in the silence of the home or in the brain: 'What else is there to screw up, gentlemen? What else would it Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! That's another approach. [[Applause]] another, sixth approach in the last 10 months, with a law to be organised by the Constitutional Tribunal. All the attempts so far have been unsuccessful, they have been challenged as unconstitutional. The first president of the Supreme Court did not leave the dry thread on this bill. I recommend her opinion. I would also like to remind you that the Constitution merely provides for this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that we give the organisation to the tribunal, in accordance with the Article. 197... [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u258	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u259	...and there's nothing about the status of judges. And the question at the end, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u260	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u261	What else would it be? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u262	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 394 Members voted. 177 voted against - 216, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Accepting it will make the 2nd amendment unobtrusive. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to carry your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. 181 votes against - 213, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete the third sentence of paragraph 2. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. 156 votes against - 239, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of the 4th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 185 voted against - 227, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 3 The applicants propose that the judge of the Tribunal may be a person who has the qualifications required to hold the position of the Supreme Court or Supreme Administrative Court and at the time of his election is 40 years of age and not 65 years of age. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! This regulation is an act of incidental nature, a law which has been prepared for a specific formal situation, even for specific persons. Unfortunately, such regulations destabilize the Republic rather than strengthen the foundations of our country. My question concerns this particular amendment and the request for clarification of why we are introducing here the possibility of early termination of the mandate of the judge, although the fundamental law, the Constitution of the Republic, clearly states that the term of office cannot be interrupted. Mr Piotrowicz explained this in an unacceptable way, which points to a lack of understanding of the role of the tribunal and the position of the judge. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u264	Thank you very much. This is an amendment tabled by the club. The applicant is not asking because this is not the applicant's amendment. We therefore proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. There were 163 votes against and 254 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third minority application and the same amendment 5, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 5. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies... Excuse me, there are questions. Member Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is normal that the case law of the ladies and gentlemen of the judges may be discussed. But this does not change the fact that this discussion, especially after the ruling, is only theoretical because, according to our constitution, such judgments have the universal force. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not the words of the representative of the tireless opposition. Those are the words of sleep. President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. [[Applause]] By judgment of 3 December 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal expressly ruled which persons elected by the Sejm have the legal status of judges. This ruling was published immediately by the Prime Minister. The proposed Article. 5 You wish to introduce three unauthorised persons to the Constitutional Tribunal once again. You know very well that this record is unconstitutional. If you don't want to listen to the opposition and the experts, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't want to respect the Constitutional Court's judgments, listen to reason...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u266	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u267	...and don't destroy President Lech Kaczyński's authority. [[Applause]] [[Sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u268	Thank you, sir. Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! It's a redecisive thing, because it's the only way to call it that. Why are you once again acting in a redecided condition? We have a ruling from the Constitutional Court, which makes it quite clear that the three judges you elected in November... [[But not under the cover of the night.]] ...is simply chosen illegally, contrary to the constitution, that it is not a vow, and the choice means that someone has been or has not been a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. You don't listen to the Venice Commission, you don't listen to the European Commission, you don't listen to anyone. As I hear it, you don't listen to the words of sleep either. President Lech Kaczyński. In redecisive mode, you're still adopting a law that's unconstitutional. This shows two things: that you have no desire to improve, and also that you do it unskillfully, because every time what you do turns out to be contrary to the Constitution and is overthrown by the Constitutional Tribunal. We've got another two laws waiting for the third one we haven't got yet, which is supposed to contain transitional provisions. Stop doing this in redecisive mode, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Start thinking. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u270	But, Commissioner, I'm very sorry, I have to ask you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u271	Question: "Why?"
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u272	Oh, the question is, why? A very interesting question indeed, but I don't understand the relationship at all. I'm not going to ask anyone to answer, because we're going to vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority proposal and the 5th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Three Members abstained in voting 200 against - 227. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 6th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 7. Amendments 16, 24 and 26. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. I would like to inform you that their adoption will result in the futileness of amendments 7, 17, 23 and 25 and minority proposals 4, 8, 11 and 12. The question is raised by Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u273	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You have introduced a provision from the PiS which will result in the creation of the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. I wanted to ask who would be the author of this code of ethics. [[Voice from the room: Mr Piotrowicz.]] There's a lot of candidacy going on here. I wanted to suggest that you consider - this is how you want to teach the ethics of Poles - the candidacy of Mr Pyzik, who with the middle finger showed here what PiS has to say to Poles and what ethics is for PiS. [[Applause]] The draft also does not provide for disciplinary liability of the judge of the Tribunal for the proceedings of the judge before taking office. However, such regulation should be included in the bill, because, of course, it is unimaginable that a judge who is against the dignity of a judge before exercising this mandate... such a judge should be held liable for disciplinary action. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I wanted to ask if the fact that I didn't...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u274	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u275	...in the project has something to do with the legal problems of some PiS officers...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u276	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u277	...who will be reported to the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] [[Sit down, your time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u278	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 6, 16, 24 and 26 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 198 voted against - 230 and 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 4th minority application and the same amendment 7, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 7. These proposals are accompanied by amendments 17, 23 and 25 respectively and minority proposals 8, 11 and 12. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: Rudy!]] [[Mr. Marshal, can you teach some culture to your colleagues?]] Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have long known that the Law and Justice of anyone who disagrees treats him as an enemy or a political opponent. It doesn't matter if they're women, teachers, doctors or self-government. [[Voice from the courtroom: Yet the judges.]] A year ago, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, including those at rest, were thrown into this huge bag of enemies of the PiS state. We also know that in a cynical way you can tighten the screw of any social or professional group. But this isn't the way. If you are in so much pain every day with criticism, it may be worth stopping this roller for a moment and wondering if it isn't your fault. The imposition of a specific muzzle and restrictions on the functioning in the public domain of former judges of the Constitutional Tribunal confirms that you do not have the courage to face reality. When there is no force of argument, the argument of force applies. Criticism hurts, but eliminating its authors [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a mere act of cowardice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u280	Thank you. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday I did not have the opportunity to ask Mr. Piotrowicz this question... [[Oh, that's too bad.]] ...and here's my question. Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 provides for an obligation for the judge of the Tribunal to submit six months before the age of 70 a certificate that he is capable of performing his duties as a judge because of his medical condition and that the failure of the judge to fulfil that obligation shall result in the removal of the judge of office. The provisions in question also state that, after the age of 70, the judge of the Tribunal cannot serve as either the President or the Vice-President of the Tribunal. Question to Mr Piotrowicz: Is such a solution in accordance with the principle of inexorability of the judge and the principle of a nine-year continuous term of office of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal? I hope Mr. Peterovich will answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u282	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 4, 8, 11 and 12 and amendments 7, 17, 23 and 25 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. Four Members abstained in the vote 191 against - 230. I state that the Sejm has rejected the proposals. In the 8th amendment to the article. 11 The applicant shall propose to delete the paragraph. 3 and 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 11 The draft allows judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to obtain profits from holding an adequate number of shares or shares in a commercial law company. However, as it turns out in the following part of the same article, all the profits of the judge of the Tribunal must be passed on to the public for the purposes indicated by him under the threat of losing his office by a judge who will not make such a transfer. Do you believe that this regulation is in line with the constitutional provisions relating to the protection of property rights? It should be stressed that the Constitution of the Republic of Poland indicates two institutions which may lead to deprivation of ownership. These are expropriation - Article. 21 the Constitution, as well as the loss of things - art. 46 constitutions. Neither the institution nor the other institution shall have in the case of Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the draft application, which clearly indicates that the article is incompatible with the Constitution, as it leads to an unjustified deprivation of citizens' property rights. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u284	Please, Mr Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. Is it true that the PiS politicians challenged the Constitutional Tribunal by a law prepared by the Government of the Civic Platform in 2012 granting benefits to parents who care for a disabled child and their amount was to be dependent on disability? The Constitutional Tribunal has given the Members of the PiS the right. And now the question, and at the same time the answer to those who are wondering why the Constitutional Tribunal is at an express rate. That's why I want these non-constitutional things that PiS is pushing through with his knee, e.g. Today's issue is 4,000. Evil, for which you morally want to buy women's souls... [[About!]] ...they weren't just abducted by... [[Get to the point.]] ... The Constitutional Tribunal, because it will not have the power to do so. [[Applause]] [[Oh, dear!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u286	Of course, we're talking about the 8th amendment, which is about deleting the mouth. 3 and 4 in Article 4 11. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 165 votes against - 255, 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th minority application and the same amendment 9, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 13. These include amendments 10, 12 and 28 and the 6th minority proposal. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that amendments be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 11 and 29. The question is raised by Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to that article, the failure of the judge to make a declaration of property is tantamount to the resignation of the judge. Is this a constitutional solution? According to Art. Paragraph 194. 1 term of office of the Judge of the Tribunal lasts 9 years. According to Art. Paragraph 184. 1 of the Constitution, the judges shall be indispensable. According to Art. Paragraph 184. 2 submission of a judge of his own motion contrary to his will may take place only by virtue of a judgment of the court and only in the cases specified in the law. Accordingly, the provisions in question are contrary to the Constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u288	Thank you. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is such a kind of minefield with traps on the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. It has already been said many times that judges have 9 years of individual terms which cannot be violated. The judges of the tribunal shall also be indelible. [[From the function, this is a term.]] You in this bill give a directory of situations where the judge will be deprived of office. This is the case in the case of failure to submit a declaration of economic activity carried out by the judge's spouse, in the case of a declaration of property, in the case of an outrageous case which you propose, namely the need for a 70-year-old judge to submit medical certificates. This juror doctor, according to your will, will decide who is the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is sick. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's time to turn down the bad rules. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u290	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 5 and 6 and amendments 9, 10, 12 and 28 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 165 votes against and 256 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 11th amendment to the article. 15 applicants shall propose that the model forms for the declarations referred to in Article be drawn up. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, are set out in Annexes 1 to 3 to the Act. Amendment 29 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 11 and 29 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 235 votes in favour. Against 189. Four of them stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 13th amendment to the article. 19 applicants propose to add a reference to Article. 40 Supreme Court laws. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 162 voted against - 258, 5 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. Article 22 (2) (b) 2 applicants propose the word "contains' to replace the words "must contain'. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 166 votes against - 252, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th minority proposal and the same 15th amendment to Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The applicants propose that consent to criminal liability and to the deprivation of liberty of the judge of the Tribunal be made by means of a resolution of the General Assembly adopted by a majority of 2/3 of the statutory members of the Tribunal. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When the National Assembly adopts the President's inability to perform his office, 2/3 of the votes of the National Assembly are required. When the Sejm places at the Minister's Court of State, at least 3/5 of the votes of the Sejm are required. We in this amendment propose that the consent to the court of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal requires a qualified majority of votes, not the ordinary majority of the General Assembly of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. That is the point of this amendment to raise this bar, not simply by a simple majority, to refer the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to the courts and withdraw their immunity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u292	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th minority proposal and the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. There were 141 votes against - 262 and 30 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 18th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 26. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 9th minority proposal and the 19th amendment. The question is raised by Elżbieta Stępień, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u293	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The judicial authority is to remain independent - independent from the legislative authority and from the executive authority. The ultimate goal is to protect her from attempts to influence her. According to the amendment, the article. Point 26 (2) of the proposal provides that the President may, at the request of the Prosecutor-General, submit a notice of disciplinary misconduct by a judge. Is this a solution aimed at violating the principle of the independence of the courts and independence of judges in line with the further trampling of the Constitution and the rule of law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u294	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Attorney General is a member of the Council of Ministers, and the President often brings various laws to the Sejm, to the Constitutional Tribunal, asking them to check their constitutionality. It cannot be that the party to proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, which is the government, which in this case represents the Attorney General, or what the President is, may at the same time apply for disciplinary action against the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is a clear violation of the independence and independence of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, an attempt to hang on them a certain threat that the party before the Constitutional Tribunal, which is often the President whether the Government and the Attorney General may request disciplinary action against the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We are asking that we simply reject in this bill the possibility of making this procedure dependent on the government and the President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u296	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 167 votes against - 261, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th minority application and the 19th amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete point 2 of Article. 26. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're proposing in an article. 26 so that the President of the Republic of Poland, the head of state, may submit a notification of a disciplinary offence by a judge of the Tribunal. You are proposing that the President, the head of state, be able to direct a notice of suspicion of this offence with regard to the judges of the tribunal, as well as with regard to the judges of the tribunal at rest. Then when the judges behave unethically, there is an open catalog, when they do not follow the rules and will violate the code of ethics that is not there, which is very interesting, you propose disciplinary penalties, reprimand, reprimand - and this is perhaps the idea of Mr. Marshal Kuchciński... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...reducing a judge's pension at rest of up to 20% for a period of 2 years, when he publicly says what he thinks. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u298	I kindly inform you that this is not my idea. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Marshal 50% would suggest.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority proposal and the 19th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. There were 167 votes against, 262 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the proposals. In the 20th amendment to the article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add the word 'disciplinar' after the expression 'failure'. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Piotr Misilo, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicant - because in Article. 33 the project shall specify the obligations and prohibitions to be complied with by the judge of the tribunal at rest, limiting inter alia. the prohibition of additional employment of judges of the tribunal at rest, in line with the judges of the tribunal - whether the lack of differentiation of individual prohibitions and obligations, depending on whether they concern the judges of the tribunal or the judges of the tribunal at rest, is correct and what is to be served by you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u300	Thank you. [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 168 votes against - 262, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. 30 applicants propose to delete the reference to the Law on the System of General Courts. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Prosecutor Peterovich! I have a question about how you inspire to violate the independence of the courts, the independence of the judges... [[Voice from the room: from the Polish People's Republic.]] ...and I figured it out. In 1962, there was a law that, like this law, imposed muzzles on judges. Interestingly, this law provided for a solution almost identical to that proposed by the PiS. Here at the committee meeting in December 1961 we talked about the same thing you discussed at the committee of justice. The debate in the committee in 1961 aroused the obligation to dismiss judges after the age of 70. That's why I'm asking you directly if you've been drawing from the 1961 law to create this law. Why do you love this eastern model, and why do you need to lift the internal judicial system to the Soviet model? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u302	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 165 votes against - 257, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th minority proposal and the 22nd amendment to Article. 31 The applicant shall propose that paragraph be deleted. Two, seven. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! Many times from this lecture, the question was whether you did not see any incompatibility with the constitution of the provisions in which you propose that this juror be able to shorten the term of office of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. You completely confuse common court judges who are not elected for any term of office, but are appointed by the President of the Republic, with judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, whose term defines the Constitution and speaks of 9 years. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Would the Prime Minister of this place declare that, according to such elementary decency also for her own government, she would have introduced such a principle for her own ministers that they would have to present a medical certificate on the ability to perform a given function? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Boris, even visualally, you're sick.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u304	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with this proposal, the Judge of the Court of Justice at rest shall be liable disciplinaryly to the same extent as the Judge of the Tribunal. There is no reasonable justification for introducing disciplinary liability of a retired judge to the extent that this is provided for in this draft. It should be pointed out that this provision refers to the sphere of the performance of the duties of judge of the Tribunal, a function which the retired judge does not perform at all. Thus, the retired judge will not be able to break the law or behave unethically in connection with his function. Isn't the fact that the judge of the resting tribunal doesn't act as a judge, and in particular doesn't rule on the grounds that he should be held liable for disciplinary action? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u306	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th minority proposal and the 22nd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 392 against - 33, with five abstentions. I state that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. In the 27th amendment to Article. 37 The applicants shall propose that the provision of paragraph 1 shall not apply mutatis mutandis to the judge at rest. Article 3 11. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. You are asking questions from Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club. [[Marcin, come on.]] [[Marcin, let me live.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have agreed, I am talking about the majority here, so that Members of the resting state may profit from the commercial companies in which they have their shares, without having to pass them on to the public. I wanted to ask the rapporteur: "Do you still have this article? 37 are the provisions that a retired judge cannot perform any function - neither in commercial companies, nor in foundations, nor even in cooperatives - even in the audit committee of his own housing cooperative? Do you keep these regulations in this bill? Let me remind you that the reason for this was that the judge could judge in cases that might have affected these cooperatives, foundations, companies. I would like to say that we, here in the Seym and the Senate, have repeatedly voted on laws that may affect foundations, companies, cooperatives in which we then perform various functions, and there is no such prohibition. Why Retired Judges [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are they supposed to be banned? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u308	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 366 against - 44, with 18 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Members of the House have joined the floor. Mr Boris Budka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u309	Thank you very much. I'm still in shock, Mr. Marshal, because with the last vote, you have shown reflection, so there's a chance that you'll listen to reason right now, and yet you'll reject the bill, you won't accept it. There's still a chance. I have a question: What was all this for? Why have you been telling the public for a year that some changes must be made to the Constitutional Court? You've changed the procedure, you've invented the majority, you've invented the blockage, and now suddenly, after a year, you're pulling out of these proposals. Can you from this place, in the name of such elementary decency, admit that the only goal you have set yourselves during this year was really to block the Constitutional Court, and now the only goal you are setting yourself is to elect your President of the Constitutional Tribunal? Are you able to confess, confirm this one elementary fact? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u310	The fact that's going to happen. Mrs Hennig-Kloska, the modern club, is where I have this card.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for Members who have started and continue this whole fight around the Constitutional Tribunal. How would you like to rule the state if you are destroying the foundations of its operation? How are you going to create a law-abiding state if you're trampling on respect for the law? You're pushing three illegally elected judges into the TK, that's another bill, already filled with posts. After all, everyone knows this: lawyers in Poland and abroad, institutions such as the Court or the Venice Commission, citizens. Even you know that, because at the beginning of the debate about the Constitutional Court, you yourself said that two of the five judges were elected illegally. [[Don't scream!]] Twelve months you've been trying to convince citizens that you're fixing something. When are you gonna realize that no one believes that anymore? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u312	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! A project with the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal contains many errors, many interesting constructions. One of them is the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, according to which the judges of the Tribunal are to act, for which violations will be exemplary and severely punished. It's an example of such exemplary punishment, I'm just wondering, and I think it's a good thing you said Polish people and Poles, who will draw up this code and set standards for ethical behaviour of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and when this code will arise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u314	Thank you, sir. Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, a representative of the applicants, would like to speak at the moment. [[Voice from the room: Disaster.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u315	Thank you. [[Voice from the room: He will read.]] Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Many questions would appear to have been asked during the work on this bill and many answers to repeated questions over and over again. I don't know if it's a lack of understanding or an exceptionally bad will. I will start with what one of the opposition Members said at first reading. And he said that the act on the status of judges was essentially a repetition of most of the legislation already in force. And it is difficult with the opposing Member to disagree, because in fact it is. This bill sets out legal regulations for judges of the state... [[Voice from the courtroom: The state of war.]] ... The Constitutional Tribunal, gathering legislation in one piece of legislation. As far as new elements are concerned, there are several. Since the questions concerned these elements, I will refer to this. [[It's okay.]] You question in your questions the disclosure of the statements of property of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. You're asking me what this is supposed to do. Somehow no one asked why the disclosure of Members' property statements, the disclosure of senators' property statements and other important officials should serve. You didn't say then that it was enough that such a statement was made, that the relevant tax offices would examine, check. No. [[Because we're chosen.]] But then we came to the conclusion that it is important that statements be made public. 'Cause how do you expect the IRS to have any doubts? If anyone knows the specifics of the functioning of the tax offices, he knows very well that these offices use information provided by citizens. It's not like it's any secret that this is happening. Why should the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal be excluded from the general rules of transparency and transparency of the most important persons in the State? [[Can we vote?]] Mr Budka asked us to confess... [[Now, you're gonna have to stop.]] ...in the name of the principles of elementary decency, why do we need another bill... [[You have no decency.]] [[Voice from the room: He mentioned his name.]] ...of the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. So I will answer in the name of elementary decency. It is very easy to make a mess, and cleaning is much difficult. [[Voice from the room: Great!]] [[Yes, sacred words.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this mess you made in June and October Ub. Yo, we're cleaning up... [[Lie!]] It's been almost a year. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the hall: Jokes tells.]] Because it's you, ladies and gentlemen, who have to do it again, you broke the constitution. [[Yes, sir.]] You've done it against the law and against the Constitution to cast the Constitutional Tribunal, I'll make it short, with your people. [[And that allowed you to destroy the tribunal?]] After all, even the Constitutional Tribunal stated that. [[Yes, sir.]] If you say that we are spoiling the state, I will refer again to the statement of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal who wrote among themselves in e-mail that they are terrified of what you are doing and said: if the Law and Justice accuse you that you are spoiling the state, then unfortunately the Law and Justice will be right. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today you have the audacity to ask who's ruining your bill, why the next bill? We're cleaning up after you. The fact that you broke the constitution... [[Yes, sir.]] [[Calm down.]] Mr Szczerba, I do not like this language, but I will have to quote because it is clear that he presented the 8-year-old philosophy of the Civic Platform's rule when he said what to screw up. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Go ahead, Comrade District Attorney.]] You keep saying things that aren't true over and over again. [[Some Members chant: Constitution! Constitution!]] And you press these things -- precisely, the constitution -- in the mouth of the Constitutional Court, you press them into the mouth of the Venice Commission, even with effect, saying that the judges elected by you were legally elected. Well, ladies and gentlemen, no. [[Yes.]] And you're saying that the Constitutional Tribunal found that the judges were legally elected. Show me the legal basis for the Constitutional Tribunal's action in this regard. You are deaf to the ruling of the Constitutional Court of January 2016. After all, in its decision, the Constitutional Tribunal expressly stated that it was not competent to examine the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Yes, sir.]] The election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is an autonomous and sovereign decision of the Sejm, and the tribunal also pointed out this. [[Applause]] Since this is the case, the Constitutional Tribunal has waived the assessment and such conclusion in its decision states that it does not have the right to examine the choice of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. And the state is persistently maniac and you repeat that the Constitutional Tribunal has spoken about the legality of the choice. It is at this point that you are discrediting the state, those who are lawyers, as lawyers. Because clearly, all you have to do is look at the constitution, there's talk in the constitution, which maybe the Court... [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] ... Constitutional - it can examine the compatibility of the law with the Constitution, not make an assessment of the choice, my dear country. It is worth remembering once and for all and not repeating the untruths again. There are questions about the code of ethics, but I have answered the question about the code of ethics many times. I've answered many times, but it's obvious you have to repeat it. It's one more time. The Code of Ethics will be an internal act of the Constitutional Tribunal. It will be drawn up and adopted by the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal on the basis of a resolution... [[That's enough, that's enough.]] ... General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is clearly written in the bill which was submitted to the marshal's staff and will be presented tonight. The Code of Ethics will be drawn up and adopted by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. I'd add something to the bill. The Act limits the possibility of hiring a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal outside the Court of Justice. We considered that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal for Polish conditions are very well rewarded. Let me remind you that the gross salary is 20,000. PLN plus service of years - in the case of 20 years it is an additional 4 thousand. zł - plus functional add-ons. Thus, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal earn more than 20,000. zł. We considered that they should focus primarily on what they were called to, and therefore on the handling of cases at the Constitutional Court, and not on the taking up of additional employment with many different employers. However, listening to the voice of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, most of which are probably academic professors, that they need to be in touch with science, we predicted this in the project. Okay, let's get in touch with science, but they'll only be able to work with one employer. Is that so little? I think we're showing a far-reaching gesture in the bill. You're talking about a state of rest. [[You can stop answering.]] I'm answering your questions you've been asking. [[Voice from the room: What language.]] You were asking questions about the state of rest. Why are there certain restrictions for retired judges? Well, I'm very clear about that. [[Something extraordinary.]] The retired Judge shall be paid a salary of 75% the remuneration of an active judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[That's 18,000. zł.]] So we expect that as a retired judge who benefits from certain privileges, benefits from the title, benefits from immunity, benefits from high pay... [[What's that?]] ...and at the same time is identified with the Constitutional Tribunal, behaved in such a way as not to offend the Constitutional Court. [[He doesn't take offense.]] Therefore, the retired judge is obliged to comply with all the rules that apply to the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, including the Code of Ethics. Of course, as you have noticed, we have introduced a certain amendment concerning the transfer of share profits in commercial companies. That's what we gave up. Thus, the limitations that apply to active judges in this respect will not apply to a retired judge. [[Applause]] During the discussion, someone said that these are human rights restrictions, restrictions on civil liberties. Once again, I stress this, and I stress that in favour of the Constitutional Tribunal. In the statement of reasons of the 2001 judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal stated that such restrictions on state officials holding high positions cannot be considered in terms of restrictions on civil rights and freedoms. Someone who chooses to take such a role has a choice: he may become a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal or if he considers it to be a liability to his rights and civil liberties, that judge does not have to be. A retired judge also does not need to be a retired judge if he is cramped in this suit if he does not want to accept these restrictions. [[Change your language.]] He can resign his status as a retired judge and become an active politician. The unfortunate thing is that today the active judges of the Constitutional Tribunal... [[Respectfully.]] ...and, in particular, the President of the Constitutional Court, have become leading politicians and are at odds with the good name of the Constitutional Court. [[Don't talk to me.]] Dear Member States, the Constitutional Tribunal's Statute of Judges sets out the matter, [[Applause]] is in line with the standards set out in the Constitution. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u316	Thank you, sir. Mr Borys Budka submitted a corrigendum. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u317	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am not surprised that the rapporteur did not understand what we were talking about here. [[Applause]] But it is now, Mr President, unfortunately, that you are getting solutions from the right past era, from the Polish People's Republic. As far as your propaganda is concerned, you go a little further back into the past - Europe's darkest past. Your propaganda, Mr Reporter, is that in a bunch of nonsense, lies, half-truths, you use the most simple arguments to first disgust the Constitutional Tribunal, pretend that it is an enemy of an ordinary citizen who would really be an obstacle to your bad change. But in fact, the dispute in this House, which we have been going on since the beginning, is not a dispute about what the Constitutional Tribunal is supposed to look like. This is a dispute over whether a parliamentary majority that has no possibility of amending the constitution because the sovereign wanted you not to be able to change this constitution...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u318	Mr President, you are going beyond correction. [[The Sovereign wanted you to leave.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u319	This argument is based on the fact that you are trying to make a good change in the form of solutions typical of the total state.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u320	Mr President, I repeat: you are going beyond correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u321	Mr Marshal, the Member did not understand what this dispute was about. You've been lying from the very beginning, and you're gonna be lying to the end of this trial with the Constitutional Tribunal. But don't worry, we'll clean it up for you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u322	Please. [[Mr. Marshal, ad vocem.]] Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, representative of the applicants. There you go. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, let him speak no more.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u323	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Because there's been a charge against me... [[Reasonable.]] [[Give it a rest.]] ...as if I didn't understand something, I'd like to refer. We do not share the philosophy presented by the Civic Platform, the philosophy that boils down to the fact that yes, the division of authorities - yes, the balance of authorities - already not necessarily, but above all, the judicial authority and the power of the Constitutional Tribunal should prevail over all authorities. We can't let that happen. We stick closely to the Constitution: the division of authorities and the balance of authorities. And you want to create a superpower from the Constitutional Court, and that's why you can't understand me. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u324	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 920, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 228 voted against - 189, 9 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Health Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. Let's get to third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 960-A. I ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u325	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Two amendments were tabled during the second reading of this bill. One of them is orderly and the other increases the expenditure of the state budget in 2017 for the purchase of vaccines by PLN 20 million, i.e. 14%. [[160 million was supposed to be, not 20 million.]] The Commission recommends adopting both amendments and therefore recommends the adoption of Draft Print Law No 960 together with these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u326	Thank you, sir. We will vote on the amendments first. In the first amendment to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 4 applicants shall propose that those provisions apply to persons who have settled certain obligations at the latest within the time limits set out in those provisions. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 258 voted against - 4 and 154 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 point 1 of the proposal to increase the maximum expenditure of the State budget for the purchase of vaccines for compulsory vaccination in 2017 by PLN 20 million. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. A total of 152 Members abstained from voting 246 against - 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 960, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. Four Members abstained from voting 247 against - 165. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Feed. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 978. The question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to know the position of the Ministry of Agriculture on this issue, because at yesterday's meeting of the Agriculture Committee there was a situation in which the chairman of the Committee of Krzysztof Ardanowski tabled an amendment on the 2 year moratorium... [[The position is known.]] ...instead of Minister Ewa Lech saying that the ministry is still behind a four-year moratorium. So that we would like to know whether in 2 years we will actually be able to secure Poland in feed protein and whether we will finally be free from GMOs. What position does the Ministry of Agriculture have on this matter? Yesterday I didn't get the answer to that question at all. I'm asking for an answer today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[There were answers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u328	Please. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u329	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: What happened in four years? Print No 457 on which this House was voted in 2012 extended the moratorium until 2017. The whole PiS club voted against. After 4 years, print number 734, printed by the government. The members of the Law and Justice will vote in favour. What happened? Mr Szyszko accused the government in 2012 and wrote an open letter to Prime Minister Tusk that the Platform introduces GMOs into Poland through the back door, which is served by the feed law, and Mrs Pawłowicz said: personally I am saying that after the elections it will be a good subject for bringing stakeholders before the Court of State, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which, contrary to social demands, expectations, research brings GMOs into Poland. What happened for four years? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u330	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a miracle in this place yesterday. Well, PiS Members were still four years ago, six years ago, eight years ago, shouting from this speaker that there is no possibility to use in feed, in the feeding of genetically modified soybeans. Those who said it was necessary called traitors. Yesterday, from this speaker, the same Members of the PIS or their colleagues spoke about the need to introduce genetically modified soya and extend its use for a further 4 years. [[That's not true.]] It was a miracle, I answer the honourable Member, but the question is different. The question is: Why do you not believe in your own abilities, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel? He proposed in the government project to submit a 4-year period of moratorium, saying that at that time he would work to become independent of imported soybeans. However, PiS Members, from the same group, tabled an amendment yesterday. They believe in Minister Jurgiel more than he believes in himself because they shorten this period to 2 years. So I have a question for Minister Jurgiel, what is his position in the matter of genetically modified soybean pellets and what is his position on his own abilities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u332	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u333	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on Feed aims to postpone the date of entry into force of the ban on the manufacture, the placing on the market of genetically modified feedingstuffs by 2 years, although the government proposed 4 years. In PiS, reason woke up and this term was reduced to 2 years. The introduction of this ban is, of course, a necessity. Is it true that PiS, being in opposition, screamed that GMO feed should be banned immediately, but when he came to power, he felt that it was not easy? The introduction of a ban today would lead to a drastic decline in the competitiveness of Polish products on the EU market. In this situation, modern is in favour of moving this date by 2 years. At the same time, we are in favour of taking decisive measures to remove feed from the Polish market. We hope these two years are enough for the government. Thank you very much. [[That's enough.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u334	Thank you very much. [[Corrigendum.]] Minister, I'll give you all of your sustainable development, but you can't act as a correction, because that's not an option. [[As a representative of the Law and Justice.]] You may speak in question mode. There you go, Mr Jan Szyszko in question mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I therefore have a question for Mrs Niedziela. Dear Member, not only have I written open letters, but so far I say, without interruption, that for 8 years the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party have consistently made us dependent on genetically modified plants, on genetically modified feeds, also in food production... [[Voice from the room: Nothing bad happens.]] ...through the seed bill, the feed bill. What we have right now is the consequences. [[Applause]] [[Question.]] [[In correction mode, Mr. Marshal.]] [[The question was for Mrs Niedziela.]] [[Voice from the room: There was a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u336	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 978, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 395, against - 15, with 6 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on feedingstuffs. We're back on point... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Madame, I see no reason for you to straighten up. [[He mentioned my name. I can't relate to what he said?]] Madame, allow me to conduct the deliberations. [[Voice from the room: They are important and more important.]] We return to the consideration of item 15. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the law on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and some other laws. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the National Defence Committee for consideration. Here are the questions. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u337	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are voting on the motion to reject the draft law creating territorial defence. In general, we are in favour of developing territorial defence, but not in such a form, not in the form of weakening the defence potential of the Armed Forces. We will not accept the collection of PLN 1.5 billion annually for the creation of territorial defence, for the collection of PLN 1.5 billion from the technical modernisation fund of the Armed Forces. This is unacceptable. Would you like to create an Antoni Macierewicz's private army? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Do you wish to entrust such Armed Forces, the fifth type of Armed Forces to an incalculable, uncontrollable man? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr. President, Antoni Macierewicz is an uncontrollable man, you know that. [[Voices from the O.R.: Get down.]] [[And what's that gonna be?]] You trust Mr Antoni Macierewicz. All of Poland sees that you have a special interest in the Minister, that you have a soft spot for him. [[All of Poland trusts.]] [[Voice from the room: Tragedy.]] [[Come down.]] I'm asking, Minister, what kind of hooks you have on your CEO. [[Paul, shame on you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u338	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u339	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Mirek, I'm watching you.]] Territorial defence is needed, properly trained, equipped, in the command system. However, tasks taking into account its civil character should be placed before territorial defence. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the PiS has distorted this idea. At first, he depreciated territorial defense. The provisions addressed to the High House allow the creation of a private army of Minister Macierewicz excluded from the command system. On the other hand, what the Minister himself says about the tasks of territorial defence proves only one thing, that Minister Macierewicz does not understand what he is or what territorial defence should be. Is it true that the swift process of this law is intended to allow the transfer of funds from technical equipment, from the modernization of the technical equipment of the army [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the sake of personal expenditure of territorial defence, what will not improve Poland's security? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u340	Thank you, sir. Member Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Territorial Defence Army is 35,000 to the end. trained, it seems, people... [[50.]] I think men and women. [[They train within 14 days.]] Now I have a question, because these people for fighting readiness and in 2 days of training a month they will receive more than 500 PLN. Isn't this an attempt to buy new voters? [[Jesus, man.]] I have one more question. The media reports that today in Wroclaw the oath of soldiers has already taken place... [[Exactly.]] ...who are to serve in the Territorial Defence Forces. [[What's wrong with that?]] ...and we haven't decided anything yet, the debate is still going on. [[Homeland security is priceless.]] I have a question about why these people took an oath. [[Love for your country.]] Or is there some kind of fuss reading? Perhaps the Prime Minister should see if [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Ministry of National Defence is not employed as a fortune teller. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u342	Thank you, sir. Ms Anna Maria Siarkowska, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Territorial defence is an inalienable component of the modern Armed Forces, whose connection to the non-military system is decisive - I repeat - decisive in the effectiveness of the national defence system. Now my question is: Is the criticism that is directed towards this project, expressed among others. the fact that there is a motion for rejection of this law, a criticism which is unsubstantiated, which does not refer at all to the provisions of the Act, is really dictated by the concern for the growth of Polish national security and our defence potential? [[Yeah, that's right.]] Or, on the contrary, is it aimed at keeping Poland vulnerable? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u344	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Macierewicz. The question concerns a comprehensive approach to the state security system. Doesn't the Minister think that also in the context of the reform of education that will enter into force, we should not, as the National Movement calls for, introduce military training in secondary schools involving drills and gunfire bases? [[To kindergarten.]] The idea is that the entire young generation of Poles, which is growing up, should be trained at a basic level, at such a level as to be able to use the most popular weapon at a given moment, which is in the Polish army. It is about the Polish society being ready for territorial protection, so that the Polish society as a whole, so that the Polish people are ready to defend the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u346	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 966, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 160 Members voted against - 251 and 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred the proposal to the National Defence Committee for consideration. [[Applause]] We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Public Finances on the resolution of the Senate on the amendment of certain laws laying down the conditions for the conduct of innovative activities. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 point 23 of the Corporate Income Tax Act The Senate proposes a revision of the editorial and legislative legislation. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The absolute majority is 207. 17 Members voted against - 394, two Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Point 3 (9) of the Act on the Rules for the exercise of the powers of the Senate Treasury proposes that this provision also apply to scientific purposes. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. The absolute majority is 205. The vote was 2 against - 407, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 15 Act amending the Senate in the added paragraph. 2 proposes a transitional provision. The committees are asking for an amendment. The question is raised by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u347	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! However, in this one case, could you not be more ambitious with the option in this law? [[I'm sure.]] Modern is in favour of these amendments and we are also in the direction behind this law, although it is too late and too weak. We're very sorry. However, it is rightly called a small law, because you can have small ambitions, low goals and, unfortunately, poor results. We can see it. So I appeal to the government: have a greater desire to create the best possible right for entrepreneurs, for people who want to invest in our country, to create new, well-paid jobs, new, innovative and revolutionary products and services worldwide. Be brave. Be groundbreaking. Or go away. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u348	Thank you, sir. Actually, it wasn't a question. [[A statement.]] [[An appeal.]] [[But an appeal that needs to be accepted with understanding.]] We therefore proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. 1 Member voted against - 418. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Road Transport Act. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Article 7a (7) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Point 6 and paragraph 3. 6 of the Senate law proposes among others. change of reference. It is accompanied by amendments. Two, four, six and seven. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2, 4, 6 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The absolute majority is 208. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 7d paragraph. 3 The Senate proposes to add a point setting out the obligation, when assessing the good repute, to consult the carrier association. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The absolute majority is 208. 138 voted against - 276, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 82i paragraph. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 82j paragraph. The 6th Senate Law proposes legislative and editorial change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. Point 9 (1) of the Law amending the Senate proposes that Article. Point 14 of the Amending Act entered into force on 30 November 2017. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The absolute majority is 209. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax and the Act on corporate income tax. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. Questions are raised by Members. Member Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u349	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Not long ago, during your election campaign, you made a promise to increase the amount of free money, repeating the same thing during your exposé, saying that the amount free would be 8,000. Whereas Poles receive a free American from the tax state instead of a free amount. I want you to be aware, Prime Minister, that this project of the PiS Members is pinning a new brooch... [[It's not my business.]] ...the brooch of the great profession of the poorest taxpayers, because you are breaking your electoral promises, which tended to make the amount free in Poland more than 8,000. zł. Unfortunately, she won't be here. It stays at an embarrassingly low level, which is embarrassing to this House, because an increase in the amount of free money is not a favor for taxpayers, it is a duty and it is a duty mainly incumbent on the State. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u350	Mr Isabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Requestor! Mr Tulaev! Can you honestly answer the question here in the Polish Sejm if the Act on personal income tax comes in the form that you propose, i.e. That you didn't raise the tax-free amount, which must mean that you lied, saying that you would raise the tax-free amount to 8,000. zł and that you will do it in the first 100 days. Mr President, I would like you to answer this question. I would like to point out that I am not asking about the amount free during the global financial crisis, I am not asking how much free amount was at the time when the Civic Platform led Poland out of the excessive deficit procedure after this crisis, I am asking what amount free is offered to Poles Law and Justice in 2017, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the year of economic prosperity. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u352	Member Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 3 hours ago, the applicants, Members of the Law and Justice, said that they gave us the right to provide an amount free of 3 000. zł. On behalf of Poles, I thank you for such kindness and for keeping this amount at the level of 3,000. Evil, and you didn't lower it because I understand that's what this was supposed to lead to. It is a disgrace to maintain this level, but you know it. Why don't you tell us that we're going to get 60% tax. And we're gonna have to thank you guys for that, 'cause there could always be 80%. [[A month.]] This bill gives rise to a relatively higher tax rate, because in a year's time, this $3,000. Evil will be worth less. That's what you're assuming in the budget bill - 1.5%. inflation up. We are in favour of rejecting this disgraceful bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If she goes to committee, then...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u354	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u355	...we will make an amendment to increase the amount of free money to 6.5 thousand. zł. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u356	Mr Sylvester Tułaev, representative of the applicants, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The adoption of this law is necessary, mainly because of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which on 28 October 2015 - 28 October, therefore 3 days after the elections won by Law and Justice - stated that Article. 27 of this law is unconstitutional. Interestingly enough, why has the Constitutional Tribunal not noticed this problem for eight years? [[Exactly.]] I would like to point out that the adoption of this law is necessary - necessary. We must not allow taxpayers to be deprived of the right to deduct tax by the amount guaranteed by the current rules. [[I want you to answer my questions.]] It is therefore necessary to provide Poles with the principle of legal certainty for constitutional taxpayers. [[But you don't give any more.]] I would also like to point out that, as Law and Justice, we are making a number of changes, we are introducing social programmes... [[Please answer the questions.]] ...which aim to restore dignity to Poles, starting with the 500+ programme, through a minimum salary of 2 000. zł... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Quiet!]] ...through a minimum pension of 1 000. zł, through free medicines for seniors, through the program It's all been done for 11 months. [[What about the amount free?]] We know that not everything can be introduced immediately, because certain issues... [[Really?]] ...they were very late. Today's the day they scream the most... [[Answer.]] ...who haven't done anything in the last few years, haven't done anything about it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[It's a lie.]] Well, they didn't do much because for eight years the tax-free amount has increased by 2 zlotys. [[Applause]] Today, the ones who didn't do anything or didn't do much are screaming the most. [[How much did it grow?]] The promise of Law and Justice is still valid and we will implement it. We will implement it because work is currently underway on the reform of the tax system in the area of uniform tax, which is planned to implement this announcement by the Prime Minister, announcing an increase in the tax-free amount to 8 000, whose entry into force is planned from 1 January 2018. I'll say it again: the ones who didn't do anything are the ones who scream the most. Our promise, the promise of law and justice, is valid. We're gonna make it happen. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u358	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No. 969, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. 176 voted against 226 and 2 abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred the proposal to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Penal Code Act (Print No 878) - continuation. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. The question is raised by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u359	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The debate on this draft Penal Code is taking place at an interesting moment, because today the UN Human Rights Committee has announced a report on Poland. This report is critical in many places - it is critical, among others. regarding the invisible response of the authorities to hate crimes and hatred, including hate speech. Hence my question: Will the bill that the Modern brings in favour of hate crimes, reducing man to one thing, causing pain to people, victims who can't defend themselves... Will these victims be better protected by the state? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u360	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[I already know the answer, thank you very much.]] I don't understand. You know the answer, right? Very good. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Modern project which is so-called. The speech of hatred is really a project which under Polish law is supposed to instill ideas from cultural Marxism. Cultural Marxism is an idea of globalists to implement a globalist utopia, a world without nationality, without national cultures, without national identity, religious identity, and even without gender identity. [[Applause]] Yes, it's being attacked by cultural Marxists. And it has to be said that what is proven to be a language of hatred is, first of all, a hard stand with this identity, whether it's national or religious or even sexual. It becomes xenophobia, fascism, it becomes religious fanaticism, it becomes sexism in the hands of those who want to use it. Therefore, I strongly appeal that the Sejm of the Republic reject the Marxist Modern Project. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u362	Thank you. The representative of the applicants, Ms Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, will speak at the moment. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, this afternoon, the UN Human Rights Committee will announce another report on Poland. We look forward to it. I would also like to remind you, perhaps you do not know that insufficient criminal protection of victims of discrimination has been brought to Poland's attention by other international bodies: the Committee Against Tortures, the European Committee on Human Rights precisely, the European Commission Against Racism and Intolerance and the European Committee on Children's Rights. [[What torture? Torture of your speeches?]] That was the answer to Mrs. Monica Rosa's question. Ladies and gentlemen, today is quite a significant day because we started this debate on the so-called. a life law during which you had a mouth full of clichés about the protection of people with disabilities, people with disabilities. You said this was important to you. The rapporteur of this law said that people with disabilities should be treated in a special and unique way. And at the end of this debate, we have a law that talks about discrimination against people with disabilities. I wonder how you'll vote. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] prejudice against people with disabilities is very high in Poland. Research by both the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Polish Association for People with Mental Disabilities shows that violence is experienced as much as 92% persons with disabilities. What else does this research indicate? That's 69%. of which are victims of physical violence, 60% people who have been studied said that they are victims of physical violence, more than half - 52% she experienced the so-called. Personal freedom violations and 37% admitted that he was experiencing economic violence. This is actually very funny, ladies and gentlemen. I'll say it again. At the beginning of this vote, you said that people with disabilities should be treated in a unique way. In Poland, in our country people with disabilities are discriminated against and this change to the Code That's what he's talking about. And it is amazing that you will vote against. I'll answer Mr. Winnick. Mr President, I still feel irrefutable that both you and the Members of the Law and Justice have not read this law at all, this amendment, and it was just one piece of paper. I understand that the justification had 30 pages and maybe somebody didn't get to the end of that justification, but there was one page of amendment of the laws on people who are discriminated against in our country... [[And the rest of the propaganda.]] ...because of gender, disability, age or gender identity. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, as I said a week ago, is not just a modern law. Under this law 70 non-governmental organisations in Poland, organizations representing the sovereign of our country, signed. This law should be passed beyond divisions, as it does not only apply to modern Members, but also to Members of Law and Justice, the Civic Platform, Kukiz or independent Members. [[And the PSL, too?]] Speech of hatred and hat is something we should fight over divisions. And the amazing thing is that you're so light-handed that you want to show that it doesn't touch you. The amazing thing is that you don't remember what happened a few years ago on October 19th in Łódź. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It's really amazing. And I'll repeat it for the third and last time. At the beginning of this vote, with your mouth full of clichés, you talked about protecting people with disabilities, and at the end of this vote you show what hypocrisy is in you because you are going to vote against people with disabilities. This is the Law and Justice, it's a party of hypocrites and a party of ridiculous decisions. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u364	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you respect other people and institutions and speak carefully about them. [[To the ethics committee, 5,000.]] [[Voice from the room: To the ethics committee. Hate speech.]] At the moment, the Minister of Justice, Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! An example of hate speech has just been the speech of a modern Member, [[Applause]] What's the word... [[Bravo!]] ...discovers the true hypocrisy that directs those who make such legislative proposals. [[Yes, sir.]] Poland is a country of freedom. Poland is also a country which guarantees different groups, different environments, regardless of their beliefs and views, freedom to express their opinions, to manifest their beliefs. And this also applies to the LGBT environments, the homosexual environments that you are so desperate for from the Modern Member, often concealing your intentions by referring to people with disabilities, which is also wrong. Well, dear country, in the Penal Code, Poland guarantees effective protection against various forms of assault, aggression, providing for different provisions in the special section of the Penal Code, which sanction the conduct that violates human dignity, which constitute an insult. The Polish Penal Procedure and the Polish Penal Code also ensure that such circumstances are taken into account in terms of the dimension of the penalty as an element of the evaluation of the event which is the subject of the court's assessment. But the Polish criminal procedure and the Polish Penal Code should never become an instrument of ideological warfare. They should never become an instrument of this, [[Applause]] what we see in some Western countries, where practice exposes the intentions of those environments to which you refer and the Modern one. This practice comes down to the fact that e.g. Spanish clergymen, hierarchs, four Spanish bishops are sued before Spanish courts because they refer to the Bible, which can be read in the letter of St. Paul, who talks about Christian morality, about the principles of faith that shaped the civilization of our continent by 2,000. Years. [[Applause]] You want to condemn it, you want to cut it out, cut it out with such scissors of hatred and criminal law, state violence those values of European culture that were shaped, which grew out of 2,000. years of Christian civilization. [[That's not true.]] Well, we say no. Poland under the rule of Law and Justice, Solidarna Polski, United Right will reduce freedom in Europe, [[Applause]] We will defend freedom. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[That's not in the bill.]] We will defend the freedom of LGBT environments to express their views, manifest them, what they do in their environments, clubs, sometimes even on demonstrations and parades, in brochures, writings. No one forbids them, and they're not after them. But we will defend all those who have a different point of view, who differently assess the values and the rations that they have on the banners of the environment that you defend. We will defend the Christian values, we will defend the Christian culture of Europe, [[Applause]] We will not allow the use of the tools of criminal law to brutally pursue Poles with the help of the state. Lady in her ideology, if he lived St. Paul, too, would have put him in jail for five years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Objection.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u366	Ladies and gentlemen, I see it's starting to... [[Mr Joann Scheuring-Wielgus: Mr Marshal, correction.]] ...to use correction and formal conclusions to conduct further discussions, so I reject any conclusions. [[We're voting.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 878, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 379 Members voted. Four Members abstained in favour of 248 votes against - 127. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Mr Joan Scheuring-Wielgus: Mr Marshal, since when can the applicant not speak?]] We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 980). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No. 980, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 358 Members voted. The vote was 347 against - 3 with 8 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I ask the Secretary to read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u367	I kindly inform you that a meeting of the Infrastructure Committee will be held today immediately after the end of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u368	Thank you very much. Mr Liroy-March has come forward. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a statement. Yesterday in Kielce at 3 p.m. 14 entered my parliamentary office two men aged 25, 30 who claimed to be police officers. They didn't show I.D., they didn't show any evidence that they were police, they didn't introduce themselves, they didn't exchange their degree. The men described above said they wanted information as to whether the Kukiz party is organizing a trip to 11. When asked why the police needed such knowledge, they replied that they were asking in all the parliamentary offices, because Warsaw ordered it. In view of the revealed events, I call on Minister Mariusz Błaszczak to answer: Did the police carry out these activities at the request of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration? If not, who gave the order? [[What do you mean, they weren't cops?]] Was it with the knowledge and consent of the Marshal of the Sejm that Members' offices were invaded at the Polish Parliament? [[Voice from the room: They weren't cops.]] They were because they went into other offices as well. I stress that we are dealing with violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, persecutions against legitimate political entities and legal, patriotic manifestations. [[But they weren't cops.]] I demand firm consequences for the guilty. I do not rule out a motion of distrust against the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u370	Mr President, I draw your attention. You said you wanted to make a formal request for the current session of the Sejm. [[The voice from the courtroom: No, Mr. Marshal.]] A formal request may be made for the current meeting of the Sejm. In the future, do not use such requests to make a statement... [[Was it related to the composition of the Sejm Committees?]] ...which should be formulated in a different mode. [[Maybe they're genderers.]] I'm ordering a two-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 28 hours 15 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I would like to ask Andrzej Matusiewicz, and then Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz, from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u371	Thank you very much, Marshal. A question for Minister Zieliński. Minister, first the general question. The question is whether adequate resources are secured for the operation of the police authorities in the 2017 budget, namely for the new Police District Commands, for renovations, but also whether the funds are secured to increase the remuneration of police officers and increase the remuneration of police personnel. The specific question concerns the Podkarpackie voivodship: Will new police commands be built in 2017 in Lesk and Jasła and will police police stations continue to be restored? I mean the district of Bieszczadzki, and in particular the border municipalities, where these police stations have been liquidated and there are police stations, there are two police officers, and often these are summer villages. For example, in Komańcza commune there are 6 thousand sanocki district. tourists during the summer season and safety issues are not adequately secured with this cast - two police officers within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u372	Please respond to Minister Jarosław Zieliński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, the Committee on Public Finances considered the draft budget for 2017 in parts that concern the Ministry of Interior and Administration and the services subordinate to the Ministry of Interior and Administration. So these figures designed in the next year's budget are known and the opinion of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, the opinion of the Committee on Public Finance is positive. The legislative process has not yet been completed, so of course the wording of this law and those provisions concerning what is in these parts, because there are several of them, is not yet decided, but as to what it looks like in the government proposal, everyone already knows. These are the measures that are prepared in such a way that they are intended to meet the most basic, elementary needs of the services subordinate to the MMSWiA. However, in order for these services to be able to carry out their tasks effectively, they must continue to be modernised, and they must be modernised. The first modernisation programme was, as I am sure you remember, certainly remembered, introduced in 2007 under the leadership of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. In addition to these measures, which are foreseen in the following years, in the budget laws for the following years, it provided for PLN 6301 million of additional funds and had the expected results, although not to the extent that this could have happened, because the implementation of this modernisation programme took place mostly not in our governments, but in the governments of the PO-PSL coalition. There were various reservations about how it was implemented. The Supreme Audit Chamber also expressed various reservations, doubts and comments. When the programme was over - he was later extended for two consecutive years, it was originally a programme for 2007 and 2009 and then extended until 2011, the measures foreseen for its implementation were reduced - everyone considered, not only Law and Justice, because we were the originator of this programme to renew, so everyone felt that it was necessary. Years passed and such a program was not created until the end of the PO-PSL coalition. We have written this idea, which is the idea of a new program for modernising uniformed services, in the Law and Justice programme. And this project is being implemented right now. The government has adopted a draft law which establishes a new programme for the modernisation of uniformed services for the years 2017 to 2020 i.e. a four-year programme. In short, it concerns three areas. The first area is investments and renovations, the second area - the purchase of the necessary equipment, equipment, weapons, means of transport, means of communication, i.e. all those tools that the services need to perform their tasks well and effectively. And the third element is the salary increases provided for in two tranches: one from 1 January 2017, of PLN 250.253 depending on whether we are talking about officers or civil servants, on a full-time basis, and a second increase, in 2019. Together it will be over 600 PLN per job. It's a significant increase, and I'd like to remind you of that. As far as the precise distribution of these expenses is concerned, we will be able to talk about it when the Modernization Act is passed by the Sejm. That will happen, I hope, soon after the government project was sent to the Sejm. This process at government level is already complete. As far as construction investments are concerned, it was included in the question originally submitted to the government, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and they will concern many buildings. Here was a question about the police. I could give you numbers, but I'm probably running out of time. As regards the implementation of police facilities, it is assumed that in 2017 there will be around 60, 83 such facilities are planned in 2018, in 2019 - 84, in 2020 - 72, for a total amount of PLN 1150 million. These investment figures do not mean that they will be new investments, but they will also continue. That has to be taken into account. It's not like every time there's gonna be so much new, but it's a significant amount. Which investments will be carried out, sir, and the construction of which facilities will be undertaken? This is a matter of taking specific decisions after the modernisation programme has been adopted. If this programme had not been there, there would, of course, have been some investments, but there would have been fewer, and their scope would have been much smaller. These additional funds will allow for a wider investment front. The same is true of means of transport. Purchases of both air transport, helicopters for the police and passenger cars, marked, unmarked, are foreseen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] cars to move in the terrain difficult to access. Also as far as other elements are concerned, as I said, the purchase of weapons, special technology is envisaged. There are appropriate types of purchases provided for in this programme and...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u374	Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I'm almost done, Marshal, in this part, I just want to close a certain line of thought. The amounts are provided for, while what we are going to buy depends on what will be the final shape of this law and the final shape of the state budget in those parts we are talking about for 2017 and subsequent years. As far as the other things are concerned... Minister, you'll still have time for an additional question. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I'll allow myself to use this extra time after an additional question, which is probably still going to go down. Thank you very much. Thank you. I would like to ask you an additional question by Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u375	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would just like to clarify the issue of purchasing equipment for officers. A lot of cops report a problem like that. Many times in the media we had doubts about the validity of the actions taken by the officers. They were accused of exceeding their rights and even, even in extreme cases, of physical aggression in the course of their actions, detention. In this situation, do you not consider the Minister to be reasonable - and are such purchases planned - to equip the officers with monitoring tools that they will be able to record interventions so that the collected material does not leave any doubt in the course of judicial proceedings, if this is the case, about the intention of the detained and the actions of the officers? Doesn't the Minister think that this issue requires some comprehensive solutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u376	Thank you. Please respond to Minister Jarosław Zieliński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u377	I would like to say right away, Madam President, that any such case which raises doubts is very carefully examined, clarified and if the allegations that arise are justified, then severe consequences are being drawn. But we also do not give in to such whispers as to judge officers without examination. It is expected that we will condemn them and punish them, which is often found in the media. It often happens that people who do not know the case, but have only heard about it - some media message, often one-sided or even very biased - expect action, and we always approach it with caution, because we assume that officers act in accordance with the law and within the limits of the law. But we're investigating exactly every questionable case, and if that's not the case, it's an unambiguous reaction. Of course, these devices, which you mention, can facilitate the assessment of this type of situation. They are used, they are also being tested for 2 years at the moment, but also recorded various events. It's not that this trial doesn't have a place, but to spread it, to equip the officers, because you ask, I assume, individual officers or police patrols with such devices... Of course, this is in the field of attention, this is anticipated in terms of the possibilities that the modernisation programme will create. I'm sure the more opportunities there are, the easier it will be to monitor, supervise and evaluate. I still want to reply to the Member - before I did not make it - because he asked about police stations, he also spoke about police stations. Police stations are consistently reproduced where they are needed, where police data and social need indicate such needs. There was a consultation, which we talked about many times, at the beginning of this year. They also continue now, to a large extent they have been taken over by the police of the district. It takes time, but where there is a need, the stations are being played back and this process will continue with the full consequence. I would like to remind you that the PO-PSL coalition has eliminated more than half of the stations in Poland, with 817 remaining only 399 after years of government of PO-PSL. We've already re-created about 30 precincts, and another one will be re-enacted. This process is going on, it's going to take a long time, because there are no objects everywhere. It often happens that these objects that served the precincts, after their liquidation, were destined for other purposes, now there is nowhere to put these posts. We also provide for the possibility of building posts for stations under the modernisation programme. We're assuming the precinct should be operating 24 hours a day. Of course, that doesn't mean that police officers, in this number of jobs that are granted, are to sit in this building 24 hours a day, but supported by forces from the county headquarters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] should cover their work, their activities, the area designated for the post 24 hours a day. Only then do the precincts make sense. But the precinct and the precinct are two different things. The precinct is a larger unit, has more jobs, has a slightly different task. You'd have to say a little bit more about it here if there was time. Well, basically, it's just... I'm finishing up, Marshal, so you won't be alarmed that I'm prolonging again. We believe that the police must be close to people and close to people, and close to people also means close territorially. We can't leave the entire large areas of the country unattended by police. The police from a remote district command, before it arrives, are unable to react like the one that is close, and has a better understanding of the environment and the dangers that occur in a given place. So we will certainly carry out what has been announced in the Law and Justice Programme: police close to people and for people, the role of the neighborhoods is very important, a national map of security threats that already exists throughout the country, and police stations in areas where they are needed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u378	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, our discussions are being listened to by young people from the Łańcut commune - winners of the competition for knowledge about the Sejm. Welcome and congratulations. [[Applause]] The next question was prepared by Waldemar Andzel, Dariusz Starzycki and Zbigniew Chmielowiec from Law and Justice on amendments to the Fire Protection Act. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. I ask Mr Dariusz Starzycki to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u379	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to address the Minister at the request of his fellow volunteer firefighters who, on the basis of their daily experience, have proposed to amend the Fire Protection Act of 24 August 1991. Chapter 5 of the Fire Protection Act talks about the powers of firefighters of fire protection units and members of voluntary firefighters. A large part concerns compensation, pensions or compensation for health or other damage that a volunteer firefighter may suffer as a result of participation in rescue or exercise activities. However, the Act does not take into account that the role of voluntary firefighters is not limited solely to direct rescue operations and exercises. In the event that all units of the State Fire Department go to a large fire-fighting operation, for the so-called. the operational security of the district shall be equivalent to the voluntary fire department, which shall be on standby to take action in the event of a local incident. Volunteer firefighters are then in action, but these are not direct rescue operations. In such circumstances, members of the TSO shall be deprived of part of the allowances, e.g. Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Union, and in particular Article 21 thereof. In the light of the above, we propose that the Fire Protection Act include the wording of the new article in Chapter 5 as follows: The presence of members of voluntary fire services in readiness to take immediate rescue action at the request of the State Fire Department or the municipality should be treated as rescue operations. I therefore ask the Minister, "Is the Ministry planning to take legislative action in this area or to implement work on other provisions in the Act which will allow for the treatment of being ready to take immediate action at the place and time indicated by the State Fire Department or the municipality on an equal footing with rescue operations, the effect of which [[♪ The bell ♪]] will grant certain powers to CSR members? One way of financing could be to agree to the payment of a special-purpose reserve for the performance of its own crisis management tasks, which is created in the framework of a budgetary resolution in each municipality each year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u380	Thank you. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! There is a difficulty in such a conversation, because it is difficult for us to write a bill in such a way or amend it. There is a proposal for a provision, and now we are to address it in a very urgent, rapid manner and to say whether it is possible, it should be done or not. So if you'll excuse me, my answer will be a little more general, not so specific, because it really requires analysis. But let's start over. To remind you of what we all know, but maybe it's worth noticing: Volunteer firefighters, which fulfil a very important role in fire protection in Poland, in the rescue and fire protection system, are associations. Associations in Poland work very much. These are also associations that operate among other associations. This fact is worth considering, because sometimes there are postulates that concern this association, and other associations can also ask for it, so this context is also important - of course not in the sense that we are talking about today, but for example. When it comes to the question of an allowance to a pension, such contexts arise. The fact that these are associations means that they are independent entities that are voluntary, also as regards the activity of people who implement their need to participate in such organisations. The Fire Protection Act of 24 August 1991 confers different types of powers on TSOs. These are in particular the cash equivalent for participation in rescue operations or fire training organised by the State Fire Department or the municipality and the monetary compensation where a member of the voluntary fire department in connection with participation in rescue operations or exercises has suffered injury to his health as a result of an accident. It shall be granted where a member of the TSO has not retained the right to remuneration or has not received sickness or rehabilitation benefits under separate rules during the period of incapacity for work. On the other hand, where he has received such benefits, but less than compensation, he shall be entitled to compensation up to the amount of compensation. In addition, voluntary firefighters also have other powers. They are related to the damage suffered by the firefighter in connection with participation in rescue operations or exercises. They may include one-off compensation in the event of permanent or long-term injury, a pension for total or partial incapacity for work and damage to property. The legislator in this law also secured members of the firefighter's family who died in connection with their participation in rescue operations, granting members of his family the opportunity to obtain one-off compensation for the death of a volunteer firefighter, a survivor's pension or compensation for damage to property. All these powers relate primarily to participation in rescue operations. It follows from the above that the provisions in force sought to protect as comprehensively as possible the members of the voluntary fire brigade. The necessary legislative intervention area was considered to be the situation in which both financial and health damage was incurred by a volunteer firefighter, but precisely in connection with rescue operations. Appreciating the merits of the associations, such as voluntary firefighters, for the local community and their participation in ensuring security in the area concerned, the proposal to introduce the provision of the Article. 28a to the Fire Protection Act, which consists in qualifying as rescue operations to remain ready for voluntary firefighters to take immediate rescue action at the request of the State Fire Department or the municipality, has been subjected, as far as possible in a short period of time, to a preliminary analysis, especially by the Chief of the State Fire Service. As a result of this preliminary analysis, it was concluded that it was worth considering this issue, but rather in the context of other possible solutions that could concern members of the voluntary fire department. It is not possible, however, to adopt the proposed solution in the proposed form because of its too broad and indeterminate nature. Payment entitlement e.g. the equivalent or other benefits associated with participation in rescue operations with a broad provision of the proposal for the wording of the Article. 28a, in the absence of a definition of being ready, defining what it is to be ready, would allow too many situations - too many and not defined - to be qualified as rescue operations. The financial costs of implementing such a solution, which cannot be estimated at present because it is not defined, could prove to be too high and, according to the proposal, the current way of financing the units of TSOs would remain unchanged, so an increase in the costs associated with their maintenance would significantly burden the municipality. Therefore, it will now be monitored, monitored by the management of the MMSWiA at the State Fire Department's Headquarters, and work will be carried out on a proposal for possible amendments to the Fire Protection Act in the area of this issue, namely the powers of members of voluntary fire services. Following a deeper analysis, after considering this, after the presentation of the project, of course, it will be possible to get acquainted with this project if it were to be addressed to the Parliament's work before this stage, i.e. after its publication in the framework of the government legislative process, and to participate in shaping its content also by the environment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the most interested, i.e. voluntary firefighters, with whom we have excellent contacts and we have a permanent dialogue, by submitting possible comments and proposals in the course of a public consultation. But all of this requires a very deep thought, Mr President, and in advance I say that in this form, as proposed, this is difficult to accept.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u382	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Waldemar Andzel from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The solutions we discuss are very important for the whole community of voluntary firefighters. If there is no change in the wording that we have proposed, there is certainly a need to discuss and consider other legal solutions that need to be introduced in order to fill a clear gap in the legislation. This will certainly contribute to the good development of voluntary firefighters, since it is possible to consider introducing indirect rules between the treatment of CSR members in readiness to take immediate rescue action at the call of the State Fire Service or the municipality and direct participation in rescue operations. Such a solution will certainly also be satisfactory for the whole community of voluntary firefighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u384	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u385	Let me repeat once again, Mr High Izbo, that I have declared my willingness to think very deeply and work together on this. I will also remind you that, and I want to repeat this clearly once again, voluntary firefighters fulfil an extremely important role in Poland, and this is in general the great value we have. They need to be taken care of. Let me remind you again, because maybe I didn't say this today that in this programme of modernization of uniformed services, as announced in the Law and Justice programme, this time we also provided some possibility of financial support for voluntary firefighters. This is a separate thread that is worth discussing. We have changed the way of financial support for the TSOs this year, and this will continue next year, and it will be preserved. There are a whole range of forms of support and assistance for CSR units, and from the national rescue and fire escape system, and from outside this system, and here the direction of our government in action will not change. This will be the direction of continuous support for TSOs and the integration of these units, as deep as possible, into actions, first to prepare, then to actions, within the framework of the emergency and fire protection systems. In Poland, it is not possible to imagine fire safety and rescue system without CSR today. The State Fire Department alone couldn't handle it because it's too small a structure - about 32,000. Officers, and volunteer firefighters are a few hundred thousand. This is a very big, important force, extremely helpful. However, let us also bear in mind what I mentioned at the beginning of my first speech, in response to the Members' questions, that this is, however, a voluntary service, a voluntary service. It is different in the case of professional service. Firefighter, if he's on duty, leaving for action or standing by, is on duty, that's his job. On the other hand, the question of what this would look like in the case of volunteer firefighters is open and this is difficult to define. But, I repeat, we declare our readiness to talk about it. I invite you to make more precise proposals, because then it will be easier to talk about it. But this record, once again, is so general that I can't declare that we're going to accept it, because the costs would be too big, and I think it would be a non-functional one actually. I can't imagine how it would be possible to predict these kind of benefits for readiness, how to define them, and how to account for them as well. That's a huge problem. But I think that with good will, if we define this problem as real and hindering the performance of tasks by the TSOs, as part of the financial capacity - because this is also something we need to remember and consider that the municipalities will pay for it, and we cannot impose more expenditure on the municipalities without agreement, without consultation - we can think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u386	Thank you. The next question was prepared by Grzegorz Matusiak, Grzegorz Janik, Czesław Sobierajski and Teresa Glenc from Law and Justice on the situation in the Krupiński Coal Mine. Question for the Minister of Energy. I ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u387	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and PSL Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa was on the verge of collapse. KWK Krupiński is part of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. The Ministry of Energy took on a difficult role - the role of saving mining, including Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. KWK Krupiński's crew is already awaiting a decision on what to do with the operation of this mine. I have a question: Does the Ministry hold talks and consultations with the social side? At what stage are the arrangements for the operation of this mine in the structures of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u388	Thank you. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy by Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u389	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for asking this question, because we are indeed at the stage of final consultations, which are already wider this time, not only with the social side. But I will talk about them a little later, while as regards issues relating to KWK Krupiński's plan of operation in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, I would like to first say and signal that the implementation of the restructuring programme of the Jastrzębska Group of Coal has required and still requires many decisions, and these are difficult decisions. This was the case with the sale of shares of the Power Company Jastrzębie SA, the coking assets of Wałbrzyskie Zakłady Koxownicze Victoria, the sale of production assets of the Jas-Mos movement, as regards the transfer of them to the Company for the Restructuring of Mine, as well as plans for the Krupiński mine, in respect of which after an in-depth analysis and after arrangements with the social side during the summer months we considered that this mine as an asset ceased to be an entity, a mine which supported the entire restructuring process, as well as the process which is taking place in relation to Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. The purpose of the management, the owner, the Ministry, is to operate and to improve the efficiency of the operation of the company today. The main reason for the decision by the general meeting, because these have already been initially taken after consultation with the social side... And let me just say that six meetings took place with the Ministry of Energy, one meeting of the Ministry of Energy and the Management Board of Jastrzębska Węglowa Company and seven meetings of the Management Board with the social side. These meetings took place from 17 March until 30 September. Recently, on 24 October, a meeting took place at the Voivodship Council of Social Dialogue. In the Voivodeship Council of Social Dialogue, the Minister appointed another team to assess the functioning of the Krupiński mine not only in the context of the Jastrzębski company - although also - but also as a mine which in fact takes energy deposits. This deposit ends, and the coking coal deposit is so difficult to access and is connected with such large economic inputs and calculations that at this stage, and also in the future, it seems very questionable. The decision must be taken by 29 November, because then we finally resolve issues related to the recapitalisation of the Jastrzębska company, it is about the amount of PLN 300 million of bonds which is intended to affect the account of the Jastrzębska company. Then we have already signed a restructuring agreement, and consequently we have some decisions that the bondholders have imposed on Jastrzębska Węglowa. Then we have a public offer for the sale of shares, so there is the issue of moving SPO, i.e. strengthening the Jastrzębska company by another 500 million PLN. And let me just say that this whole process... Already today 1300 million are involved in the process of rescuing Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. And today we can see that among others. bondholders, as well as the stock exchange, which shows that these decisions concerning investment of Jastrzębska Węglowa Company, the construction of Jastrzębska Węglowa Company on the basis of coke coal, i.e. investment in coal, which is more price-oriented than energy coal, as well as decisions made on the fact that Krupiński Mine, which for the last 10 years has been a mine that has brought almost 1 billion losses throughout the period, being in the structures of Jastrzębska Węglowa Company, exactly 971 million... And today we have such a situation that in conversations with the social side we have established that we will draw up walls that are armed and then we will try to develop this mine in such a way that in these areas there will be a logistics centre of Jastrzębska Węglowa Company, i.e. the town of Suszec, where the mine is located, would have an establishment, an entity that would pay taxes. We also want to continue using methane in this mine. So we're going to use methane to extract it for heat use. In this case, PGNiG Termika acquired the heating company Sej, i.e. the Energy Company Jastrzębie SA, in order to further exploit the value of this mine and to make effective use of what can be used from Krupinski. I would also like to stress very strongly that the restructuring process is running smoothly today, but we still face huge challenges, as among others. positive results that have emerged by reducing costs, by planning investments, inter alia. the transfer of JAS-MOS to the Company for Restructuring of Mines, through the involvement of assets that have been sold, including entities that I mentioned earlier, has led us to have a completely different reception today when it comes to counterparties, but this process could not have taken place if the social side had not decided to suspend certain financial issues due to employees, such as the 14th anniversary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] or parts of barbershops. It seems that the attitude and social side, and us, the ministry, and the board, as well as the whole environment of financial institutions, the bondholders show that the direction chosen is really appropriate, because it has made us shift the debt by 2025. And it would be good if we could maintain this trend because we are on the right track, although, as I say, at the beginning of building a strong coal company based on coke coal. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u390	Thank you, Minister. I ask Mr Grzegorz Janik from the Law and Justice Club to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u391	Minister! It was supposed to be an additional question about mining and it was going to be about mining. But, Minister, I'm sure you know today's article in one of the national journals on the front page. I'm surprised that's what the papers say about things like that. I think these are things that aren't true. I would like the Minister - I am sure you know this article - to refer to this article. It always seemed to me that it was necessary to put real information on the front pages, even in the press, and on the front page it was already at all. I think the title next door is real: Hillary Clinton can't sleep well. Well, you know, three days until the election. But to what they say about the new PGG, Minister, I'd like you to refer to it because I think it's false information. I'd like you to comment on that. Actually, I don't know if there's anything to comment on, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u392	Thank you. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy by Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u393	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that it is indeed worth referring to this article, because it is Friday, which is not an accident. We know that Friday's outlays are bigger when it comes to journals. And this is an article on the front page of today's Rzeczpospolita Group concerning Polish Mining Group. First, I will read the statement which has already been made officially, and to address the Rzeczpospolita Management Board of the Polish Mining Group, because it will highlight this issue, as well as the facts which are completely different, differ from what is reported to us today by Rzeczpospolita. Statement by the Polish Mining Group on the publication in Rzeczpospolita. In connection with the publication in the Republic of Poland of 4 November this year. The Polish Górnicza Group declares that the information contained in the text regarding the planned loss of PGG at the end of the year is incorrect. In the business plan, the loss at the end of this year is assumed - and this is what we did not hide - but not at such a high altitude - I said it, I will remind you, 2 weeks ago, and so that someone does not remember my statement from 2 weeks ago - as the Rzeczpospolita informs. The company informed the editorial office in a special statement - today an appropriate letter is sent to the editorial office asking me to print what I read. The Polish Górnicza Group is currently in a deep restructuring phase, which is a continuous process. In July this year. complex mines have been built in place of 11 existing plants, which has allowed management and administrative jobs to be reduced, the use of mine infrastructure and the efficient use of deposits. The Polish Górnicza Group systematically improves basic technical and economic parameters - I will give you right away. There has been an increase in daily coal production and an increase in productivity at the same time as a decline in employment. In the fourth quarter of this year. the company obtains significantly higher sales prices than in the first months of operation. During the autumn-winter season, the Polish Górnicza Group significantly increased its sales volume of coal, which is due not only to the heating season, but also to the intensive development of sales policy for both individual and corporate customers. At the same time, the company regulates all financial liabilities vis-à-vis both employees and counterparties. This is the official position presented by the board, and I will add this: increased the level of daily production from 82 thousand. To 97,000. t, then reduced the cash cost of coal production for the planned period by PLN 332.5 million, increased the average coal sales price from PLN 209 per tonne in May to PLN 238 per tonne in October, i.e. by 13.9% more, i.e. 29 zł per 1 t. Activating trade activities through the formulation of a new commercial offer, intensive business meetings directly [[♪ The bell ♪]] in customers from the energy, heating and industrial sectors. We're pulling out the brokers. We're using a new system. I would also like to say that the employment rate has been reduced by 821 people. Here's what I'm gonna say. The question arises, Mr. Marshal, if I may finish, who cares? Because it is not accidental that false information about repair processes in Polish mining is provided to the public. This is not the first such publication. To whom and what should this serve? I will ask more specifically: Who wants the repair process of Polish mining to fail? I think it's a good thing that one opposition group, one parliamentary club, canceled the press conference on the case. I think they're gonna learn the right lesson from what might have been a setup. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u394	Thank you very much. Andrzej Halicki, Jan Grabiec and Arkadiusz Myrch from the Civic Platform prepared another question about the declared intervention against blocked accounts and events on Facebook.com. The question is addressed to the Minister of Digitization. I would ask you to ask Mr Andrzej Halicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, I would prefer to talk about other issues, because these are very important tasks that we face, our society, but this issue also arouses emotions and is not trivial, for example. because today we have a report of the UN human rights, which is precisely the speech of hatred and the phenomenon of a certain tolerance or lack of response to the speech of hatred, clearly emphasized as a task for the state, a task for the authorities. Moreover, these reports, both the UN and the Council of Europe, similarly adopted two years ago, impose some monitoring on our country in this respect. I am talking about this in the context of the questions I wanted to ask in a very simple way. Why the government, I hope, not the Minister himself, took the side of the haters, on the side of those who break the rules, in this case Facebook. Because if they're setting up an account, they're gonna have to sign it. Above all, the administrator points out that by using hate speech, they should actually face the public reaction of the authorities, in any case they should be branded. Please don't answer that this is about the Independence March because it's not about the Independence March. It's about very different phenomena. What has to do with Polish independence, our pride, identity and social community - I am talking about a very specific case - the desire to burn Jews and blacks? I don't want to use these examples anymore. It seems to me that the reaction, which has no legal basis, today would in fact resemble the intervention of the Minister of Transport towards Polish drivers, who in the UK would persistently like to move right-hand traffic. It is known that Facebook is American, that it has its regulations, and in this case, unfortunately, I think that if such an intervention were to take place - I ask and ask [[♪ The bell ♪]] the answer to the question whether it has happened - it may be that we would like to build an ideological country with censorship going in that direction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u396	I would like to ask you to respond to the Minister of Digitization, Ms Anna Streżyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a typical question to put up a thesis that has nothing to do with the minister of digitalization, but it's supposed to sound in this room. I didn't say I'd intervene anywhere. Let's start with that. I just said we were talking. That's the truth. Therefore, I knew the question that was asked to the ministry. I will neither point out the legal basis nor determine the position of the Minister of Digitisation on Facebook blockades, nor give the date or content of the agreement that could be concluded on this matter because we are talking. Surely the worst thing is to do nothing if the situation has been, say, a crisis for a long time. We talk, we meditate, we don't intervene. Left and right accounts are blocked at the initiative of users. There's just a war going on on on Facebook. Wars on the Internet are going on everywhere and I'm not going to join the war. On the other hand, it must be remembered that there are no regulations, neither Polish nor global, which would precisely affect this issue and that both blocking profiles and interference of power in the operation of the website always raises the same emotions and doubts - both types of actions. We must therefore bear in mind that such intervention opens a dangerous gate if it goes beyond violations of the law and beyond the competent authorities, and the Minister for Digitalisation is not entitled to regulate either the content or the activities of Internet services. However, these discussions are to answer the question of whether and to what extent Facebook is entitled to regulate user activity, how to fit between the principle of freedom of expression, the prohibition of preventive censorship of mass media, which arises from our constitution, and the requirements to protect users from inappropriate content and behaviour, all the more so if the assessment of content and behaviour is carried out in a subjective manner, because people do it rather than machines. The contents and behaviour are also very strongly conditioned locally. We've been discussing this with Facebook for a long time now on Facebook's initiative. We'll talk. It is also necessary to remember that although it is a private medium, which I have often also emphasized in my statements, it is subject to law, among others. Antitrust, but it is primarily subject to contract law, because the rules that we sign are a contract and both parties can break this agreement and both have claims. It is certainly assessed in the light of the principle that restricting freedom of speech, whether it is a word from the right hand, whether it is a word from the left or any other word at all, must be an absolutely justified and exceptional exception. In addition, we have contracted as Facebook users the services we expect to provide, because we entrust our image to this platform, entrust our personal data to it and expect it to comply with this part of the rules in which it determines what it provides for us. These rules are the same worldwide, and the compliance of users' activities with the rules is assessed on the basis of subjective assessments of the assessment team, which, of course, is controlled by the team of such metaguls, which are used by this team. We are not only talking about compatibility, we are talking about blocking Facebook, we are also talking about applying the Polish and European right to such extraterritorial services. We are discussing whether there is even a law that we can apply, and whether it is a typical mass media, about the rules that are followed by a team located outside Poland blocking these profiles, the possibilities of appeal, the rules of unlocking a blocked account, the storage of personal data obtained, e.g. I.D. data, copies of I.D., rules for removing your own account and on many other issues. On the subject of reporting and blocking alone, I have a meeting on November 24 with a Facebook representative, an expert on Europe's social policies from Dublin, i.e. the person responsible for these activities, to know in detail how these social standards and Facebook reporting are going. We are constantly in contact with the Polish part of Facebook, which does not make any decisions about blocking, but in terms of giving me explanations, has a full mandate of its Dublin authorities and has been cooperating in these discussions for a long time. These conversations lasted before my term, just these topics are [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's still very up-to-date. That's the last information, then. I also took note of the Facebook position in the It seems to me that the conversations I conducted and the formula of the conversation and explanations I adopted have produced the right results.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u398	Thank you. I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Andrzej Halicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u399	Thank you very much for this information, but they are not exhausting, so to speak, my anxiety. I wanted to make it clear that I am aware that the Minister is also aware. Moreover, in the Digitisation Council, this topic has appeared many times and it is not trivial. I think that in this case, the representatives of the various sides of the political scene should act together, eliminating the speech of hatred in practice, but above all, giving the green light to activities in this area to other institutions, other bodies, including the authorities of the state. The problem is, I don't know if the Minister read Mr. Richard Allen's open letter. If he is the person to come to Poland in November, Mr Richard Allen, who was responsible for this policy, complained in him about the chicanes that met Mrs. Sylvia de Weydenthal, the one who was identified as director, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as the administrator of the Polish part of Facebook, which is not true. These attacks were followed by public information that government intervention in the interests of those who were blocked would take place. I'm saying there are some implications that can't be underestimated because it's daring to spread hate speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u400	Thank you, sir. Please, Minister Anna Streżyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u401	First of all, what happened to the head of Polish Facebook has a much longer beard. Many days earlier, the campaign was critical of this person. I don't think a calm narrative from the Minister of Digitization is contributing to this in any way. We have to remember the art. 54 constitutions, which say that everyone has the freedom to express their views, but other laws determine where the limits of this freedom are, while preventive censorship in mass media is prohibited. To respond to hate speech and other illegal activities, there are proper services. The minister of digitalization is certainly not such a service, but also Facebook is not such a service. That's why you have to remember... [[He's got his own rules.]] ...that what happens on Facebook is subjected to a very subjective assessment of people all the time. Someone's rights may be affected by both a specific statement and a refusal to express a specific statement violates very strictly defined law in the Constitution. [[And the open letter, the Minister, did you read it?]] Yes, I have read an open letter, and I believe that this is a response to our proposal to engage in such talks against the background of a specific crisis, which has been defined here, caused. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u402	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question was prepared by Members Stanisław Lamczyk and Zbigniew Konwiński from the Civic Platform on the situation on the drug market, the state of implementation of the programme on free medicines for seniors. The question is to the Minister of Health. I ask Mr Stanisław Lamczyk to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u403	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! In 2015, 75+ seniors in Poland lived 3 million, which was 22% population. In 2050 it will be about 40%. These people in 2015 bought medicines for PLN 4.3 billion, of which their own money - for 2.6 billion and 1.7 billion was refunded by the National Health Fund. The 75+ programme was intended to help with this issue, which is why seniors who are unable to buy medicines - and there are about 19% of them. - they were supposed to use this program. The list of medications was presented by the Minister of Health. The Minister of Health assured that it would cover more than 80% of patients over 75 years of age. It was supposed to include medications that had been given to patients for 30% of their pay. This list was accepted by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification. As we know, this list isn't exactly perfect. First of all, there were a lot of misunderstandings, because anyone over the age of 75 thought he had medicines for free, and that's not so, because the medications were assigned to individual diseases. And so there's only one cure on the list for painkillers, Naproxen, which, as we know, is bad for the digestive system. There's a lot of medicine. [[♪ The bell ♪]] An old generation. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: How can this list be implemented so that it serves the 75+ seniors?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u404	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Krzysztof Łanda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! List S, a list of medicines that are available free of charge to seniors, as announced by the Minister of Health, responds to the needs of the elderly. This list strongly relieves the elderly in terms of drug subsidies. This list includes mainly medicines that have already been - and are further - on lists of medicines refunded with a fee of 30% And 50%. The most important medicines, which have been positively assessed by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification, have been included in the list of medicines for seniors. The project seems to be a big success. Firstly, the draft list was consulted with all stakeholders: doctors, pharmacists, but also, most importantly, seniors themselves. The entry into force of this list was preceded by a number of meetings with the environments concerned, including the pharmaceutical industry. There's been a flyer, poster action. The information was sent to doctors, as well as journalists were instructed and informed about the details of the operation of the entire project. The project is now being implemented without any major problems or protests. Any comments are far smaller than for comparable programmes carried out in previous years. As far as the facts are concerned, in the framework of the grant from the state budget in the first month, i.e. in September, the cost of this list amounted to over 25 million PLN, almost 26 million PLN. If the projection is identical in terms of the sale of these medicines, we should spend 103 million by the end of the year, so this will definitely allow expenditure to be maintained as part of the budgetary discipline. Let me remind you that this year we were to spend a maximum of PLN 125 million. There were, of course, safeguards if these expenses were higher. We see that they are lower, and it is therefore proposed to extend the range of these medicines. Moreover, as announced in the coming months, the consumption of S-list drugs by seniors will be observed, and in line with the S-list funds - which next year will be much higher, because they will amount to more than PLN 560 million - we will, of course, expand this range. So far, over 2,700 thousand senior citizens have been released in September. packaging. The number of eligible persons who used these drugs in September is almost 27 000. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it has also been possible to ensure the availability of medicines on the market for other groups of consumers, for patients other than seniors, i.e. that the industry has ensured an adequate supply of medicines that have been included on the list S. And this increased consumption, which you also mentioned, has been addressed absolutely by the increased production capacity of the pharmaceutical industry, so that these medicines are available both as part of the medicines for seniors and list S, as well as for other groups of customers, outside the list S. In fact, according to our data, there were over 17% seniors over the age of 75 who did not carry out prescriptions for medicines refunded for financial reasons. We can see that the intake of these drugs has increased, so definitely a large group of seniors, who could not afford drugs before, took advantage of this program. I am certainly pleased to note that. As to the question of which medicines are available free of charge, there are clear criteria set out in the Act which medicines will be given to seniors free of charge. Let us remember that list S is made up of medicines that are already on the list of medicines refunded, i.e. the most important medicines for health care, to ensure and preserve the health of the population and individuals. Therefore, these are medicines that have already been selected as the most important, most effective, most needed. Among them, in addition, according to the criteria of Law 75+, which I had the pleasure to conduct, were selected the most important preparations for seniors. I just wanted to say one more thing, that I personally do not participate in the creation of the S-list, which means I do not participate in the inclusion of any preparation on this list, but I must definitely say as the person responsible for the drug policy department that this programme seems to be a huge success and strongly respond to the needs of seniors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u406	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u407	Thank you very much. Minister, the apothecaries have noticed that more and more new health clinics are being created that aren't going to treat patients, they're just starting to trade drugs. Does the Ministry have an idea to counter this? Because only the ministry has any options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, yes, and I am already informing you what two statutory amendments will allow us to fight against illegal law absolutely effectively, I stress: illegal, export of medicines refunded from Poland. Of course, we do not want medicines refunded, those that are important from the point of view of the health of society, to be exported from Poland and to be lacking in pharmacies that we actually note. This has been slightly reduced under the previous government and is under control as regards the legal export of refunded medicines. Illegal exports are actually booming. Here we need to prepare two solutions. The first solution, which is absolutely most important, is implemented within the framework of the so-called. a draft law on rescue access to drug technologies. There is a record that will allow us to identify drugs that are at risk and are being illegally exported from Poland. We will be able to raise these drugs to a separate group of limits for financial and economic reasons. This will allow us to raise the price of the official drug chosen, but in such a way that the expenditure of the fund remains constant. Thus, the effective price paid by the NFZ will remain unchanged, the co-payment of the patient, if any, will remain unchanged, whereas the official price will be higher, and the difference between the official price and the effective price of the pharmaceutical company will be refunded as part of the use of the so-called. the risk-sharing instrument. The approximation of official prices in Poland and abroad of the refunded drug will immediately make it completely unattractive to export it from Poland. But besides, we're planning a change... Oh, this law on rescue access to drug technologies is after internal, external consultation, after a consensus conference. They continue today and will take place on Monday - hopefully the last - agreements with the Ministry of Finance. The bill will, I think, proceed as a matter of urgency. On the other hand, we hope that at the end of the year the work within the Ministry will be completed on the so-called. Pharmaceutical law, which is a major amendment to pharmaceutical law. I will mention only a few proposals that will enable us to act better and more effectively with regard to the control of both wholesalers and pharmacies, as well as those dishonest healthcare providers, often fictional healthcare providers, through which these medicines go out. Well, we are planning a verticalization of the GIF, i.e. the chief pharmaceutical inspector will have full control over the structure of the voivodship pharmaceutical inspectors. Today, the WIFs are subject to two offices: some voivodeships, some GIFs. In my opinion, this needs to be changed. We will propose this as well as other proposals, such as: how to allow pharmaceutical inspection access to tax documents, because we know that invoices differ in wholesalers and in tax offices, the ban on joining... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I need another 15 seconds if I can. ...forbidding the merger under one NIP of medicinal activities and drug trafficking, increasing the powers of the main pharmaceutical inspection, i.e. mandates during inspections, excluding the possibility to object during inspections, the possibility of obtaining police assistance, the right to enter the premises adjacent to the wholesaler, the possibility of searching closed lockers, criminal liability for making false statements during inspections, financial sanctions for not submitting documents during inspection. These are, of course, proposals for inter-ministerial, internal and then external and parliamentary discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u409	Thank you very much. The next question was prepared by Mr Sitarski and Mr Brynkus from the Kukiz club15 on the construction of a multi-purpose tank on the river Bierawka at the point of completion of the extraction of the Sand Mine. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. I ask Mr Sitarski to ask a question. I'm sorry, sir, unfortunately there is no government representative, so that if you could just... [[How about a 10-minute break?]] No, I'd appreciate it if you could wait a minute. We'll go to the next question and wait for the government representative. I'm sorry. [[Good.]] Please, another question prepared by Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer and Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski on the cost and purpose of connecting the Museum of the Second World War with the Westerplatte Museum and the National Audiovisual Institute with the National Film Library. The question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. I ask Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask what is the purpose of joining the institutions: the Museum of World War II and the Museum of Westerplatte. We know a lot about that. Yesterday we discussed this when discussing the budget allocated to these institutions. I would like to ask if, in connection with the merger of the Museum of the Second World War and the Museum of Westerplatte, you are planning a change in the position of director of the Museum, whether it will be someone new, or whether it will continue to be Professor Paweł Machcewicz. As far as the National Audiovisual Institute and the National Film Library are concerned, I would like to ask what is the purpose of combining these two institutions. These are institutions that have a huge tradition, i.e. one of them: National Film Library. The National Audiovisual Institute, as you all know, has very interesting experiences, is well run by Michał Merczyński, with huge successes, in a new form and with a new paradigm in general creating archives of our culture, our national monuments, if you can say so. My question about these connections is as follows. Are these ideological conditions? Or is it another one? I see in this, above all, a political act which is deprived, in my opinion, of a deeper substance and social sense. In short, I would like to be sure that you are taking care of what is within the broadly understood area of national culture.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u411	Thank you. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the Museum of the Second World War and the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War, with a view to ensuring increased efficiency in supporting and disseminating national and national traditions, including the 1939 Defensive War, the proper honoring of the symbolic place of the Westerplatte battlefield, ensuring the optimal exploitation of the potential of institutions with a similar profile of activity located in both cases in Gdańsk, while rationalising the spending of funds from the state budget, and the rational supervision of both museums for which the Minister of Culture and National Heritage is the organizer, the Minister of Culture made public on 15 April this year. Notice on the intentions and causes of the merger of state cultural institutions: the World War II Museum and the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War Museum. The act on the merger of cultural institutions was not issued shortly after the expiry of the statutory requirement 3 months after the announcement of its intention to carry out this procedure, as it continued to analyse all aspects of the intended process, including financial and organisational aspects. Therefore, it was only on 7 September 2016 that two decrees were issued by the Minister of Culture on the merger of state cultural institutions: the Second War Museum and the Westerplatte Museum, and on the appointment of a representative of the Minister of Culture for. carry out the merger operations. The institution was to be merged with the Minister of Culture on 1 December 2016. Prof. Zbigniew Wawer, director of the Polish Army Museum, was to be appointed as the Plenipotentiary of the Minister of Culture under the appropriate authority. After consulting the proxy and responding to requests or requests from the director of the World War II Museum concerning the extension of the time limit for the merger of the facilities, so that it was possible to complete the construction of the museum and to complete the work on the organisation of the exhibition, the Minister decided to postpone the date of the merger of the museum of the Second War with the Westerplatte Museum by 2 months, i.e. on 1 February 2017, because this was the request of the director of the Museum of World War II. In this context, the deadline for drawing up the balance sheets and the transmission and demand protocols of the combined institutions has also changed, currently as at 31 January 2017. In short, in answer to specific questions, on 1 February next year will be the decision of the Minister of Culture regarding the management of the combined museums. I have an extensive memo on what actions have been entrusted to a proxy, which is quite extensive. There was a question about costs and these extensive actions written out on seven points justify the costs, but I will not present it in detail, I will only inform you that the actions of the representative will cost during these few months PLN 234 839 to prepare this documentation well, which with the effort to build the Museum of the Second World War reaching almost PLN 0.5 billion, exactly PLN 450 million, and less than PLN 2 million for the activities of the Museum Westerplatte seems to be not a very high amount, so that this documentation can simply be drawn up well. On the other hand, we expect the combination of these museums of savings, because we will save on the cost of renting and using the media by the museum Westerplatte, because it will be a subsidiary of the Museum of World War II. Savings will also result from the verification of the financial and accounting services of both museums. After the merger, the number of executives will also decrease. In the first year after the merger of museums savings can be estimated at about PLN 0.5 million. The cast of the new seat of the museum in Gdańsk, 121 persons, is also to be verified by the director of the World War II Museum in Gdańsk. Savings are expected and in this respect. The Ministry's intentions are similar to those reported so far for the maintenance and running of the museum after the opening. To date, they have only been evaluated by the Museum's management for increasing employment to over 7800 thousand. zł. This amount will, of course, be reviewed, all the more so as the Museum Director has informed the Minister in recent days of the impossibility of using 1,200 thousand. PLN from the museum awarded for the current year of the subjective grant. On the other hand, answering the second question, about the merger of the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute. According to the Minister of Culture's announcement of 15 July this year. on the intention and reasons for the merger of these two national cultural institutions, the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute, the purpose of combining these institutions is to ensure greater efficiency in securing and making available the national audiovisual heritage, with particular emphasis in the case of the National Film Library of the collection, and in the case of the National Audiovisual Institute the potential of knowledge and technology. It is worth to combine these institutions, because NInA has one of the most modern digitization apparatus in Poland, and the National Film Library in turn has wonderful collections which should be subject to this digitization. As of today, the costs of activities connected with the merger of state cultural institutions: The National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute in 2016 were planned at the level of 30 thousand. zł. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u413	Thank you very much. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u414	I'd like to ask you a question. Minister, please answer the question: Do you have an idea for the person who will lead the joint institution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u415	You're welcome, Minister Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u416	As in the case of the Museum of the Second World War and the Museum of Westerplatte, the Minister of Culture will have the right to indicate at the time of the merger of the two institutions who will be the head of this joint institution. Then you'll know who it's gonna be. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u417	Thank you very much. Another question was prepared by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Polish People's Party. Question on the planned reduction of the grant per environmental member of the home self-help in 2017 The question is addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Development and Finance. I ask you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u418	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, In view of the need for adequate protection of persons with mental disabilities, the Social Assistance Act of 5 August 2015 states that the rate that the subsidy in 2017 will be increased by 30% of the income criterion, while in 2018 by a further 20%. And that's in the Social Services Act. However, the Around Budget Act does not currently include such measures, which is a great surprise to all those who work for environmental self-help homes. This is only a small part of these protests - those about which information to us, to the club of the Polish People's Party, reached. I am surprised, and I do not believe that you, in relation to those declarations that were made here before noon in terms of helping people with disabilities, want to reduce the funding next year. This is really incomprehensible to me. It is good that the Minister of Finance will answer, because Minister Michałkiewicz asked for our intervention and assistance in these matters with the Minister of Finance. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether you are aware of the consequences for these institutions for these people. There is already a lack of funding for aid through these centres, while the reduction of funding will result in further negative [[♪ The bell ♪]] consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u419	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance by Mrs Hanna Majszczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! As regards intervention by the Minister of Finance, it is without object, because the law in this respect is governed by the law and the law determines the level of funding. Today, the High House voted on the Around Budget Act, according to which the deadline for increasing the level of co-financing, the degree to cover the costs of participation in support centres for people with mental disorders, the increase in these thresholds was postponed by one year. These solutions were adopted with regard to the draft law, in agreement with the Minister of the Family. I would like to point out that the amendments that were introduced in the Social Assistance Act of August 2015 have indeed raised the level of this funding for the participant of the support centres. Indeed, this level is at least 200% of the criterion of social assistance for a single economy person and this is the level of 2016. Since 2017, this was to be 230%, and in 2018 to 250% of this criterion from social assistance. But if we reach into the bill that was prepared and introduced by the High House in 2015, if we look at the justification for this law, we need to consider this as a matter of fact, without abstracting what level of funding the High House and Parliament wanted to achieve at that time. I think that, aside from all the interventions and questions that concern this level of funding, there is the fact that we are dealing with tasks in the field of government administration, and how is this possible? they must be financed, it is also the Public Finance Act, which sets out what mechanisms should be taken into account when determining the level of funding for such tasks. And the Public Finance Act explicitly states that the level of this funding is taken into account in budgetary units when carrying out tasks of similar importance or scope. I hope and I am convinced that the High House, when updating the Social Assistance Act in 2015, was based on these criteria and in 2016 it wanted to achieve the level of funding - taking into account all these conditions, I believe - at the level of PLN 1084 per participant in the support centre for people with mental disorders. In the 2016 budget, however, the level of funding was set at 1246 PLN, which is almost 200 PLN more than the 2015 amending law. I will just note that this is the level already in 2016, which from the justification to the 2015 novel was only expected in 2017 and has been applied since the beginning of this year. There is more than what was supposed to happen, which is why it is difficult with such facts and this way of financing to say that some funding is being received. They are simply left altogether at the expected level that the legislator assumed for 2017, adopting a novel in 2015. This will be the level from 2016, but de facto expected by the legislator in 2017, as justified by the new Social Assistance Act. Of course, this is a solution which is included in the around budget law, which involves the implementation of the project or the design of the budget for 2017, and in principle, if it were 230%, it would be above the expected level which resulted from the novel and would cost an additional 130 million PLN. Of course, there were also issues of prioritization of the spending directions which, when implementing the budget, have to implement the law of the Finance Act on both the stabilisation of expenditure and the deficit of the sector, and therefore such decisions have been taken, bearing in mind also, and perhaps above all, that the 2017 level has already been entered in the budget since 1 January 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u421	Thank you, Minister. I ask Mr Kasprzak to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u422	Thank you, Minister. There are two things going on here. First of all, you disprove, Minister, the argument presented here today in the morning discussion that nothing has been done for the previous coalition because the budget prepared by that coalition is being implemented. You confirm that the expenditure was even greater than the statutory provisions, so you can remember that and you can take note of it. But I wonder why there are so many protests from the interested parties, because these protests continue to flow. As I say, this is a small part of what I took from our club, because no one other than Minister Michałkiewicz proposed that this would be the level of funding last year when the Social Assistance Act was being prepared. My intervention comes from the fact that Minister Michalkiewicz [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, he has asked the opposition to intervene in any case concerning social assistance for people with disabilities, and I therefore allow myself to take the floor on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u423	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u424	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! The question is, why so many interventions. The answer is certainly simple. At a time when 230% was recorded in the Act, the expectations of larger funds in centres of this type are, of course, always justified and raise hopes. Surely there are also many ideas or needs that are certainly difficult to refuse to be rational. Nevertheless, as far as I'm concerned... And perhaps also justifications, because, as I recall, there was also a parliamentary project in 2015, so perhaps the content of the justification was not taken into account by writing all these interventions, but I find it difficult to relate to it. I think that, above all, as in many other cases - especially with such sensitive centres, because this must be remembered - the need and expectation of even greater funding exist and probably from here are these interventions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u425	Don't you think the Minister could have gone on a faster path to 250% of the basic amount?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u426	Mr. Speaker! As I have pointed out, there are a number of needs and the 2017 law assumes huge social expenditure, including spending on the most important reform in the area, so-called. 500+, where this amount is over PLN 23 billion. There are also a number of other expenses. Please note that the law contains raised, and much more, family expenses, much more social assistance expenditure. There are increased expenditure on the financing of case law in powiats and a number of others, which I may not mention at the moment. But this causes, as I mentioned in the earlier part of my reply, that taking into account also the fact that when constructing the budget for 2017, it was designed so that all the rules resulting from both the Public Finance Act and the Commission's requirements for not exceeding the 3% deficit were respected. GDP, of course, is rationality... it required a certain priority for spending, to shape it so that these thresholds are not exceeded, and therefore the around-budget law for the purposes of achieving the objectives I mentioned requires certain priorities, including, as it were, the retention of the increases that were originally foreseen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u427	Thank you, Minister. The next question was prepared by Mr Sitarski and Mr Brynkus from the Kukiz club15 on the construction of a multi-purpose tank on the river Bierawka at the point of completion of the extraction of the Sand Mine. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. I ask Mr Sitarski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u428	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to bring up a subject that is postponed exactly the same as the opportunity to ask a question on this issue today. It's about the design, the concept of building a boiler room in the Racibor Forests, a concept that has existed for more than 10 years. In this place, for 40 years, sand deposits have been exploited, there has been a depression lowering the state and level of groundwater at the Racibor Forests, and unfortunately for many years, despite the patience of local authorities, whom I warmly greet, who have come here and wait patiently for this to be moved, nothing is happening. The area is rehabilitated in 70%, the investment requires 40, up to 50 million PLN, to create a tank with an area of almost 1 000 PLN. ha. This will definitely raise the level of groundwater, prevent part of the fire risk at the place where the 20-year-old forest was created. We remember fires from 24 years ago in the woods of the Forge of Raciborska, it was practically a disaster when it comes to the green lungs of Silesia, which must be fought for. And now the question is: What about the environmental decision on the proposed investment? Can we count on the renewal of the environmental decision? She was five years old, she fell, but is there any way to get back to this concept? The construction of the tank The boiler room has been in existence for many years. There's an opportunity to raise this topic. Is the tank a boiler room [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be included in the water management plan? Will this concept also be included in the national flood risk management plan? It should be added that, in addition to fire-fighting purposes, the tank will also be able to serve as a flood protection function and be a retention vessel. That's the other thing. And the third case, he will definitely increase the value of the area due to the recreational function he would perform at the interface between the Silesian and Opole voivodship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u429	Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Sławomir Mazurka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Local Government! 40 million m3 water tank, of which 24 million flood reserves, is to be located along the right-hand tributary of the river Odra, which is the river Bierawka. The location of the tank is planned on the site of the sand mine's sand mine. The land of the sand mine in the spatial planning plan was designed for the construction of a water reservoir. It is necessary to take over the land by pow. 900 ha, including 554 ha, remains in use of the eternal Sand Mine, while 348 ha remains on the board of the State Forests of Raciborskie. In connection with the extraction of aggregates, a remediation decision was issued which imposed an obligation on the mine after the end of operation to rehabilitate in the water direction. The future reservoir would perform the functions of improving water relations in this area, and we know what the state of the forest fire protection is now, and history has also taught us that in this area such protection should be provided, as well as a recreational function. The anti-flooding significance is precisely the nature of the water catchment area of the river Bierawka. According to existing legislation, the mine should separate the fund on which funds should be collected for the financing of remediation. The mine is private capital, too. The investment, the construction of the flood tank of the basin on the river notified by the sand mine is on the list of projects which may result in the failure to achieve good water status or deterioration of water status, for which a derogation from the Water Law should be considered. The list is a document annexed to the Regulation of the Council of Ministers on river basin management plans. Why? Because as if there are not all the decisions that have expired, and that is why it is on this list, but we see this and see the need for this action. Between 2008 and 2010, documentation was prepared, including the construction and implementation project, the necessary administrative decisions were obtained, the construction project financed the mine, while the RZGW in Gliwice obtained all relevant administrative decisions. All the documentation has been submitted to the mine, some of the administrative decisions and permits issued due to the passage of time should be re- Earned, e.g. decision on environmental conditions and consent to the implementation of the investment. In view of the above, the appropriateness of implementing this investment from the point of view of flood protection must be confirmed by analyses within the framework of the ongoing update cycle of flood risk management plans. This significant impact on the reduction of flood risk will be taken into account in the update of river basin management plans and in the update of flood risk management plans. The investment will be recommended for implementation during the planning period, of course after carrying out this analytical process. The planned order of action of the investor is to regulate land ownership for the investment with the State Forests and Regional Water Management Board, re-acquire environmental decisions, consent to the implementation of the project, obtaining permission to build by the selected investor and providing financing, that is important. In answer to the Member's question, I would also like to point out, this is the information that we have obtained today, very recent, that the last contact of the investor with the RZGW was in 2012, i.e. the previous management of the mine referred there, there was no... So we strongly encourage you to contact RZGW, to talk, to carry out such activities together in the social interest that will enable you to meet these conditions and secure this, and to prepare for the construction of this tank.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u431	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Sitarski from the Kukiz club15 to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u432	Thank you, Marshal. At this point, I have not yet heard definite details. With all due respect, Minister, the data you've quoted, we already know. I'd like to say another thing. The creation of this reservoir will also improve sailing on the planned Odrzaska Waterway. This is also included in the programme of the current governing group. And now, in my opinion, in the case of land that is 100% the property of the State Treasury, the government should take a stand, should look at this, as it is really a key issue for tens of thousands of people living on the border of the Silesian voivodship and Opole voivodship, also for the Kuźnia Raciborska, for Raciborz, for Bierawa. It's really a key topic there. You could look at the pictures - the houses were half flooded with water. There's some stuff in here that's taken care of. [[♪ The bell ♪]] practically at the price of three Warsaw tenement houses, because 70% of the investment is already here. I would have even called for the subject to be taken seriously and to be specific, because the Minister said it was necessary, but the subject exists for 10 years, there is no time now. The litter dries, the 24-year-old forest, despite appearances, is more vulnerable to fire threat than the older forest.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u433	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u434	I would ask for specific information when such a team will arise, and for a declaration of the Ministry, when you can count on the start of work and the creation of this tank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u435	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Sławomir Mazurka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, let us remember that perpetual use is on the private side. In order to obtain funding for this project, it will of course require the participation of the RZGW. Hence the way I presented, that the entity that is there, the mine, must turn to the RZGW. And despite this tension, this passage of time did not occur. So here the initiative is on the side of the one who has statutory obligations. We will, of course, try to help. Let us remember that when it comes to asking for European funds, it will be the GGE that will mediate it. Water management, Mr President, is a high priority for us, it is the Minister of the Environment who has prepared a proposal for an amendment to Water Law, and we attach great importance to it. Minister Gajda, an outstanding specialist in water management and hydrotechnics, has come to this subject very substantively. The previous coalition of such a bill was not carried out by the Council of Ministers. We did it, and it's a serious success. Please be calm when it comes to our priorities. As far as this tank is concerned, we'll be trying to help, too. It's a concrete commitment. But let's act legally and systematically. It's the investor who has to... it's the entity, it's the mine that has to turn to the RZGW. We are ready to help in all this, so that all these processes that concern the preparation of decisions, updating, carry out in a way that will be fully transparent, efficient and ultimately effective. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u437	Thank you very much. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 18 hours 17 min 22]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 21 of the agenda. The next question was prepared by Mr Andrzej Kryj and Ms Anna April from the Law and Justice Club on the provisions that had taken place at the European Council meeting on 20 and 21 October 2016 concerning the protection of the European steel industry. A question for the Minister of Development. I ask you to ask Mr Andrzej Kryj's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u438	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! In February 2016, ministers responsible for economic affairs from Germany, Poland, France, Italy, the United Kingdom, Belgium and Luxembourg asked the European Commission to take action to address the steel crisis, which is linked to the dumped prices applied by China. In their letter, they called on the Commission to reform EU trade defence instruments. In the meantime, information has emerged that, as far as it is agreed that this European steel industry needs to be supported, there are problems with the agreement of the European capitals on this issue and they concern inter alia. to remove the so-called. the lesser duty rule so that higher anti-dumping duties could be imposed under certain conditions. On October 20, 21st, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on On the eve of the meeting, the CEOs of European steel companies sent an open letter to the Heads of State and Government in which they called for decisions to protect the steel industry in Europe and thus enable investment to continue and keep jobs in the sector. Given the importance of the steel industry in Poland, I kindly ask you to answer the following questions: What decisions have been taken on granting China market economy status and has it been decided to introduce more effective and faster working mechanisms to restore fair trading practices? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u439	Thank you very much. I kindly ask you to respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Paweł Ensign.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u440	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Mr. Speaker! As you said in the course of your questioning, the issue of market economy status for the People's Republic of China is one of the issues that are of great importance in European customs policy on customs. Indeed, the wedge associated with the so-called clinch has been maintained for a long time. a blocking minority. Poland has long advocated that European market protection instruments should be implemented effectively. What's the situation at this point? At the Council meeting on 21 October, it was decided that a different approach to trade protection instruments should be applied to economies which are not based on market principles. A concrete legislative proposal on granting market economy status to China is to be submitted to Member States as well as to the European Parliament in the first half of November. The Polish Government takes the view that the future amendment of the anti-dumping rules in the context of the implementation of the provisions of the Protocol must not undermine the current effectiveness of the trade defence instruments. As regards the subject of modernisation of trade defence instruments, the Council decided that, taking into account the current global challenges, market protection instruments must be effective in order to protect jobs. It has been decided that a compromise must be reached in the Council by the end of this year. Poland, as I have already said, is in the position of strengthening trade defence instruments. We believe that European industry must face other challenges than those that took place 10 years ago, and therefore a modification of the lesser duty rule is required to take account of the current global market conditions. On 9 November, the European Commission is planning to propose a new regulation on a new methodology. The old rules will remain in force until it is worked out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u441	Thank you very much. I would like to ask an additional question to Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u442	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have an extra question. Has the European Council discussed the CO2 emissions trading scheme and the impact of this system on the costs of manufacturing steel in European companies? Because this system, with ambitious environmental assumptions, could pose a threat to jobs and investments in the European steel sector, which Polish companies are very afraid of, as they raised in this memorandum, a letter which they sent to the Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u443	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Paweł Ensign.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u444	Since I did not attend this meeting, I would suggest that we address this question in writing, because neither I nor the director accompanying me participated in this meeting. [[I see. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u445	Thank you, too. The next question was prepared by Mr Grabarczyk, Mr Młyńczak and Mr Dunin of the Civic Platform on the noise level generated by the A1 motorway on the Stryków-Tuszyn section. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. I would ask you to ask the question of Mr Caesar Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u446	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! For several years Poland has been catching up on the construction of good roads in Poland. There are highways, expressways. We are trying to build these roads according to environmental standards. Man is part of the environment. Noise is the most annoying thing for a man. After giving up the section of the A1 motorway, so-called. the eastern ring road of Łódź, my office began to be visited by residents who are complaining about the annoyance of noise. They were carried out by a provincial environmental survey inspector. Nocturnal noise measurements confirmed that the standards were exceeded by more than 2 dB. The tests were done at two points. Hence my question: What measures does the Ministry and the General Directorate intend to take to raise the acoustic screens where it is needed? Let me add that a special association was established - building acoustic screens.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u447	Thank you. You're welcome, Mr. Arthur Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u448	I have a hint for the Minister. Due to the fact that this noise can actually be greater, because there is more traffic, the solution can be the construction of the S14 expressway, which would reduce traffic. Therefore, I have two short questions: When will the tender for the S14 be settled? When will the construction work begin?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u449	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Members, Construction of the A1 motorway on the Stryków-Tuszyn section was carried out by decision on environmental conditions of 30 January 2009 issued by the Regional Environment Director in Łódź. On this basis, project work and preparatory work were carried out. On the other hand, given that the noise protection legislation was amended in 2012 - and the previous legislation was very much contested - that the expenditure related to the construction of the screens was too strict - the previous government amended the rules which lowered those standards, and in 2012 the Regional Environment Directorate, at the request of the General Directorate of National Roads, carried out a second, complementary environmental impact assessment. In the course of the procedure, WDOŚ issued a decision agreeing to implement the project consisting in the construction of the A1 Stryków - Tuszyn motorway. This is the part about reducing the volume of acoustic screens. The Łódź Voivodeship in 2016 issued decisions amending the previous decisions of the Łódź Voivodeship granting permits for the construction of the A1 Stryków - Tuszyn motorway in the relevant sections. It's about acoustic screens. Today, after the investment has been completed, when the road has already been put into service, it is the responsibility of the general management to carry out a post-realization analysis - after 12 months from the date on which the motorway was put into service. This general responsibility will, of course, be carried out by the management. It's a statutory obligation. 18 months after the surrender of the motorway, the post-realization analysis must be submitted and submitted to the Regional Environment Director and the Regional Environmental Inspector in Łódź. On the other hand, the general management, without waiting for this deadline, took the following measures, taking into account the votes of the residents. In July of this year, a meeting was held with investors, i.e. representatives of representatives of residents, and media, which raised the problem of noise. The Directorate-General has informed participants of the acoustic safeguards to be carried out in accordance with applicable standards and approved documentation for which all relevant authorisations and final administrative decisions have been obtained. On the other hand, given that there have been protests and that this real social existence has to be addressed, decisions have been made on the following measures. By the end of July 2016, all information was collected from residents adjacent to the A1 motorway concerning noise nuisance. As a result of the analysis of the above information, the technical documentation identified areas where noise is particularly burdensome and the relevant documentation of the contractor was provided. Once the selected areas have been analysed, the contractor will re-test the noise intensity. Appropriate action will be taken in the event that the permissible noise levels are exceeded. The results of the re-tests on noise intensity, which took place in September and October this year, showed that the permissible noise standards were exceeded at 8 measurement points per 45 points. The crossings concerned mainly nighttime and included values below 3 dB. Only in the case of Sołecka Street did the crossing amount to not more than 3 dB. Currently, meetings of the Directorate-General with contractors have been planned, during which corrective programmes will be identified. So many answers to Mr Caesar's question... [[Grabber.]] ... Grabber. As far as the question on the S14 road is concerned, it seems to me how we look at the map, but also from the traffic analysis, this will not have a special impact on the turnout on the A1 motorway on this eastern part of the Łódź ring road. I don't think that's enough to solve this problem at this expense. On the other hand, in response to the question, when the tender will be decided, when construction works will start, I will repeat: when we took power, we received a programme of construction of national roads worth nearly PLN 200 billion, while the financial limit - at the level of PLN 107 billion. Every decision we make today is a difficult decision because we eliminate other investments. We're doing everything we can to make it as fast as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and make this investment happen. I will repeat: this road will be realized, but I am unable to answer by what date It's gonna happen. [[And a tender.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u451	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you an additional question from Mrs Aldona Młyńczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u452	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, In view of this example concerning A1 I would like to draw attention to the similar situation currently occurring in the construction of the road S5 in the section Widawa - Kryniczna, i.e. within the junction of Wrocław North. There is a similar situation, as with A1, that previously designed screens, 8 km of these screens were to be mounted. However, after the amendment of the regulation were 2 km of screens and their height was also reduced. With the naked eye, you can see that the S5 road will run in some places near the residential building. Therefore, it is the request of the inhabitants of the municipality of Wisznia Mała to examine the current standards of permissible noise level, with particular regard to such cases as we are talking about here. Perhaps this regulation should be reviewed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again improve them, and maybe you just need to examine the reports better or to prepare reports with traffic forecasts. I'm almost done. I'm just going to say, to highlight the whole situation, that the Wrocław North node runs near the Wrocław motorway ring road and there the noise level is so high that it equals the forecast of 2025. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u453	Thank you very much, Member. You're welcome, Minister Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In fact, in many places, people demand that the number of screens or other devices to protect them from noise be reduced, and in others, they even demand that screens or other devices be built. The situation you have presented with regard to S5 in the vicinity of Wrocław is indeed taking place. We're aware of that. Let me put it this way: there was a difficult decision to make - whether the construction should be stopped and the volume of noise re-examined, in fact the forecasted intensity, because today we are recalling situations in which we do not speak in the case of design, in the case of decision making, about real, but about the designed volume of noise. Unfortunately, it is often that this design does not agree with what then in real life is created by traffic on the road. I think what's most important is what we're going to be guided by is just common sense. Where it is really necessary to add noise protection devices, we will add. There are regulations that I was talking about - after 12 months of putting the road into service we need to examine, 18 months is for analysis and for deciding whether screens or other devices will be added or not. I think this is the best solution, because the change of laws itself... I would like to remind you that the amendment of the restrictive provisions reducing barriers was in 2012, because it seemed that a man was too protected primarily. It turned out that these regulations, today we are talking about this, unfortunately they have not worked out, at least that is what they say. And that's the thing they have different opinions about. I think that in this case it may not be so much necessary to change the rules as a really sensible, flexible approach to this problem. Where screens or other devices are needed, they should be installed in sufficient quantities, and where they are not necessary, you need to look for other solutions, not screens, or simply give up this expense at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u455	Thank you very much. The next question was prepared by the Members: Dariusz Starzycki, Andrzej Gawron and Jarosław Gonciusz from Law and Justice, on the resolution of the ecological threat situation in the valley of Wąwolnica in Jaworzno - to the Minister of the Environment. I ask you to ask Mr Dariusz Starzycki for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u456	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The problem of environmental impact on landfills of hazardous hazardous waste Organika-Azot chemical plants in Jaworzno is one of the biggest environmental problems in Europe and the largest in Poland. In 1995 for the Ministry of the Environment, the ranking of hazardous waste landfills in the voivodeship system and the country, the storage site in Jaworzno was ranked among the top poisoners - in second place, after the Tarnowskie Góra Chemical Plant. However, only one of the four landfills was taken into account when these documents were drawn up, which affected the misrepresentation of the situation in that area. For decades, plant protection products have been produced in Jaworzna since 1921, including DDT and lindane, and waste without any security has been located in the valley of the river Wawolnica. Extremely chemically contaminated areas occupy an area of about 40 hectares. The compounds found in this area are among the most toxic persistent organic pollutants, the production and use of which is prohibited by the Stockholm Convention. The scale of the problem is enormous, as demonstrated by the fact that the plant was included in the list of the four largest poisoners developed by the Helsinki Commission as one of the particularly dangerous sources of industrial pollution in the Baltic Sea. So far more than 200,000 have been inventoried in the valley of the Wąwice. t of these extremely toxic waste, often mixed with other waste. Leaks from their deposit sites directly contaminate surface and underground water. The measurements carried out in previous years have shown that standards are exceeded several hundred times. Therefore, in order to protect the people of our country from the environmental bomb left to us in decline by the previous system, it is necessary to intervene the state and to start working on the legal solution that we are dealing with in specific laws, e.g. on the Euro 2012, airport or flood road. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore ask the question: Is it possible to take appropriate action, including among others. legislative measures that will solve the problem described above? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u457	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Sławomir Mazurka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u458	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for this question. The case of the valley of Wąwolnica, the case of Jaworzna is the subject of a number of parliamentary inquiries, interpellations. This is the first time we've talked about this in our current questions. Thank you very much for this, because it is very important, apart from the Tarnowski Mountains, one of the most important hot spots on the map of our country when it comes to the threat of the environment. Like you said, the problem is old, it's growing, it's extending the time that has passed since the actions that have been taken before. In addition to what you said, I would like to point out that Organika Chemical Works in Jaworzno since 2002 have carried out the tasks imposed by the recovery decision of the Silesian Voivodeship, then the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship, obliging plants to eliminate the risks caused by the deposit of hazardous waste, products, chemicals, pesticides in CSO Rudna Góra's excavation in the deadline set by the end of 2020. the elimination of the risk caused by the deposit of these hazardous waste in the past and the remediation of the factory site, still to be carried out. Chemical plants requested the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship to repeal the recovery decision in 2012, suggesting the need for central authorities to participate in the removal of the consequences of the omissions concerning the excavation, as the problem of waste deposited in the plant area is of a non-local nature. The Marshal refused to repeal the decision, set a new deadline for its implementation in close connection with the project implemented by the city of Jaworzno. He considered that chemical plants were a legal successor to which it was still necessary to remove the causes of environmental harm following the historical activities of the predecessor, state chemical plants. The financial resources needed to solve this problem, to eliminate harmful environmental impacts, however, are far beyond the financial capacity of both cities and businesses that require financial support. At the request of the Śląskie voivodship environmental inspector, the task was included in the programme of eliminating environmental bombs requiring funding from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Ladies and gentlemen! Currently, complete technical documentation of the project and the rehabilitation of the area located in the premises of the Organika-Azot S.A. Chemical Works is being prepared, including mainly the excavations of CSO Rudna Góra and other contaminated sites in the city of Jaworzna - the development of the project - a complete project of construction and implementation of rehabilitation/remediation of contaminated areas in the valley of the Vąwolnica stream in Jaworzno and carrying out an assessment of the environmental impact of the project. In February 2015, a team of experts appointed by the city president selected the option of building an impermissible barrier around the landfill in order to prevent the inflow of water into CSO Rudna Góra and the removal of contaminated water into the treatment plant and the covering of the landfill with a layer of mineral material in order to reduce precipitation from atmospheric waste. Ladies and gentlemen! The Tarnowski Mountains or this case are important, important and need to be addressed in a systematic manner, hence the proposals that you have been talking about, the legislative proposals, are of course proposals that need to be considered and analysed. In order not to be empty-headed, I would like to say that the Ministry has created a special team for degraded areas, which will be such environmental pollution cases as may affect the environment, consider among the experts of the Ministry and invited guests. I would like to add that these problems are often inter-ministerial, so we will also invite experts so that they can be remediated systematically, taking into account the analysis of the most important and serious risks. In cases where such legislative needs will indeed need to be stepped in. Often cases involve past actions, not entirely lawful or at the border of law, and situations where a person has acquired a given area. This is not the case, but in general, looking at these issues as a whole, the problems of remediation are the result of the fact that there is no readiness to dispose of harmful waste, and everything that affects the environment and the health and life of people is very important. And here the issue of risk analysis will be very important, but also the preparation of appropriate projects in such a way that it is effectively and in accordance with a hierarchy, so that it does not pose serious risks to the environment and health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u459	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u460	In addition to my predecessor's question, I would like to inform you that at present this small employee company, which employs 134 people and which achieved a net profit for 8 months of 2016 not exceeding 395 thousand. zł, there is no possibility to bear the financial consequences of the activities of its great predecessor. It should be noted that the cost of environmental protection measures was estimated at 190 million. This value does not include the disposal and disposal of waste, the cost of which is estimated at more than PLN 1 billion. Therefore, I would like to ask for information on how such a small worker's company is to cover such huge costs of disposal and disposal of these waste. I believe that state intervention is necessary to remove this environmental bomb left by the previous system, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as other countries in Central and Eastern Europe do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u461	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Sławomir Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! Actions related to the improvement of soil quality, the process of remediation, the remediation of degraded areas are of course not cheap. We are fully aware that actors are not always able to bear the burden of often not their actions, inherited problems. That's why we're talking about historical pollution, which is before 2007. Ladies and gentlemen, this team was formed, among others. in order to make a full inventory of degraded areas, often degraded areas as a result of improper disposal of waste or even disposal of waste. In this case, these contaminations are in the soil. Of course, these areas are monitored all the time, they are monitored by drains and what is in the water. The Ministry of the Environment is a major economic resort, whose main task and purpose, as well as the priority, is the environmental safety of the country. In no way do we avoid ensuring that this country's environmental safety is properly ensured that citizens feel the level of environmental safety. Therefore, within this team, solutions will be prepared that will actually solve these problems and lead to the conclusion of these cases. Let us note that in this case It's a long process. There are also cases when even the funds were granted and it turned out that the technology was wrongly chosen. Often these are more complex problems than we think. Hence, we have a full understanding of this problem. We are in constant contact with the Regional Environmental Inspector through the Chief Environmental Inspector whose deputy is here with me in the O.R. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you again for that question. During the first meetings of our team, we will talk about these issues, as part of the inventory, and we will look for solutions that will allow us to deal with this matter as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible, but let us remember the whole process that has already taken place and which is still ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u463	Thank you, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the government's attitude towards the situation of persons with disabilities and their carers will be discussed at this session of the Sejm, which was requested by the Kukiz Club15. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and representatives of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Ms Agnieszka Chasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u464	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the beginning, I will express my reasonable doubt as to whether the Minister has a real chance to assess the actual state of progress in the implementation, e.g. requests made in the 2006 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities This doubt is primarily due to the fact that, if you want to evaluate something honestly and face something, you need to know first of all the facts and then define precisely, numerically, the goals you want to achieve, and the time in which you want to achieve these goals. The reports on the implementation of this Convention, to which Poland is required to submit, do not contain such data. A good and reliable diagnosis is not possible, because for years we do not know first of all how many people with disabilities are in Poland, among others. because in Poland there are at least five systems for determining the degree of disability. Disabled persons within each of their competent authorities must undergo various types of research, multiply the documentation, and for each audit and commission it is necessary to wait a long time, which costs not only people with disabilities, but above all our country. A disabled person who wishes to exercise his or her rights must usually visit various offices several times each year. What actions will the government take in order to harmonise the system of determining the degree of disability, because today on the basis of which state, whose statistics are to be determined, what number of people with disabilities in Poland? The next issue concerns the situation of carers of persons with disabilities. Two years ago, the Constitutional Tribunal issued a judgment declaring the granting provisions incompatible with the Constitution, i.e. variety of benefits for carers of children and adults with disabilities. There is no difference - the Minister should agree with me - in the situation of a disabled person whose disability was created before 16, 18 or 18 years old. Exactly the same needs, exactly the same responsibilities. So when will people with disabilities experience concrete and visible changes in this regard? For the government, it's really just a legislative process, for many of these people, it's just a matter of survival. Another absurdity is linked to labour market policy. At present we have one of the lowest levels of unemployment, but unfortunately from the Labour Fund we spend exactly the same amount on active forms of countering. We didn't limit the expenditure on training or for example. in order to maintain employment offices, and at the same time we have such a state, that over 360 companies in which more than 18 thousand work. people with disabilities are at risk. Their jobs are at risk precisely because, due to really small problems, small formal shortcomings, these companies will be forced - because they are forced to do so - to pay back the subsidies they received for their jobs from PFRON. Isn't it better instead of these trainings, the labour offices just keep jobs and fire the workplaces from these ridiculous penalties? What is rational - and please do not rely on the rules here, because we are in a place where these provisions can change, and we are here to make sure that the rules really solve problems and are not for themselves - so what is the real reason for maintaining a social pension of 84% The lowest pension? Does a person who is disabled since birth have fewer needs, fewer expectations, I don't know, less spends on drugs than a person whose disability was created later than 16 years old? For what purpose is the management of the funds PFRON is the responsibility of various types of offices: county offices, where are the county centers of family assistance, local governments, PFRON branches in the voivodship, as well as central offices? Each of them takes 2% commissions on what funds he spends. Not to mention that because of this multitude of offices and institutions, a disabled person is unable to grasp where to go, for what support and what to expect from individual offices. Why are there so many officials? You rejected the Kukiz15 project restricting the incapacity of people with intellectual disabilities, which has been requested for 10 years. I heard there were minor legal errors, that was the suggestion. So use this army of officials once for what you need. Why is this project, in your opinion, legally improved, not here, not being processed? Can these officials be of any use to you? Dear Minister, when are you going to fix this system? Because the demands of disabled environments [[♪ The bell ♪]] they've been known for years. You don't have to consult anymore. They just have to be realized. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u465	Thank you very much, Member. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Bartosz Marczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! High Izbo! Let me give you a brief overview of what is going on with people with disabilities in general, because this seems to be quite crucial. As regards the financial support of carers of disabled persons, we have a care provision. It is paid to parents who resign to take care of children and are entitled to income of PLN 1300 at the moment. There is also a special welfare allowance, you know that, and this is the benefit which is entitled to PLN 520 after fulfilling the income criterion. Apart from that, the caretaker's allowance. I will get to that in a moment, because here is the context of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in November, while we must be aware of the scale of this aid. The care provision is paid 116 thousand. persons. Annual expenditure is PLN 2.2 billion. Special welfare allowance - 40 thousand. persons, 290 million PLN, and welfare benefits - 45 thousand PLN. persons, PLN 330 million per year. Another provision that supports people with disabilities, especially children, is the 500+ benefit this year. Please note that the income criterion for this benefit, in terms of people with disabilities, is very high for Polish conditions - that is 1,200 PLN net per person in the family and our estimates show that 90% children in Poland, 90% disabled children, approx. Twenty-two thousand, getting a benefit of 500+, so it's already happened. It's not that it's a declaration, it's just that it happened - 220 grand. Children simply receive a benefit of 500+. In addition, there are preferences in terms of income criteria also in the family benefit system, because there is a higher income criterion for children with disabilities, there is 764 PLN, and not 674, and additions to the family allowance for child care, single education, rehabilitation and education of a disabled child, taking up education outside the place of residence by the child also prefer children with disabilities in some way. Now what's going to happen since January 1st, because that's important too. From 1 January we have increased the care provision to the amount of PLN 1406 plus, of course, the amount of contributions paid from this benefit respectively, so that it grows significantly in the wake of the minimum wage. And, what is important, on 1 January, a law will enter into force which will give the possibility to pay care, that is to say, the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, more than one person, if there is more than one child in the family who needs care. And now what is also very important and what needs to be noticed. Since 1 March we have been valorizing in the pension system, but this valorization in 2017 will be quite unique. As the minimum benefit grows up to PLN 1000, there is also an unprecedented increase in social pensions, as it grows from PLN 700 - I looked at the Zusov data today, the average payout on social pensions is PLN 730 - to PLN 840, following the minimum pension, which will be just PLN 1000. What is also important, this increase in this benefit, this minimum pension, makes carers of persons with disabilities who are on the so-called. EWK, these are pensions granted before 1999, will also be covered by this increase. In other words, they will also receive a higher minimum pension as a result of the increase in the minimum pension. What happens next? We have these two teams, one is the result of the decision of the Prime Minister of August 2016 and this is the team to develop solutions for improving the situation of people with disabilities and members of their families. Of course, this team works, its head is Minister Michałkiewicz, who, of course, would answer all the questions related to it as a proxy for people with disabilities, but is in the Senate at the moment - there is a procedated act The second team is an inter-ministerial team for the development of a government support programme just for families.For life founded on 4 October. He too has ambitions, as you know perfectly well, not to close this discussion here, today, now, at this level, but to develop more systemic solutions by the end of the year. However, I would like to point out, which probably did not seem to me in this debate, that it is not just this benefit - 4,000. zł. There is a very large service element for people who are pregnant or who later face problems if they have children with disabilities. There, 70 million PLN is allocated to the work of family assistants who will be obliged to help such people in the situations in which they will find themselves - both in terms of pregnancy and later - if the child is born, they will help in terms of services. Another thing that's up to date all the time is specialized care services. And here, of course, are these environmental self-help homes. It's a big thing against appearances, probably underrated. The number of these environmental self-help homes is now 770, so that it is a lot, there are 28,000 places in them. and the annual amount of PLN 457 million is spent on this. Of course, there are still white spots when it comes to environmental self-help homes. At the end of 2015 in 45 powiats, 15 new houses will be opened by the end of 2016, including three in those powiats which constitute these white spots. Social security issues. I mentioned the amount of the social pension - 840 PLN, which is very much increasing. There was actually no such increase in recent years, because this is an increase of 13%. Also, of course, there are also growing in this respect - I mentioned this, PLN 1000 minimum pension - benefits from the EWK. On the other hand, it is the subject of our analyses, and we are meeting with the EWK environment on this matter, whether it should not be so, since the care provision is 1400 PLN, that it is paid to those who are at EWK, a supplement to this amount. This is the subject of analysis, we are meeting with this environment. Besides, of course, we meet with all the environments of people with disabilities, actually all the time. Last week, together with Deputy Minister Michalkiewicz, we were at the center of the dialogue at such a meeting. Shortly more employment-related issues. Here, too, we have a law passed on 6 October which gives people who have previously worked with disabilities the right to unemployment benefits and to a pre-retirement benefit. I think she's already in the Senate. With regard to dialogue, this is a new shape of the National Consultative Council on People with Disabilities, there are more representatives of NGOs - there are 20 of them at the moment, there were seven. Also since 1 August 2017. - and this is a postulate which, as I understand it, has repeatedly raised the environment of people with disabilities - a new legitimacy of the disabled person will be issued. Answering the question directly to the Member's question about the codification of the case-law system. Since January, a large EU project has been launched, which is about to bring about such harmonisation. With regard to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal - returning to the difference between the care provision and the SZO, which is a special welfare allowance - we said from the outset that this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal will be carried out, that it will be carried out. However, given the rather short time and scale of things in social policy that have taken place, we need to realise that everything can simply not be done at once. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u467	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members still like to speak? I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Bernadette Krynick, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u468	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In May this year. Disabled persons and their guardians protested against the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. At that time, Prime Minister Beata Szydło put together 21 postulates to allow them to live a decent life. The protesters, above all, accused the next government of not being interested in their fate. They stressed, among other things, that they have problems with education, rehabilitation, lack of an assistant, unequal treatment and of course the problem of low social benefits. On the other hand, carers of adults with disabilities raised the problem of separation between carers of children and carers of adults. They returned, among others. Attention to the difference in benefits between these groups. Minister, in this connection, I have a question: What are the actions of the government for older people with disabilities? And what will be the continuation of this? What measures are being taken to support families with more than one disabled person requiring care? And the final question: How many demands, and which of these 21 have been fulfilled? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u469	Thank you very much. Now you're asking Sławomir Infantry, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u470	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you a very specific question. Does the Minister know how dramatic the situation is when a mother is pregnant finds out that she is suffering from a rubella? Does the Minister know that one of the effects of the rose may be the deafness of the child? Does the Minister know that Poland has a unique worldwide program for early detection of hearing defects thanks to the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid by Jerzy Owsiak? This allows you to start treatment and rehabilitation at a very early stage of your child's life. If rehabilitation is carried out consistently, persistently, I would say, among tears and sweats, the result may be a far-reaching restoration of the chances of such a child's independence and activity. And this deaf child, a deaf child after 16 years of age, can be classified as a minor disability. It would seem that it's... it wouldn't seem, it's the great success of this child, his loved ones, his therapists. But this child is excluded from the 500+ programme because it turns out that children with disabilities do not benefit lightly as other children with disabilities from the 500+ programme. Minister said 90%. children with disabilities are covered by this programme. Why do you exclude these children from the full use of the 500+ program? Does the government really believe that it is necessary to go back and show, I say, the terrible wickedness of this solution? Isn't it time to remove it? And isn't it time? include children with disabilities in the 500+ programme lightly? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u471	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u472	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the important demands put forward by organisations of people with disabilities is the issue of free travel for people with disabilities, including children, together with a caregiver to fulfil the school obligation, treatment, rehabilitation and diagnosis. It would seem that the legal provisions are sufficient for such an obligation to be fully fulfilled by the authorities. In the meantime, it is not. How will the government implement this legitimate request, which significantly facilitates the lives of people with disabilities and their carers? But first of all, how does the government want to create a favourable atmosphere in order to even force this obligation on local authorities? There are self-governments that are contrary to art. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a The 1991 Act on the Education System ordering them to arrange for free access to a school fully ensuring that the pupils with disabilities comply with the recommendations contained in the judgment on the need for special training avoids fulfilling this obligation by limiting the scope of the recommended training. Of course, in such generalizations it is best to give a concrete example. And that's what I'm going to appeal to. In the district, Prime Minister Beata Szydło is familiar with the case of a student who, according to the ruling, should use a specialist facility. Unfortunately, the mayor and the city council won't accept it. They do not acknowledge that the nearest facility does not mean a facility that meets only certain requirements. This is about an institution that will meet all the requirements set out in the disability ruling. So what does it mean and what it looks like to supervise the exercise of the obligation under Article by local authorities. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a [[♪ The bell ♪]] The law on the education system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u473	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u474	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When we talk about the situation of people with disabilities and their carers, it seems that we should be talking in such a non-political context, but each of us - at least I have the impression - understands that this situation requires the support of the state, but unfortunately it somehow happens that for many, many years now, the state has not fulfilled those obligations that seem legitimate to these people, regardless of who ruled, who had the parliamentary majority. These discussions and conclusions have remained in this sphere of declarations, and so far there has been no implementation of these rational demands, which are undoubtedly the demands that need to be implemented. I hope, however, that the state as having power now in Poland will find such an internal understanding in itself for these needs that they will begin to implement them. The opportunity itself emerged because for a year, although you declare understanding, you have not attempted to prepare a law on the implementation of the 2014 Constitutional Tribunal judgment, which you have also asked for, on the diversity of people with disabilities due to the age of disability. I just want to say to you, Minister, that today, the Modern Posel Club has tabled a bill amending the Family Benefits Act, which implements this sentence. I wanted to ask the Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether you will have the courage to support this good opposition project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u475	The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u476	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Social policy on people with disabilities requires continuity and continuity. It can't be that the predecessors didn't do anything, and now we're gonna come and do it, and it's gonna be okay, we're gonna start over, because that way we can blow up the whole system that we've been working on. This system has been improved. I was surprised to hear Minister Majszczyk's reply just now, who said and overruled this thesis, which appeared in the morning discussion, that when it comes to supporting environmental houses of social self-help, we are already one year earlier, ahead. I would like to say that it was on the initiative of Minister Michałkiewicz that there will be 230% of the base amount next year and 250% of the base amount in 2018. Today we have huge protests of environmental homes of social self-help. The Minister said 770 028 thousand. people benefit from the same self-help. Thank you for that information. But these people have a huge problem today. Each of these houses, each of these environments is asking us for help, asking for support, saving, because so far the resources have been insufficient, and the fact that they will not be increased next year, because it is so good, is a shock to these units. On the other hand, there is a debate on today's law for life. We made a proposal to give 500 PLN each for rehabilitation of born children who were diagnosed with these terrible diseases that were mentioned here today. So what? On the one hand, Minister Michałkiewicz says: [[♪ The bell ♪]] intervene with the finance minister, and on the other hand, if we make a motion and propose something, it is be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u477	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is short: Does the 500+ programme support people with disabilities? Please explain and resolve any possible doubts that arise in connection with the 500+ programme and the disabled. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u479	Thank you. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to start by pointing out that this is the current information addressed to the government, and therefore I will not only speak to the Minister, the Deputy Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, but I will also talk about matters that concern people with disabilities, including in the field of medical care for persons with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen! According to Eurostat in Poland, at the end of 2014 every other person aged 60 and more was included in the population of biologically disabled people, people who, due to health problems, had limited ability to perform the activities that people usually perform. In the group of the oldest seniors 85+ it was over 3/4 of this collective. In other words, I would like to show that we have a disability very often in the group of older people. Therefore, my questions to the Minister will mainly concern senior policy, which the government of Beata Szydło should lead, and clearly does not lead this policy. And the aim of this senior policy, whose pillars were created by the government of the Civic Platform and PSL, is also to ensure a decent, healthy old age. First question, Minister: Do you remember that on 11 September 2015 the Polish Parliament passed a law on older people? In this bill we obliged the Council of Ministers to... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u481	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome. Unfortunately, you've been talking. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voices from the O.R.: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u482	All right. It's with this bill... When will there be information about the situation of the elderly? That's the question. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u483	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question from the other side. We can all make demands for people with disabilities, because it is financial, so I have this question: Is the government, or is the minister planning to review the PFRON funds that go to the help of various organizations? [[Applause]] It is not enough if these measures reach these organisations, what happens later, when the programme ends, with permanent measures that are left in these organisations as a result of professional activation? Their way is unclear. I tried to check it out once, and I didn't make it to the end. And the second question, because I still have a little bit of time, is this: What does the government plan to do to force in particular public utility offices, ministry or State Treasury companies to increase the employment of people with disabilities according to the requirements of the Act? It can be said that the fees paid by these institutions are simply a waste of money, and this has a significant impact on professional activation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u484	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Care for people with disabilities is one of the priorities of the rule of law and justice and the fulfilment of pre-election promises. Minister, I have a few questions for you. What measures are being taken to support parents who are forced to stop working due to the upbringing of an independent and disabled child? Second question: Does a person who cares for a disabled person, an unrelated person, but who is the legal guardian of that person, have any care allowance? If not, should we not take appropriate action here? Next question: Is it a negative condition for a person fulfilling the conditions for receiving a care allowance after having lost his or her job? Who is the body that determines the right to provide care? Who is the appeal or control body? He is not the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Policy. And last question: Why a disabled person from birth after gaining maturity, after 18 years of age, loses the care service and turns to the so-called. Social pension, which until recently amounted to 640 PLN, and now more than 700 PLN? Are there any work to improve this situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u486	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u487	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Care allowance, care allowance are two benefits for people with disabilities. What's the connection? They combine primarily the same destiny, and thus partial coverage of expenses resulting from the need to provide care and assistance to other persons in connection with the inability to exist on their own. What's the difference between them? It divides them, ladies and gentlemen, the height. One is PLN 153 and the care supplement - PLN 208 and is valued. However, it must be pointed out that the former, i.e. the care allowance, is paid on the basis of the Family Benefits Act, while the latter is paid under the pension scheme. Minister, I would like to ask you: When will the Government of Law and Justice settle these benefits? Since we have the same destiny - they are actually meant for the same people - when will the Government of Law and Justice harmonise, compensate for these benefits? I remember that Law and Justice repeatedly demanded from the Platform Government and PSL to compensate for these benefits. Today, the Government of Law and Justice has 11 months of power in the state. We want to know when exactly, exactly, these benefits will be evened out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u488	Thank you. The question is asked by Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Polish legal system lacks procedural solutions that would ensure efficient communication between judicial authorities and persons with various kinds of disabilities. The judicial authorities are not required to carry out correspondence in the Braille alphabet or supporting and alternative communication. Another important barrier to accessing justice for people with disabilities is the architectural accessibility of court buildings or the prosecutor's office. Many of these institutions are based in old, often historic buildings built prior to the entry into force of the new Construction Law. Contrary to the obligation arising from the provision of Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has not been systematically trained to protect the rights of persons with disabilities to date. The programmes of training of judges and prosecutors conducted by the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office do not directly provide for any training block devoted to the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. I ask the Minister to answer whether, in order to guarantee people with disabilities, their constitutional right to court, the government plans to undertake work to bring the judicial procedure and the buildings of the courts and the prosecutions into line with the needs of those persons and to provide regular training for judicial staff in the protection of the rights and specific needs of persons with disabilities. As for the Minister's earlier statement, I had the impression that people with disabilities receiving 1,400 PLN should be happy. So I propose to the Minister that for 1,400 PLN a month with a disabled person live just a month and show how happy he is, and then he spoke about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u490	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marek Polak, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u491	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Caretakers of adults with disabilities in their demands demand, among others. equalise the care benefits due to them to the amount of the benefits received by caretakers of minors whose benefit is much higher. In addition, I have also met with the request of carers of disabled persons who, in the event of a coincidence of care provision with pension provision, expect the possibility of choosing a more favourable benefit for them. I wanted to ask the Minister what is the position of the Ministry in relation to these demands and expectations of carers of persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u492	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club. There is no Member. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How does the government intend to provide free access to the necessary rehabilitation services for all people with disabilities? And the second question: Does the government intend to abolish the income criterion for this category of people in social assistance regulations and social and occupational rehabilitation regulations for people with disabilities? I ask this because this need arises directly from the constitutional principle of social solidarity, as well as from the random nature of disability. It must be taken into account that the cost of rehabilitation leads to a deterioration of the material situation also of those persons and families who exceed the criterion of income entitlement to benefits, their standard of living is significantly reduced, and this is not because of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u494	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Anna April, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The environment of disabled people looks forward to the subjective treatment, especially throughout the process of creating laws relating to their environment. Therefore, I have a short question: How is the involvement of representatives of the environment of people with disabilities ensured in the process of developing solutions to improve the situation of these people? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u496	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There are a lot of issues that are necessary in terms of proper relations with people with disabilities, because that's what this is all about. It's not some kind of support or help or grace, it's just respect in intercourse, mutual. But there are also those who require only empathy, certain regulatory measures, to respect this respect. This applies e.g. families of persons with intellectual disabilities who report problems with the need to provide care to their subjects in a situation of sudden illness of a single guardian who, for example, He's going to the hospital. These people sometimes remain unattended and even without the knowledge or interest of their neighbors, who sometimes simply do not know about it. The problem is that we cannot hospitalize these people, because they are not sick, they do not require hospitalisation, and in turn social aid regulations require administrative decision, adequate environmental interview, etc. The most effective and really demanding such empathy and regulatory action seems to be the creation of an opportunity to intervene in a social assistance home, but also to address the issue of e.g. with intellectually disabled persons who are deprived of the possibility of making effective statements of their will, who are incapacitated at the same time. This particular intervention situation, I think, could be resolved, I'm not saying that without any financial implications, because this intervention activity will probably somehow be [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the effect she had, but he's really micro, micro. Good will and empathy will be all there is to it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u498	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Maciej Masławski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u499	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Why does the government continue to maintain, despite the electoral promises, a scandalously low level of social and welfare benefits for people with disabilities? Today's pension is PLN 644 and the benefit is PLN 153, which is well below the social minimum, which is between PLN 839 and PLN 1079. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u500	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Kryj, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u501	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! The problem of helping people with disabilities is an extremely important problem. I am not surprised at the emotions expressed by some of the ladies and gentlemen of the House, because I am aware of the scale of negligence and omissions in this matter from previous years. Allow me to agree with the Minister on this increase in the amount of social pension from PLN 741,35 up to PLN 840. This is an increase of 13%, 100 PLN, ladies and gentlemen. But follow the raises over the last few years. I did it. These increases in previous years amounted to PLN 29.30. This year's increase is greater than in the previous few years in total, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] 100 PLN it may not be much, but for the person who received this 100 PLN less, it is really quite a lot. I'd like to look at the scale of this, ladies and gentlemen. It's better to have those 100 zlotys than not have them, isn't it? Let's be fair about our grades. I would therefore like to ask: How big is a group of people who will receive this raise? Is this good trend of such a scale of increases in the philosophy of the ministry and government for future years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u502	Thank you. The question is asked by Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The increase in care allowance has been one of the main demands of parents and carers of children and adults with disabilities for many years. From this part of the room I hear quite often urging: 8 years. And now I'm gonna tell you, ten years. This allowance hasn't changed in 10 years. 153 PLN has been since 2006, without 10 gr more. Do you have an idea of the purchasing power of PLN 153 10 years ago, and what is it now? I think it's a little different. I don't ask you why, Minister, I ask you, when you will clearly and clearly change the amount of this allowance so that the parents of these poor children feel worthy in our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u504	Thank you. The question is asked by Dariusz Starzycki, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u505	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The best assistance people with disabilities can get are services obtained in the nearest environment. Here I am thinking of caring services or specialized caring services. Minister, what is the current situation in this area? What services can people with disabilities use? What is the size of the assistance? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u506	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Starzycki. Excuse me, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15. [[From Koszalin.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Does the government have any way of preventing legislation that is designed for people with disabilities from being really facaded, which is not followed by appropriate measures? A good example is the situation where a disabled person, in accordance with the Minister's Regulation on the definition of the types of tasks of the county which may be financed by PFRON, has the possibility to benefit from funding to remove architectural barriers. According to the Regulation, this funding may amount to up to 95% of the investment costs, and in practice measures are offered many times lower than the proposed or declared lack of resources. Second question. In Poland, in most of the toilets in workplaces, apart from the standard, all well-known division into female and male sex is also distinguished by the third sex - people in wheelchairs. There is a regulation by the Minister for Social Work of 26 September 1997, which refers to showers, paragraphs, lockers and washrooms. Therefore, I kindly ask you to answer the question of why people who are fully operational can enjoy the privilege of distinguishing between their sexes and using separate paragraphs, and that people with disabilities are indirectly deprived of their gender identity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u508	The question is asked by Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u509	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister! The lack of mobility disability is a daily struggle with their own weaknesses, but also with an unpleasant architectural environment, which is very often not adapted to their needs. Despite the fact that there have obviously been very positive changes in this matter in recent years, still as a Kukiz club15 we get very many signals, e.g. that ATMs are not suitable for disabled people. We know very well how sensitive and sensitive it is for each of us to withdraw money. ATMs, which are not adapted to the needs of disabled people, constitute a barrier and require that a person who often moves in a wheelchair or is blind, has asked for help in paying out foreign persons' money, which is, firstly, dangerous from this point of view, that we are obviously talking about financial resources and, secondly, constitutes some kind of barriers that must undoubtedly be overcome as soon as possible. Hence my question. When the government addresses this issue, will it oblige banks operating in the Republic of Poland to address this issue so that ATMs are adapted to the needs of people with disabilities? First of all, we would like to ask you about the date when this will take place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u510	I would like to ask Mr Mark Jakubiak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u511	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the Ombudsman's report on the fulfilment of obligations under the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Poland is still dominated by an archaic model of total institutional care instead of services supporting services normally provided at home. We know that keeping one person costs you about 5,000. zł, while at home much less and the atmosphere is completely different. I wanted to ask you, Minister, do you realize that you've been talking for 10 minutes about how we keep people with disabilities in our country, and it should actually be, I don't know, two complex sentences. I think we need to start thinking about the fact that a disabled person or a disabled child should be assigned e.g. the benefit of a national average and that benefit in the form of a national average should follow such a disabled person until death. Then we are faced with full safety and with a worthy person with disabilities. I believe that solidarity, such an inter-human, in our country should order us to do so, not talk for 10 minutes about benefits, some pensions, etc. The disabled person should have his/her status and should have his/her salary, and the person he/she cherishes should have at least that amount of pension. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u512	The last question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Polskie Koleje Państwowe S.A. is a single-member company of the State Treasury created as a result of commercialization of the state enterprise Polskie Koleje Państwowe. The only shareholder of the company is the State Treasury, which currently represents the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development. However, I would like to point out that PKP services are not being adapted to the needs of people with disabilities. You may be tempted to say that the slogan advertising PKP services is a good journey only for people who are fully fit, because for those who are unable to enjoy full efficiency, rail travel can be a disaster. Despite the possibility of booking seats and wagons for people with disabilities in theory, in practice it turns out that cars and seats are not adapted at all to the needs of people with disabilities. Toilets and corridors are too narrow, there are no elevators to get on the train. The situation was loud from July this year, when a group of disabled people going on a rehabilitation tournament, having a reserved car for disabled people had to travel by car, which had no amenities, and it was necessary to bring passengers to the train on their hands. Therefore, I kindly ask you to answer the question: What measures will be taken to prevent this situation from happening again? How does the government intend to adapt the railroad to the needs of people with disabilities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u514	I now ask that the representative of the applicants be heard by Mrs Agnieszka Chasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u515	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to say this: this information, which the Minister has presented, what the government plans to do, is, with all its sympathy for what this government wants to do, because it will actually be able to say that you have done so much, and we will do so much, unfortunately it looks a bit like petting a cat from tail to head, up, and yet saying: be quiet, after all you are petted. All this information, all these questions should lead the government to one basic thing - it is not enough to give 100 PLN, 50 PLN, a little more, you have to make meaningful changes. Quite recently, in the committee, I asked questions on the annual report on the implementation of this convention, which we are talking about here, simple questions: how am I supposed to assess whether the government did what it did, since none of these reports said what it intended to do, how it intended to change the indicators. And in all these questions, we're going to get you to come up with this. not on top, throwing a hundred zloty, 50 zlotys, just in such a way as to actually solve this situation. Minister, bureaucracy. You haven't even touched the subject here. Minister, you can't do anything, you can't spend any public money if you don't know if it's gonna really work, because that's always gonna happen every year, and so we have every government talking: we've done so much, and you haven't done so much, have you? And that's not how it works. Really, a disabled person walks through various types of offices, which are very expensive for this country. You mentioned here that there really is no money. I agree with that, the budget isn't made of rubber, but really look at the way you spend your money. 2% PFRON commission, labour offices that are not needed at the moment, because unemployment is decreasing and long-term unemployed people, including people with disabilities, go to social assistance, fall out of your statistics. 4 billion PLN, and I could exchange a lot of these kinds of offices. You're gonna do the right thing when you really don't make a disabled person walk around 11 offices - that's what I counted. You're texting me who's been to the office six times to get a parking card. You were talking about I.D.s, I'm talking about the ruling system. You want to carry out the project. What project? The project will last for 2 years and after 2 years we will learn that we still do not know how to change this system. You had eight years to prepare for a real system change, save money where you don't have to spend it, and put it where you really need to give it. In order to get any funding for a rehabilitation tournament, you have to bring a stack of papers and each disabled person has to really think about which office she needs to take these papers to. Minister, these are not reforms. It's a good thing whatever you're giving, I'll be brief. You said you would increase the care provision. It is good that at the end there was an element connected with the execution of the judgment of the tribunal, which will not differentiate the guardians regardless of when the disability arose. We are talking about carers of adults who charge 520 PLN, now a little bit of this benefit will also be raised. This is due to a normal increase, but we still do not know the time limit when this sentence will be executed. 772 is a printing number that has been in the Seym freezer since July and is talking about equalizing the differences between these EWK ladies and other carers. You can start proceding it. Today it turns out that you made a bill in three days. You can do it, you have officials who can just do it, unless it's about things that are inconvenient for you. You mentioned environmental houses, it rained here, too. Yes, 1260, this grant is frozen, but it will be in quota, already Minister Bojanowska explained it. But please note that when it comes to current spending, you have put everything in the special reserve and the SDS by the end of next year they will not be able to spend it, they will not be able to raise their salary or, for example. To pay for a meal because it's gonna be frozen and if it isn't, it's a public finance discipline. Everything you're doing, you're doing exactly as I said. You really need to get on with the system change. That's all, all these questions should be used to gather information. Not teams, because these teams and councils have been operating for years. 21 postulates is what you - because you have the authority to do it, you have the opportunity, you have the parliamentary majority - you can just do it. Lower the bureaucracy. You'll save money, you'll have real expenses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u516	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Bartosz Marczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u517	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me ask you a question. She asked what action we had taken to make it possible to receive more than one child. This is the law that we have implemented with regard to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which means that it may affect more than one guardian if there are more than two children in the family. Now, Mr Piechota. You, Mr President, use such very strong words, saying that it is outrageous to cut off children with disabilities, that it is outrageous that we do not help children with disabilities. Mr President, I don't like that kind of verbal bullying, and I don't like getting into it. On the other hand, when I say that the 500+ programme covers 220 000. children with disabilities, that means that well over PLN 1 billion goes to these children as a result of the adoption of this programme. Please note that you're manipulating the word. No one is excluded from this program. The income criterion is 800 PLN for a child who is full-time and 1200 PLN for children with disabilities. Please also note that for 8 years you have been in the governing coalition and when the laws related to family benefits were passed, with all such issues related to child assistance, no one has ever raised this - it is a slight degree of disability after 16 years of age - he did not say to change that. So that I would very much ask to see it on a whole scale. 90% children with disabilities receive support from the 500+ programme. There has never really been such a qualitative leap when it comes to this issue. As far as free travel is concerned, I'm sorry, but we'll respond in writing. It's hard for me to keep that up to date. Mr Suchoń asks for the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It's been changing too. As I said, we are still declaring that we will execute this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Please note that it hasn't even been a year since the government's constitution. There's really a lot left. done when it comes to social policy. You can't do everything. For 2017, there is indeed no provision for the execution of that judgment by the Constitutional Tribunal. Mr Kasprzak is asking about environmental help homes. Here, in fact, this amount has been frozen for six years as regards the issue of extra money. On the other hand, from 1 January 2016 there is an increase from 1030 PLN to 1268 PLN, which travels there on one charge. I'm speeding up or I won't make it. Senior policy. Although he has not asked a question, I answer that 300 pages have been sent to the Council of Ministers in respect of the report on senior policy. Does 500+ support disabled people? I was just saying. You really need to keep it down a notch. If there is a 500+ program that really helps, and it actually fits 90% children with disabilities, this is actually a qualitative change, Mr President. I am also saying this to Mr Goncier. With regard to the review of the PFRON measures - referring to what Mrs Chasing said at the end - I absolutely agree. Yes, I absolutely agree, we need horizontal, systemic policy. We need to look at where that money goes, how that money goes, whether it's going head-on or not going head-on. And we do declare, indeed we are preparing a strategy. This team, which we meet in the center of Dialogue, was created just to develop such systemic solutions. Here's the deal, that's the way it's supposed to be. As regards issues related to what action should be taken in the case of the parent of a disabled child, this is the increase to PLN 1403. There have also been issues related to representatives of the disabled in Dialogue. I said that this is extended - Mrs April asked this - from 7 to 20 people. Social security. Mr Butterwski says that it is scandalously low, but then Mr Kryj rightly points out... Ladies and gentlemen, if the social pension is increased by more than 13% in 1 year, even if someone is very unkind, he must appreciate that this is an increase of 13% at a time when there is really no inflation in Poland. There was simply no such increase as regards these benefits. They just weren't there. 13% This is a really huge raise. As far as architectural barriers are concerned - Mr Andruszkiewicz asked - another EU perspective stresses very strongly to reduce them. PKP, non-compliance. Of course I don't feel like I don't have a mandate to answer that kind of question, it's more of a PKP question. On the other hand, if a new rolling stock is purchased from the European Union, it must be adapted to the needs of people with disabilities, those are the requirements. I'm gonna go back to social security. Mr Kryj asked how many people are covered by this social pension. That's 277,000. persons. Oh, and then there's the issue of nursing allowance and nursing allowance. There's a difference, she's really been from the beginning. The allowance is valued as pensions from the FUS, the allowance is in another pension scheme. Probably the subject of reflection should be as far as this difference is justified, although they are in two separate systems. There is no foreseen increase in the care allowance for 2017. If I've left one of the ladies and gentlemen out of the way, I apologize, of course. We can also... [[I asked about the justice system.]] Oh, you asked about the justice system. That is also the question, of course, to the Ministry of Justice. I can't answer questions like this from the march, so either we're gonna hand them over, or... [[No, but what are you gonna do about it?]] Excuse me, could I answer that? We will either hand it over, or if the Member speaks to the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice will certainly answer on this issue. Although Mr Jakubiak did not ask a question, I would like to say a little a contrario that I was not just talking about benefits, expenses and additions, I was just talking about services. In my opinion, what Mrs Chcaj is also saying is a really good direction of thinking, which is not only to think about issues directly related to financial assistance, but to see the whole system, to see where its shortcomings are, and to really go towards the service state, i.e. to give parents or people with disabilities themselves or their carers, if they care for adults, to choose their way of life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u518	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Piechota is still being corrected. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u519	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I have never questioned this, Minister, that in the 500+ programme for children with disabilities, which they receive on a preferential basis - i.e. the first child - this benefit, that is a value. But from the beginning I say that incomprehensible and incomprehensible - in this context I have also started to use stronger words, since it does not happen for so long - the wicked is exclusion - and I will explain here, because it may be unclear - for such a short period, these 2 years, children with disabilities to a light degree. Up to the age of 16, the degree of disability of the child is not differentiated and up to the age of 16, each disabled child receives this benefit. A 16-year-old child is subject to a disability decision and then a child who has a light disability decision loses the preference according to which the first child gets a benefit. He doesn't get this benefit, he goes into a completely normal system. And now often this slight step... Because what is the absurdity of this situation? On the fact that it is a certain punishment for the hard work put into making this child disabled only lightly. For example, a deaf child is most often qualified as lightly disabled, but this is the result of many years of heroic work of parents of this child, therapists. After all, this child, I think there is no doubt, this support is still very much needed, because it needs additional activities, and systematic rehabilitation, and modern equipment, which is often not sufficiently funded by public funds. And that's why it's incomprehensible that these children with disabilities are slightly excluded. Hence the question: will you finally remove this exclusion from this system, so that the 10% children with disabilities, [[♪ The bell ♪]] like these 90% Did you get that benefit, too? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u520	Thank you very much, sir. This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 23. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration (Print No. 930). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Mr Sebastian Chwałk to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, I would like to present a draft law amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. It is a cleaning project aimed at updating the names of the State Sanitary Inspection of the Ministry of the Interior and the Board of Housing Resources of the Ministry of Home Affairs, units previously subordinate to the Minister of Home Affairs and now the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. To this end, the project provides for appropriate changes to the basics for the above mentioned. organisational units of legal acts, i.e. in the Act of 14 March 1985 on the State Sanitary Inspection, which defines the area of operation of the State Sanitary Inspection of the Ministry of Interior, and in the Act of 22 June 1995 on the accommodation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, as well as in the Act of 10 July 2015 on the Agency for Military Property, governing the tasks of the Board of Housing Resources of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In addition, the project also envisages the necessary amendments to other legal acts of the statutory rank, which include regulations relating to the State Sanitary Inspection of the Ministry of Interior, the Chief Health Inspector of the Ministry of Interior or the State Health Inspector of the Ministry of Interior, e.g. in the Pharmaceutical Law Act or in the Public Health Act of 11 September 2015. The draft also provides for the amendment of the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration, consisting of the separation in the section: Information on infrastructure and spatial information, and the amendment in the Act of 4 March 2010 on the infrastructure of spatial information, in which he was replaced by the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. IT, administration as responsible for coordinating the establishment, maintenance and development of spatial information infrastructures has been designated as the Minister responsible for Spatial Information. It's computerization. The argument in favour of this solution is that the infrastructure for spatial information understood as the spatial data sets described by the methods, as well as their services and technical measures, processes, procedures used and made available by the relevant authorities are relevant to the scope of the minister responsible for the operation. IT, i.e. with the computerisation of public administrations and bodies performing public tasks, with systems, ICT networks of public administrations, supporting investment in information technology, the development of electronic services. Consequently, according to the project, in place of the existing geoportal of spatial information infrastructure of the main surveyor of the country, the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs was appointed. information provision in the performance of infrastructure tasks in the field of spatial information. I request that the House accept the further work of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u522	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzońc will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u523	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to refer to the presentation presented by the Minister, which was very detailed. Of course, the project was agreed as a result of an exchange of positions and comments between the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Ministry of Digitisation, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, the main surveyor of the country and the Government Legislation Centre. All parties agreed on the proposed changes, which resulted in the project being presented. The project provides for the introduction of semantic changes replacing the wording of the Ministry of Home Affairs used in the appropriate number and, where appropriate, the words of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration. In the case of the Act of 30 May 1996 on the remuneration of the former President of the Republic of Poland, the name of the Minister of Home Affairs shall be replaced by the wording of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. internal. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, we support the proposal and the submission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u524	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u525	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position on the government project in connection with the definition of the President of the Council of Ministers' regulation of 17 November 2015 - the detailed scope of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration's operation and the creation of the Minister of Ministers' regulation of 20 November 2015 - the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration through the transformation of the former Ministry of Home Affairs. It is therefore necessary to amend the names of the entities to which the Minister responsible has so far been responsible. internal, i.e. The State Sanitary Inspection, the Ministry of the Interior and the Board of Housing Resources of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as well as the separation from geodesia and cartography issues related to the infrastructure of spatial information and the submission of these matters to the Minister responsible for. IT. As has already been said by representatives of the Ministry, it is a purely technical law, it changes the names. The Civic Platform Club supports this project, it is not subject to European notification, and we do not see any significant flaws in this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u526	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masławski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u527	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On a government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, where the project concerns the updating of the names of individuals previously subordinate to the Minister of Home Affairs, and now the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, i.e. The State Sanitary Inspection, the Ministry of the Interior and the Board of Housing Resources of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as well as the separation and assignment of matters relating to the infrastructure of spatial information from geodesy and cartography issues to the Ministry of Interior. I inform you that Kukiz15 supports this bill and raises no objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u528	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u529	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, a project included in print no. 930. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, as the Government states in the explanatory memorandum, is the result of the creation in 2015. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration in place of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the definition of the specific scope of the operation of the Minister. It's another project of this kind. We understand that ordering can continue, after all, as a result of the staff carousel, many incomplete people were sent to the administration, but with each such act we are getting more and more sure that no one controls these changes. We could adopt one comprehensive law containing all the necessary changes, and we are proceeding with one competence bill after the other and instead of dealing with citizens' problems, we are dealing with laws ordering the administration of the PiS. This does not give the best testimony to the current government, but this is a change that can be seen. It should be noted, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the detailed provisions contained in the submission, that a number of them concern a simple change of name to those resulting from the regulations of the President of the Council of Ministers of November 2015, i.e. to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. These changes will be made in a number of legal acts. It is understandable, however, that the High House has already examined changes in some of these laws during this term, and yet the applicants have not made a comprehensive review of them and have not made all reasonable proposals for changes, which seems to be a symptom of a deeper problem with the quality of legislation in Parliament at all. One of the changes I want to say more about is the amendment of the Act on the Plenipotence of the former President of the Republic of Poland. I understand that the intention of the government is to adapt the nomenclature, but I consider the possibility of changing the power of the former President to protect not only on the territory of the Republic of Poland. This solution has been used as a standard so far and it seems in the interest of our country to maintain this standard. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of changes in the submission concern the creation and maintenance of geoportal tasks and the coordination of the creation, maintenance and development of spatial information infrastructure. In this area, the Minister responsible for public administration will replace the Minister responsible for IT. The project also provides for a different division of competences between the latter minister and the country's main surveyor. Here we would expect the government to explain the reasons for this direction of change, because the justification of the law is particularly scarce in this matter. But what I'm trying to say is that we see some advantages in this solution. Unfortunately, as usual, PiS had to introduce personnel regulations. First of all, it's time for the Spatial Information Infrastructure Board. With effect from 1 January 2017, the current members of this Council shall cease to be members. We understand that there is a separation in the IT department of spatial information infrastructure issues, and - as I say - we see the advantages here, but that is not a reason to cancel the entire council. To be honest, I don't even know who's sitting there, but the mode brings to mind the changes known from the Seym literature, which is another jump to the stools. I don't know who the PiS is preparing there, but looking at a similar solution in the case of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission, I have no optimism. Unfortunately, the mechanism for getting rid of members of the civil service corps and employees, known from previous laws, has also been applied to employees in the main surveyor office of the country and the minister of infrastructure and construction. You're gonna throw another bunch of people out on the street again. If that's what you're gonna do, in a few months, you're gonna throw out all the competent people in our administration. The question is, who will cover for your Misiewicz then? I hope, however, that the PiS will withdraw from these unreasonable proposals during the work on the committee, which we will be working hard to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u530	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski will speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u531	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The organisational changes concerning the new division of competences between ministers and central authorities, including the new submission of organisational units subordinate to constitutional government administrations, are in fact forcing the alignment by law of the provisions which will stand for such subjection. This is what the Polish legal order requires. The draft Law of 5 October 2016 amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, introduced by the President of the Council of Ministers, meets these expectations. Indeed, the President of the Council of Ministers, by Regulation of 17 November 2015, detailed the scope of the operation of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, which is integral to the creation of a new entity, i.e. Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. It is clear and understandable that this must be combined with amendments to the laws which will in any way affect the work of the Minister and his office in the area for which he is responsible. The proposal submitted to the High House, and today in this Chamber, the proposal is to amend 13 laws. In addition, the proposal provides for amendments to the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act of 4 March 2010 to the Minister responsible for computerising tasks related to the creation and maintenance of the Spatial Information Infrastructure geoportal. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative process requires detailed, thorough and even analytical consideration of every provision in the laws so that the tasks set out in one law do not recur. The Minister in charge of the government administration must have clearly defined competences, responsibilities and responsibilities from which he will be accountable before the Sejm. This also translates into the proper functioning of the field administration. The Minister from this tribune presented the need and outlined the direction of the changes in the amended legislation of the statutory rank. Indeed, even a brief reading of the government's presentation does not raise much doubt in this regard. The time devoted to my speech greatly limits me to the need to repeat, including and quote, the titles of individual laws and their records. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am in favour of supporting the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u532	Thank you very much. One Member joined the question. Welcome to the question. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u533	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I'd like to ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u534	One minute, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u535	Yes, of course. I would ask you to clarify these issues relating to the management of the geoportal. What's the exact division of competence, who's gonna be responsible for what? I would also ask you to present in detail the reasons why such and not other changes have been presented by you to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u536	Thank you very much. There is only one question, but I understand that the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Sebastian Chwałek, will briefly answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u537	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with the provisions of this law, the portal will continue to be operated in the field of digital service by the Minister of Digitization and, as far as the substantive service is concerned, by the Minister of Infrastructure, so there is no hidden need here. There is a ministry dealing with issues of digitalisation, so all the systems that the State has are supported by the Ministry and detailed information on the division of competences is provided in the Act. I would just like, if I may, to correct the information that you have given, that we are removing workers on the occasion of this law. I suggest you read the article carefully. 20. All employees in accordance with the Act are transferred to the relevant institutions. So I'd suggest you don't say things like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u538	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, contained in print No 930, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 mins 21 hours 19 min 24]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of items 24 and 25 of the agenda: 24. First reading of the government draft law amending the law Penal Code (Print No 887). 25. First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Employment of Freedomless Persons (Print No 931). I ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice of Mr Patrick Jaki to present the reasons for the draft laws contained in the prints 887 and 931.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u539	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Seym! What's our problem? High Seym, we have a huge problem with the labour market, let's call it the labor market of prisoners. The problem arose with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2009, in which the Court ruled that prisoners had to be paid the same minimum rate as those accepted on the commercial market, resulting in the collapse of the labour market of prisoners almost 100%. I would like to say, High Sejm, that in most EU countries prisoners can be paid either 20% or 30% the lowest salary, which allows them to be competitive, while in Poland the Constitutional Tribunal found it to be 100% which caused such tragic consequences, from which from 2009 we cannot leave almost until today, and in Poland only more than 30% of prisoners work. High Seym! This generates various types of problems, above all the problem of increasing costs of living in prisons. At the moment, the cost of keeping a prisoner in Poland is a month for every citizen 3150 PLN, and this cost continues to increase. It is a consequence, High Sejm, among others. It's that the prisoners don't work for their living. In addition, I would like to stress that the lack of inmates' work is also related to the greater problems of the penitentiary units involved in maintaining the order with which the Prison Service is doing well, but yet the prisoner who works - this is empirically confirmed in the world - is a better prisoner, more complete if such a term can be used. In addition, there is another problem. A prisoner who doesn't work is primarily a prisoner who is less rehabilitated. And in this respect, too, the results are alarming, very weak. It turns out, High Sejm, that every other person who comes out of the penitentiary unit returns to it - every other person - and in our opinion this is the result, among others. That the prisoners don't work while they're in prison. It often happens that they do not have their own profession, they do not have a profession after they are released, but, more importantly, they have a huge amount of debt, a huge amount of debt that they cannot deal with, because because they do not work, also while serving time, these debts continue to grow. In most cases this is almost PLN 1 billion. These are maintenance debts. This also makes it impossible for such a person to find himself after being released from prison in a normal, free world, unable to find employment for himself, he simply needs to look for a gray area, because debt is so high, and that's because he couldn't find a job when he was serving time. Therefore, High Sejm, I will stress this once again, ending this thread. Here's the problem. Only over 30% prisoners, before we started this program, worked in Poland, while in most European Union countries - 50% , i.e. half of the inmates able to work is the standard, and there are countries that can boast more than 80% of the results, for example. Hungary, hiring prisoners. And we would like this percentage of prisoners' employment to change. Hence there is a program, hence there are two draft laws, which together consist of a government program of work for prisoners. What are the pillars of this program, High Sejm? The most important pillar of the programme is the project concerning the construction of halls, 40 halls, which are to be established in Poland within 7 years at the prisons. These are halls where regular production is to take place and where prisoners can work. The system would operate as follows. If the entrepreneur reports to the Central Prison Service Board that he would like to produce, and gives us a guarantee for many years for the employment of the convicted person, in return, he receives funding from us for the construction of the hall and 40% the monthly costs of the prisoner's employment, i.e. this is a very attractive offer. Besides, High Sejm, I would like to say that today the interest in the program is - I don't think I will exaggerate, if I say so - gigantic, i.e. FAZ, which is a professional activation fund, which is the place where you can apply with the intention of building halls, is no longer able to make up for these applications. In addition, we propose, High Sejm, an extension of the catalogue of entities that could employ prisoners. At the moment, this is practically exclusively the cleaning work for the local government unit, and we are significantly proposing to expand the catalogue of places where prisoners could work, among others. o municipal, district, all local government organizational units, commercial law companies, i.e. in practice it would mean, the High Sejm, that prisoners will be able to participate in the construction of waterworks, social housing, local roads, can be used for many works for which they could not be used so far. What is extremely important, we have also introduced a number of practical solutions, including mobilisations in the case of the Prison Service itself, but also institutions under the Prison Service, which are specifically targeted at increasing the employment of prisoners. This includes, among others, the following: on the fact that we keep a ranking list of prisons ourselves, if that can be called, which are best performing this programme and have the best results in terms of hiring prisoners. That's why we're doing this selection ourselves. We appreciate those directors of prisons who conduct creative policies, seek employment for prisoners, and pay attention to those who do not cope with this problem. At the same time, I would like to say, High Sejm, that as far as these practical actions are concerned, all the directors of the Prison Service District have been instructed to organise meetings with local entrepreneurs in their districts and to present the possibilities of this programme and the possibility of hiring prisoners. In addition, special meetings, press conferences, bilateral telephones were held in all districts, there were letters with organizations that group small, large, medium-sized entrepreneurs. And that's where we informed about the program. Therefore, so much interest in this program. A number of these actions, even before the adoption of the law, increased the percentage of prisoners working, the High Sejm, the most since 2009, even before we adopted this law, by 18%, i.e. these practical actions and this large mobilisation, to change this, to produce results, to produce results. And what I'm saying is... Oh, what's still extremely important: What are we going to finance this hall construction program, this business relief and discount scheme? We will finance this, first of all, from the work of the prisoners themselves, from which we will increase the deduction from 25% to 45%, but we will also finance it by restructuring the way the funds have been allocated so far, including. from the Fund for the Help of the Wounded and Post-Penitentiary Assistance. Among other things, we have identified that the funds used to date for the training provided by the Prison Service were inefficient, simply did not help, did not rehabilitate in an appropriate way, as evidenced by the statistics I gave you. These measures are being taken and transferred to the new innovative program And to conclude, High Sejm: this is a program that we consider necessary. It is also an element that is, it could be said, a function of the state, a function that fulfils this justice, because, from a social point of view, it is difficult for the state to accept that the cost of living prisoners is increasing. Often they are greater than what we use for - see today's example - people with disabilities, and these prisoners do not work. We hold prisoners, often called prisoners. Hard criminals, and they don't even work. This program is about to change this state of affairs. Not even so much change - he's already changing it. I am convinced that when we introduce it, we will be able, despite the difficult judgment of the Constitutional Court, to change completely the vectors and to make people feel that the State can enforce justice in this sensitive area, neglected for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u540	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u541	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on two government projects: the Law on amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement Code and the Act on amending the Act on Employment of Freedomless Persons. The aim pursued by the Council of Ministers in preparing these projects should be agreed. This is an increase in employment among prisoners in penitentiary units. Thus, both projects contribute to the implementation of the work programme of prisoners, which is notabene, Minister, we highly appreciate. It is true that work should be an important part of the execution of imprisonment, because it has a positive effect on both the sentenced and the order in the penitentiary units. The draft law on amending the law The Code of Criminal Enforcement is aimed, among others. to increase the financial capacity of the Convicted Professional Activation Fund and the Development of Incarceration Works by increasing the deduction for this purpose from the paid work. In turn, the draft law amending the Law on the Employment of Freedomless Persons leads to changes in the way in which the funds collected in the Fund are spent by increasing the lump sum available to entrepreneurs for the increased cost of employment of those deprived of freedom. At present, this lump sum amounts to 20% of the value of the salaries of people employed without freedom and, after the change, will be increased to 40% of the value of the remuneration. The adoption of both projects - and in particular the increase in the lump sum for entrepreneurs - will bring the costs currently borne by employers closer to those resulting from the rules in force in 2010 and thus in the period before the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was referred to by Minister Jak. The increased labour costs are currently not sufficiently compensated, which is the main reason why the low level of employment of convicted persons has persisted for several years. Reducing the labour costs of inmates increases the attractiveness of such work for entrepreneurs, which should translate into an increase in the employment of those deprived of freedom. For all these reasons, acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club will support further work on both draft laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u542	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. There's no envoy. Therefore, Mr Tomasz Jaskoła on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u543	Dear Marshal, Minister! For starters, as far as direction is concerned, I will say that of course it is very, very positive, especially since social perception is such that the cost of keeping prisoners is, of course, very high, much higher, as the Minister rightly pointed out, than e.g. in the case of day care or hospital stays. The Minister quoted the main assumptions. It's the Fund for Helping the Wounded and Post-Penitentiary Assistance and a 7 percent deduction, not a 10% deduction. The catalogue is indeed significantly extended: municipal companies, State Treasury companies or administrative establishments. Of course, there is also a possible role for the governor here, and it is about reporting the need for employment to the governor, which the Minister did not say. Ladies and gentlemen, it is of course very beneficial on the one hand, but on the other hand we must ask ourselves whether we are doing something legally or not. Since the law extends this scope of work free of charge, it is really in accordance with the article. 116 Penal Code implementing these people are basically committed to this work. In other words, they don't actually get - there's a pool of 90 hours - such a fee. Here are some comments. The question is whether companies of the Treasury or any entities that will benefit from... Isn't that gonna be a little competitive? But 90 hours is almost two weeks' work. Increasing the employment of prisoners should, of course, be considered appropriate, but please note that this is somewhat associated, at least to me, with some form of slavery. I was scared when the Minister said that we would be able to expand, that the Minister would say that even the Trans-Siberian Railway could be built, because that's where the prisoners were building. Of course, the cost of keeping prisoners is enormous, but I would like to ask, Minister, because you probably have this knowledge: How many civil suites have been brought against the Treasury over the last five years concerning small targets or too little space? Unfortunately, international law also obliges us to do so. Between 2008 and 2011, the honourable Minister and the applicant, unfortunately, the Treasury paid as much as 232 prisoners compensation. And we're paying again. I suspect that these 90 hours will be used to sue the State Treasury again, especially since unfortunately there is a legal basis for this. I say: unfortunately, because Poland is a member of the Council of Europe and we are based on art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 of the 1950 Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of Rome, which clearly states: "No one must be forced to provide forced or compulsory labour. Once again, I would like to stress that in a few years we will have these trials. The way, the direction is right, but you just have to think about doing better. A little of that, I'd say, populist. This can be done in a different way - the Danish model is presented in the proposal - but I also understand that it is actually a bit difficult to act in this regard by the Constitutional Tribunal. The position of the Kukiz club15 is as follows. Of course, we will support this project in order to help you solve this problem, so that the Treasury will not be charged under the Rome Convention and that the State will not pay compensation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u544	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, Mr Witold Zembaczyński will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u545	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I took part in the honor of presenting on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position regarding the government draft law amending the law of the Penal Code, contained in print No. 887. The changes proposed by the government in the Enforcement Penal Code extend the catalogue of entities for which the sentenced will provide unpaid work. This catalogue includes local self-government units, entities for which the local self-government body is the founding body, state or local authorities, and companies with the participation of the State Treasury or local self-government units. Modern supports all actions aimed at rehabilitating inmates. There is no doubt that work for society is one of the key factors in this process. However, we need to draw attention to the fact that the extension of the catalogue of entities for which work will be provided free of charge may lead to a significant imbalance between reality and the code rule that work should be remunerated and free work is an exception to this rule. This was also pointed out by the Constitutional Tribunal in its 1997 judgment. However, the analysis of the project leads to the conclusion that work will not be the right of inmates but their duty. It should also be noted that the Penal Code provides for a penalty for restricting freedom in the form of free controlled work for socially useful purposes - this is a kind of punishment. It is reasonable to ask: Is not the introduction of an obligation to do unpaid work for social purposes an additional ailment, a duplication of penalties or an interference in the catalogue of penalties from the Penal Code? The penalty in the form of a restriction of freedom in the form of socially useful works is ruled and imposed by the court, not by the legislator through the administration of the prison. An important aspect is also the percentage increase in wage reduction and its possible social impact, including inter alia. a real reduction in the repayment of fines or maintenance imposed by the court by reducing the motivation of the sentenced person to take up work. In view of the extremely positive impact of work on the process of rehabilitation of convicted persons, legislative work should be carried out to broaden the scope of work opportunities for convicted persons. Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club I propose that the project be referred to the committee responsible for further proceding, because we recognise that it is right for the direction and the values adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u546	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u547	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present our position on government draft laws: on amending the law Penal Code implementing and on amending the Act on Employment of Freedomless Persons. The main objective of the legislative amendments under discussion today is to increase employment among people in penitentiary units. The work undoubtedly has a positive impact on the process of rehabilitation of prisoners. Unfortunately, often inmates who want to work, so they express their desire to rehabilitate through work, do not have that possibility. The employment rate of prisoners in Poland is one of the lower in Europe. In Western European countries it reaches 60%. In our country, according to the Ministry of Justice, this rate has increased since the beginning of 2016 from 35% to 42%, currently working almost 28 thousand. Inmates. In accordance with the current wording of the Implementing Penal Code, no remuneration shall be payable for the cleaning and auxiliary work carried out in favour of the Prison Service's organisational units or for the cleaning work for the benefit of the local government of up to 90 hours per month. After the planned amendment, this provision is to be supplemented, inter alia. about work for social purposes for entities for which the authority of the municipality, district or voivodship is the body of the founding, state or local organisational units and companies governed by commercial law with the exclusive participation of the State Treasury, the municipality, the district or the voivodship. Social work will also be possible for institutions or organisations representing the local community and educational institutions, youth educational centres, youth sociotherapy centres, medicinal entities within the meaning of the provisions on medical activities, social assistance organizational units, foundations, associations and other institutions or public utility organisations providing charitable assistance. This means significantly increasing the number of entities for which prisoners could carry out work free of charge. As the Supreme Court states in its opinion to the project, the proposed change may contribute to increasing the possibility for the inmates to take up work. In turn, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights estimates that the proposal is a step towards rejecting the code rule, according to which the employment of inmates is paid. As she recalled, now only 40% Inmates shall carry out work of a paid nature. At this point, we should ask whether we should also look for solutions to increase the ability of prisoners to take paid work instead of merely expanding the number of persons entitled to work free of charge. An attempt to respond to this challenge is to increase the financial capacity of the Convicted Professional Activation Fund and the Industrial Development of Labor Works by increasing from 25% to 45% deductions for this purpose from the remuneration of the convicted person. At the same time with 10% up to 7% the reduction of deductions from this remuneration for the harmed and Post-Penitentiary Assistance Fund. Released in this way 3% remuneration is intended to be used for the professional activation of persons deprived of freedom. This solution should encourage businesses to employ the convicted more than they have done so far. The additional funds of the fund are also intended to be used for the construction of production infrastructure in the penitentiary units. Doubts about reducing prisoners' wages should be solved by international statistics. Poland as one of the few countries currently offers 100% of residents minimum wage for work, while in France or the UK it is 44%, while in Sweden and Hungary it is about 1/3 of the minimum wage. A higher deduction to the Professional Activation Fund will leave the wages of prisoners at an even higher level in relation to the minimum wage than in those countries. In the opinion of our club, the projects discussed today will increase the number of prisoners working for the benefit of themselves, as well as those entitled to work in prison. The project should also have a positive impact on the costs of maintaining the penitentiary system in Poland. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of sending the submitted draft to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u548	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u549	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The two draft laws presented aim to increase employment in establishments among those deprived of freedom. In recent years, people employed in closed facilities work less in prisons than they did a number of years ago. What affected it? He influenced it, among other things. the judgment of the Constitutional Court which decided in 2010 that the minimum wage in prison should be as much as the minimum wage outside the prison. However, this decision of the Constitutional Tribunal, based on humanitarian considerations, has led to the fact that the attractiveness of prisoners' work to commercial enterprises has decreased significantly. While more than 2/3 of the prisoners employed were paid in 2010, only 40% in 2015 It worked for a fee. This figure, in general terms, decreased from 17,000. to 10,000, while the number of employees increased greatly free of charge - from 8 000. Up to 14,000. Both the Council of Europe and the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, as well as various studies indicate that working in prison is useful and useful. It sustains the prisoner's ability to earn, to work systematically. Also psychologically, it works well for him, because he has a variety of lives. He does not have to spend 23 of 24 hours in a cell where he has several meters at his disposal, often below even the statutory 3 m. It works against social exclusion, finally allowing the prisoner to pay for some of his own needs, to have the resources for his own needs, to pay off his obligations or to help his family. The proposals presented here aim to increase the funds that will be deducted from prisoners' wages into the prison activation fund, which in particular allows for a lump sum return for the entrepreneur who employs the prisoner, as well as for the construction of, for example. Some halls where prisoners could work, or training prisoners. This involves a certain danger, namely whether we can reduce the minimum wage in this way, because it is actually below the minimum wage. In this case, and in the explanatory memorandum of the Constitutional Court, and in other materials, the answer is that the minimum wage outside prison is intended to ensure minimum living conditions, while in prison prison the prison has these minimum conditions, which is more than just a minimum wage which is already paid by the State. Therefore, such deductions, all the more for the professional activation of other prisoners, seem justified. At the same time, this law extends the scope of free work. Until now, work free of charge could only be carried out in order, within the context of the needs of the prison or for the local government. This extends here to any actually state-owned facilities, including commercial law companies owned by the State Treasury. So we're starting to get quite dangerously close to a certain boundary, I'd say, slave labor, forced labor. It will be possible to hire prisoners. free of charge e.g. for works in state mines, if there is 100% state capital there. Here, we would already enter the area, I would say, contrary to the recommendations of international conventions, so I think that this issue should be carefully looked at so that this extension of free work does not violate the prohibition of slave labour and actually falls within the framework of non-commercial works, not for profit, but for the public good, for public purposes in fact. The sum of these deductions currently exceeds 50%. There is another proposal to consider, however, whether it may not go down at least below this psychological limit of 50%, e.g. so that the activation fund does not deduct 45% , but maybe 40%, then we could fit together in these deductions, below half of them would be those deductions. Finally, for the work of a free prisoner, he may expect some reward. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the form of passes, more sightseeing. But shouldn't this be categorized in some way so that we can determine more or less what we can do with this money? The Civic Platform, which itself supported such solutions, prepared some proposals in this area...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u550	Thank you very much, sir, you have run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u551	...will be in favour of sending it to the committee for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u552	Małgorzata Zwierzan will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u553	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on the Employment of Freedomless Persons and the Law on Criminal Enforcement Code. As the projectors rightly point out, taking up work by convicts and prisoners in penitentiary units is the most effective form of their rehabilitation, since it facilitates the return to life at large and contributes to the reduction of the likelihood of recidivism in some prisoners by maintaining work-related habits, such as punctuality and systemicity. Aware of the positive impact of the work on inmates both during and after the penalty, applicants took a number of measures to increase employment among those deprived of freedom. According to the guidelines of the projectors, the employment of convicted persons decreased significantly after the increase in their remuneration, which was dictated by the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2010, ordering them to be set at the level of the statutory minimum wage. Since then, despite the introduction of a number of mechanisms to counter the downward trend in convicted employment, the level of this employment has still not reached the pre-2010 ceiling and is still far from that ceiling. It is therefore considered necessary to step up efforts to increase the level of employment among persons in penitentiary units. The amendment of the Law provides for changes in the Penal Code which extends the scope of work carried out by convicted persons free of charge, increases the amount of the deduction paid to the occupational activation fund and the development of incarceration establishments from 25% to 45% the remuneration of the sentenced person and the reduction from 10% to 7% of the part of the remuneration of the sentenced person transferred to the Fund for the Victims and Post-Penitentiary Assistance. Projectors predict that these regulations will significantly contribute to the achievement of the main objective of the amendment. Increasing the financial capacity of the Convicted Professional Activation Fund and the Development of Incarceration Works will increase the number of paid jobs for inmates and thus increase the number of inmates earning to cover the financial penalties and maintenance imposed on them. The reduction of deductions to the Fund for Hurted Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance should have the same effect. In addition, broadening the scope of the work carried out by convicted persons free of charge by creating more posts will enable them to take up the work of convicted persons who are currently unable to do so. The amendment of the Law on the Employment of Freedomless Persons provides for the establishment of a lump sum for entrepreneurs for increased employment costs for those deprived of freedom at 40%. the value of the remuneration, which is an increase compared to the current lump sum by 20%. I share the opinion of the designers that increasing the attractiveness of the employment of penitentiaries, among others. by bringing the employer's costs closer to those before 2010, it will have a positive impact on the employment rate of inmates. In view of the positive impact of the employment of penitentiaries on their lives and the limited financial capacity to provide them with paid work, I accept the arguments of the applicants and the validity of the solutions they propose. The Free and Solidarni Circle is in favour of further proceedings of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u554	Thank you very much. Six ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of people who've been saved for questions. I'm setting time for a question for one minute. She will be the first to ask the question of Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u555	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For many years, public opinion has been appalled by the height of the prisoner's maintenance. The cost of keeping the prisoner in Poland is estimated at more than 3,000. zł. What part of this cost is the prison service's salary? What is the cost of one day's food for the prisoner, and what percentage of prisoners currently work free of charge? Because prisoners are mostly employed for free, they clean, cook, make repairs in prisons - it's an important part of rehabilitation, but also a way to reduce the cost of living the prisoner. Paying a job is a privilege for a prisoner. I don't have time anymore, so I'm just gonna ask you a question. Of course, it's about the canteens and the prisoners' notes. Prisoners complain they're in these stores. [[♪ The bell ♪]] very high prices and when they get very little money...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u556	Thank you, Member. The question you are asking is...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u557	...they can't buy cleaning supplies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u558	... Marcin Święcicki from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u559	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The draft law also provides for an extension of the possibility of free work to public or local organisational units, the local government, but also to companies governed by commercial law with the exclusive participation of the State Treasury or the commune, district or voivodeship, i.e. companies governed by commercial law, thus purely commercial organizations. Do we here, Minister, simply run into conflict with International Labour Organisation Convention No 29 on Forced or Compulsory Labour, which says that work or services cannot lead to the fact that a person hired to do this job or put in charge of any other individuals will be doing free, commercial work for the benefit of the individuals who do the work for profit for commercial purposes? What else is work in favour of local government units, hospices and prison itself, some other units, schools, is about renovating schools, something like that, or for individuals that don't work for profit, and what else is working in a mine or in some other plant, which is a company of commercial law, although it has up to 100% State or local government property, but it's profit-oriented. Aren't we going to go against international conventions here, or isn't that dangerous? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is your assessment of this situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u560	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u561	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is addressed to the Minister. It's about the content of the article. 123a, on the basis of which convicted persons can carry out the work of order, auxiliary, but also for social purposes, for companies governed by commercial law, but there is such a reservation that only with the participation of the State Treasury or the municipality, district or voivodship. In many of these companies there is a combination of shareholders, that there are also private shareholders, and this concerns the wider sphere of municipal economy. I have a question: have these provisions of the Act been consulted with the Joint Committee of Government and Local Government, as the circle of employers will certainly decrease, [[♪ The bell ♪]] if there is only such a record in this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u562	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u563	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, I wanted to include two questions in my speech. First: What is the estimate by the Ministry of Justice of the scale of growth, in numbers, of prisoners who will be able to find a job with these changes? Second question: What impact will the implementation of this programme have or the change made to this project for the state budget? The Minister didn't mention that. It is not easy to allow isolated prisoners to work. It's cost-effective. I witnessed a few years ago in one of the companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will be the cost of protecting and securing these people? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u564	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u565	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask: What will the distribution of the prisoner's wages look like? In the past, 1/2 was directed to the prisoner's maintenance obligations, 1/4 to the prisoner's account, and 1/4 to the prison. Where maintenance obligations did not exist, half was transferred to the prisoner's account and the other half to the prison. I wouldn't worry that refusing to work among prisoners could become a mass phenomenon. Employment organises time and provides funds to make current purchases in the prison canteen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u566	Thank you. The last question is asked by Mr Piotr Cieślinski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u567	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! These draft laws provide, on the one hand, for the extension of the catalogue of works carried out free of charge by prisoners, including in favour of e.g. companies of the State Treasury, and, on the other hand, when the prisoner works for a fee, provide for an increase in deductions from the remuneration for the Fund for Professional Activation of Convicted and the Development of Incarceration Works from 25 to 45%. However, the deduction for the Fund for Hurted Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance is reduced from only 10 to 7%. The Ministry of Justice, on the other hand, sets out the obligations imposed on approximately PLN 1100 million. In my view, the proposed changes are counterproductive, which is why I would like to ask two questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Like increasing the scope of free work...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u568	Unfortunately, you didn't have time to ask those questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u569	...you want to increase your income from the labor of prisoners? Mr. Marshal, one moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u570	Now the answer will be...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u571	How, by increasing the amount of deductions to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u572	The answer will be given by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Patrick Jak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u573	...as usual, Mr. Marshal, you don't let me finish...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u574	You've got to stay in time. I have to be fair in this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u575	But don't overdo it. About the letter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u576	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I answer questions and doubts that came from the platform. In the club's speech, Kukiz15 asked whether these proposals, especially for entrepreneurs, would not change competitiveness, free market etc. In our view, definitely not, and the best example, is that no entrepreneur protests, on the contrary, many ask - many entrepreneurs, including business associations, are very interested in the programme, and some entrepreneurs are even fighting for access to this program. In the Modern Club address, there was a doubt as to whether the obligation to work would be lawful and whether it is not an additional penalty that only the court has the right to impose an additional penalty and such doubts. We're already disbanding them, I mean. on the basis of the Penal Code already in force today, Article. 116 § 1 point 4... Penalty code says one of the prisoners' duties today is what? Work. So the prisoner already has a job to do today. The problem is that a large number of prisoners want to work at all, it is often that they report to the head of the institution - I am telling you about our practical experiences - but there is no such work. They say they'd like to work off some of the alimony, they'd like to be able to raise money for groceries in the canteen, but they don't have the option. Therefore, I am convinced that if this job were to be done, it would not even be necessary to introduce such an obligation, and that prisoners themselves would be willing to do the job. In the club's speech of the Polish People's Party, there was a question whether we should look for work for more than free work. I would like to declare to the High House that this is the priority, i.e. We are definitely doing everything we can to make the work pay, that's what this program is all about. We leave some opportunities to find employment for the prisoner also free of charge, only as an alternative, in case there is no paid work, but always paid work will have the highest priority. There was a question, doubts about the Civic Platform, also repeated when it comes to human rights, conventions, etc. Here I would like to quote the opinion of the Supreme Court, which says this: The proposed amendment does not make critical remarks. While it increases the potential scope of this obligation, it does not violate constitutional standards or international law in the context of prisoners' work. Questions. Mrs Krzywonos' question about the situation in the canteens. I would like to say to you that we have ordered constant price control in the canteens. There is a rule that they must not go beyond market conditions. The best proof that this works probably well is that there aren't any convictions, not a single one so far. Mr Matusiewicz's question is that if this bill could also be used for commercial purposes and in general for the operation of companies of the State Treasury... I would like to point out that we have thought about this in the project, which is why we stress that if we are talking about free work, it can in no case be commercial, it can only be social. That is why we have pointed this out precisely in the bill, so that there are no doubts that we share. Mr Paszyk asked about the costs you will incur in connection with this programme. I would like to say that you will bear no costs. For example, if the Member gives here an example of securing the work of prisoners outside the prison, it will, of course, be a cost that a private trader will have to bear if he chooses this form of employment. But once again, I stress that the priority for us will be the form of employment in prison halls, which will be part of a closed prison, which is why such costs will not arise on the part of the state. The question of Mrs Tomaszewska is what is the distribution of deductions. I stress that they will not change, i.e. The deduction now is 40%. , including alimony, and a deduction-free amount is 60%. Mr Cieślinski's question, which I have not heard entirely... [[Your marshal needs to be asked.]] ...but it was generally, I think, whether such a proportion of resources would make sense from the state's point of view. In our opinion, it will make sense. She already makes sense, because thanks to the fact that we've been able to increase it's employment, when we've put prisoners' work at a high priority - 17% We have managed to increase the employment of prisoners - for the first time since 2009 we have managed to stop the costs of keeping prisoners in prisons. [[Cost increase.]] For the first time, we have managed to maintain this because, thanks to the fact that the prisoners are working and some of the deductions are also going into the system, the prisoners are paying off their jobs. That's how we keep the prisoners, and that's how the prisoners keep themselves. This, I believe, should be a priority, and that is the purpose of this programme. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u577	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u578	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The judgment of the Court of 23 February 2010 led to a significant decrease in the number of prisoners employed. It is often not only a chance for them to earn money, but also a substitute for normal life, a way to rehabilitate and after they are released, a guarantee of easier adaptation, e.g. in the labour market. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister: Does the Ministry have a forecast at what time, in implementing the proposed law, will it be possible to increase the proportion of prisoners employed to the state before the court ruling?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u579	I'll get right to my question. The work of more inmates in favour of local governments is an opportunity to benefit both parties. However, I would like to ask, in recent years, what was the cost of work organised for the benefit of local authorities and whether the Ministry was aware of cases where the cost of organising work exceeded the value of the work carried out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u580	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement Code, contained in print No 887, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights with a recommendation to consult the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on the employment of deprived persons, contained in print No 931, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 26. of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft Maritime Equipment Act (Print No 951). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of Mr Paweł Brzezicki to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u581	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft Maritime Equipment Act aims to implement the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on marine equipment, while repealing Council Directive 96/98. The project contains many references to the Law of 13 April 2016 on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems, so its process could only start after the publication of the Act. The scope of the regulation of the draft law contains basically the same elements as those laid down in the existing Maritime Equipment Act implementing the Council Directive of 20 December 1996 on marine equipment. In view of a number of new developments in the maritime equipment market surveillance sector introduced by Directive 2014/90, such as the establishment of requirements for marine equipment by means of implementing acts of the European Commission, the codification of the obligations of economic operators, the modification of the rules governing situations where derogations from requirements are permitted and, above all, the adaptation of the sanction catalogue to the new concept contained in the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems, instead of amending the existing law, it is advisable to adopt a new law, as we kindly ask. The draft law lays down the rules for carrying out the conformity assessment of marine equipment, the obligations of economic operators, the rules and procedures for authorising conformity assessment bodies of marine equipment, and the manner in which those bodies are notified and the functioning of the maritime equipment market surveillance system. The method of marking marine equipment provided for in the draft law does not differ in substance from the existing rules. The manufacturer's obligations shall primarily concern the drawing up of technical documentation, the carrying out of the conformity assessment procedure, the drawing up of the EU declaration of conformity and the application to marine equipment of the conformity mark. The draft law also sets out the obligations of the importer and distributor. The project grants the directors of maritime offices the role of maritime equipment control bodies either ex officio or at the request of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. In this respect, the draft law makes extensive use of the system solutions contained in the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. As regards the catalogue of sanctions for non-compliance with the proposed law, a significant change has been introduced. So far it has been a criminal responsibility. In order to strengthen the action of the proposed law and thus protect consumers and the environment, administrative penalties imposed by decision are proposed. The system of penalties in the draft law was based on the solutions adopted in the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. Penalties will be imposed on an economic operator and their amount has been fixed in quota terms. The proposed law, depending on the act, sets a maximum penalty of 100,000. zł. Once the existing Maritime Equipment Act has been repealed, the existing implementing provisions under Article will apply to the type of marine equipment subject to conformity assessment procedures and to the list of international provisions containing requirements for marine equipment. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the repealed Maritime Equipment Act on Equipment Requirements - pending the entry into force of implementing acts adopted by the European Commission laying down such requirements. The proposed rules will not result in financial burdens on the state budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u582	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Janusz Śniadek will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u583	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft Law on Maritime Equipment, print No. 951. The draft shall lay down the rules for carrying out the conformity assessment of marine equipment, the obligations of economic operators, the rules and procedures for the authorisation of conformity assessment bodies of marine equipment and the manner in which those bodies are notified and the functioning of the maritime equipment market surveillance system. In addition to the elements existing in the existing Law of 20 April 2004 on marine equipment, the proposal contains new solutions provided for in Directive 2014/90, including the establishment of requirements for marine equipment directly by means of implementing acts of the European Commission and the inclusion in a single legal act of obligations of operators operating in the maritime equipment sector. The bodies carrying out the inspection of marine equipment, either ex officio or at the request of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, will be directors of maritime offices, as is currently the case. The draft law also standardises derogations from the applicable requirements for marine equipment in the event of specific cases, e.g. the use of new technologies, trials or assessments of marine equipment, the need to exchange marine equipment on board a vessel at a port of a third country, the lack of availability on the marine equipment market bearing a mark of conformity. Implementation in Polish law of current EU requirements will establish conditions for Polish manufacturers to manufacture marine equipment in accordance with applicable standards, improve supervision of notified bodies and allow them to conduct competitive activities in this field on the European Union market. The provisions of the draft law will also ensure that administrative authorities effectively carry out the tasks of market surveillance of marine equipment. The proposed rules will avoid imposing inadequate burdens and obligations on economic operators, notified bodies and government administrations in the maritime equipment sector and will not result in financial burdens on the state budget, as the Minister said. It should be pointed out that the economic sector in Poland, to which the provisions of the Act will apply, is about 60 manufacturers of marine equipment operating in our country as well as exporting their products in the European Union. Those operators shall produce emergency equipment, navigation equipment or fire-fighting equipment that is so important to ensure the safety of navigation and the protection of the marine environment. Thanks to the proposed regulations, shipbuilding operators and ship owners will have access to the production in Poland and meeting international standards of marine equipment. This will certainly contribute to the development of this sector by ensuring the conditions for the maritime equipment sector in our country on competitive terms, while guaranteeing the highest technical safety requirements for the production and subsequent operation of marine equipment products. Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that this project be directed to further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u584	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u585	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law provides for the introduction of rules for assessing the conformity of marine equipment and the obligations of its manufacturers. It should be noted that the project is of a technical nature and its aim is to ensure uniform application of rules relating to market surveillance of marine equipment by adapting Polish law to European Union legislation. The adaptation of national law to Community law in this respect will create conditions for Polish producers to produce marine equipment in accordance with applicable standards and will enable them to operate competitively on the European Union market. It is worth adding that the implementation of these provisions, which are included in the draft, will enable administrative authorities to effectively carry out market surveillance tasks on the production of marine equipment. The provisions referred to in this draft law shall apply to marine equipment which is placed on ships of the European Union by which vessels flying the flag of Member States are meant. The essential part of the draft law sets out the obligations of economic operators in the manufacture of marine equipment: manufacturer, authorised representative, importer and distributor. The relevant provisions of this project shall be those which standardise derogations from the applicable requirements for equipment in specific situations such as the use of new innovative technologies, the testing or evaluation of such equipment and the need to replace it on board at a port of a third country. The bill was, according to the information we received, submitted for public consultation and was sent to 21 entities, of which the replies were provided by four entities and, importantly, most of these comments were taken into account. In view of the fact that the proposed law is typically technical in nature and its purpose is to bring national legislation into line with European legislation, the Civic Platform Club will support the draft Maritime Equipment Act. At the same time, on the occasion, I would like to ask the Minister two questions. The first of these concerns the consultations that I mentioned. Did the producers of marine equipment, those 60 that Mr Śniadek mentioned, also take part in this consultation? Because according to the information that has been provided, it's hard to see there are so many of these representatives. That's one thing. Secondly, this draft law shows that European legislation should be implemented by 18 September 2016, i.e. that they were not implemented in time, as the Minister said, among others. since the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance had to enter into force first, but as I recall, it entered into force in April this year, which is already nice a few months ago. Therefore, I wanted to ask why there was such a delay in this matter and whether, in connection with this delay, the government of the Republic of Poland could expect some sanctions from the EU authorities. I hope it doesn't. Thank you kindly. Once again, I stress that the Civic Platform will support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u586	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u587	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle on the governmental draft law on marine equipment. The draft Maritime Equipment Act aims to implement the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on marine equipment. There are not many changes to previous regulations. The proposed changes are mainly linked to new developments in the maritime equipment market surveillance sector, which result inter alia. the need to codify the obligations of operators, to modify the rules governing situations where derogations from requirements are permitted. An important change is the indication of the power for the European Commission to define requirements for marine equipment in implementing acts. To date, these requirements have been included in the Annex to the Directive of the Council of the European Union. The Act sets out the criteria to be met by notified bodies for carrying out the evaluation and maintains the obligation of the Minister responsible for maritime affairs to carry out inspections of those bodies at least every 2 years. The way of marking marine equipment has been left unchanged, but only the design of signs has been included in the bill itself. The Act sets out the manufacturer's obligations concerning, in particular, the drawing up of technical documentation of marine equipment, the carrying out of the conformity assessment procedure, the drawing up of the declaration of conformity of the European Union and the placing on the equipment of the marine conformity mark. The project under investigation for failure to comply with the provisions laid down by law provides for administrative penalties to be imposed by decision. The draft law sets out the methods for calculating the penalty, its maximum amount and the time limit for payment of the penalty. The limitation of penalties has also been regulated. It is important that Navy, Border Guard, Police and Customs vessels are excluded from the scope of this Act and its provisions apply only to other ships of the European Union. I am very pleased that the draft law has been consulted with more than 20 stakeholders whose comments have been partly taken into account in the draft. Due to the need to align Polish laws with European law, the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the law be further proceded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u588	Thank you very much. There are no questions at this point, but you are the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Mediterranean Shipping Paweł Brzezicki wants to answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u589	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I wanted to answer your questions. As far as public consultation is concerned, they have been carried out very widely and in particular among industry representative organisations, among others. in the National Chamber of Maritime Affairs, all shipping companies, but - most importantly - in the two institutions which at the moment certify our producers, i.e. in the Polish Register of Ships and in the Marine Technology Centre. The Marine Technology Center, which is that part of the military, we didn't touch it because the bill doesn't apply to it. We have therefore received a full spectrum of responses and we believe that we have looked very well at the issues of public consultation, our producers. If you are talking about delay, then yes, there will be no penalties from the European Commission, and we do not think that this is a delay, because we could not really start working on the bill until the second half of April, in May, and the consultation process, both internal and inter-ministerial and social, and it takes about six months to write this law. It is a purely technical law, as you mentioned, quite complicated and must be very precise. So here you can't afford any kind of freedom. I think I've satisfied you. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u590	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u591	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The legislative plan was to ensure that administrative authorities effectively carry out market surveillance tasks on marine equipment. The proposed legislation was intended to avoid imposing inadequate burdens and obligations on economic operators, notified bodies and government administrations in the maritime equipment sector. It also appears that the intention was to obtain authorisation to place equipment on board the flag of an EU Member State. This authorisation applies to those products which, under the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, must be recognised by the flag. It shall constitute an Article. 3 (1) (a) 3. If we were to produce equipment in Poland, we would apply for permission in Poland. As for this record, there are no and there should be no objections. Elements that you can object to are e.g. the fact that the Act clearly does not specify the requirements of language documentation in Polish and English. It may be felt that each manufacturer applying for authorisation should prepare the dossier in all the languages of the EU Member States. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 9 we read that the manufacturer ensures that the EU declaration of conformity is drawn up in Polish and English. Where marine equipment is placed on board, a copy of the EU declaration of conformity in the Polish and English languages shall be kept on board the vessel until the marine equipment concerned has been removed from the ship. From the above it can be interpreted that, regardless of the Member State where the authorisation is obtained, the Polish language version is also in force. Also in the article. 11 we read that the manufacturer joins the marine equipment, drawn up in Polish and easily understandable for users, instructions and information concerning the safe installation of marine equipment on board the ship and its safe use, including information on possible operating restrictions, together with other documentation required in accordance with international regulations. Again, if this is to apply to equipment authorised in another EU country, it is difficult to organise instructions in Polish. In conclusion, if the interpretation of the law is such that permissions obtained in other countries are sufficient, and we may have documentation for them in English, there are no reservations from our point of view. If a Polish version is needed, it will be difficult and this will also be highlighted by the practitioners we have consulted by examining this document. With regard to the article. 16, you can say that all consent is always troublesome. In practice, there is no time to wait for an administrative decision, which, as we well know, never lasts for a short time when a ship can be stopped by a PSC type control body. Therefore, if the device or equipment is authorised for use by the port/state administration, temporary authorisation should be granted for its use and then an organisation authorised in the EU/Poland could give an authorisation certificate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u592	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! The proposed law will ensure uniform application of market surveillance rules on marine equipment. The project is technical in nature - it adapts Polish law to European Union legislation. The draft law sets out the rules for carrying out the conformity assessment of marine equipment and the obligations of its manufacturers. The rules and procedures for the authorisation of conformity assessment bodies for marine equipment and the manner in which they are notified and the functioning of the market surveillance system for marine equipment are indicated. Implementation in Polish law of current EU requirements will create conditions for Polish manufacturers to produce marine equipment in accordance with applicable standards and allow them to conduct competitive activities on the European Union market. Supervision of notified bodies will also improve. The solutions contained in the draft law will ensure that administrative authorities effectively carry out the tasks of market surveillance of marine equipment. The proposed rules will avoid imposing inadequate burdens and obligations on economic operators, notified bodies and government administrations in the maritime equipment sector. The proposed provisions will replace the existing Law of 20 April 2004 on marine equipment. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of referring the project to the relevant committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u593	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal for a Maritime Equipment Act, hereinafter referred to as "the draft law', aims to implement the provisions of Directive 2014/90/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on marine equipment and repealing Council Directive 96/98/EC, hereinafter referred to as "Directive 2014/90'. The scope of the regulation of the draft law contains essentially the same elements as those laid down in the existing Maritime Equipment Act implementing the previous Directive, i.e. Council Directive 96/98/EC of 20 December 1996 on marine equipment. The draft law refers to the Law of 13 April 2016 on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems, which was constructed in a similar way to the previous reference to the Law on conformity assessment. In recent years, among others, it has been introduced. by means of implementing acts of the European Commission, a number of new solutions in the maritime equipment market surveillance sector introduced by Directive 2014/90 (setting requirements for marine equipment by way of a codification of the obligations of economic operators, modifying the rules governing situations where derogations from requirements are permitted) and, above all, the catalogue of sanctions has been adapted to the new concept contained in the Law on Conformity Assessment and Market Surveillance Systems. It is therefore appropriate to adopt a new law instead of amending the existing law. According to Art. 2 The proposed law applies to marine equipment which is placed or intended to be placed on EU vessels, while vessels of the Navy, Border Guard, Police and Customs are excluded from its scope. Scope of definitions set out in Article. In principle, 3 of the draft law does not differ from the definitions contained in the existing Maritime Equipment Act. It also replicates a number of other solutions that are contained in the current law. An important novelty compared to existing regulations is the power for the European Commission to define such requirements in implementing acts (signed in Article). 36 draft law). To date, these requirements have been included in the implementing acts. The situation with Article is similar. 6 a draft law which states the obligation for a notified body to carry out conformity assessment procedures, which are detailed in Annex 2 to the proposed law (so far the conformity assessment procedures were annexed to the Regulation on requirements for marine equipment). With regard to the inspection of notified bodies, the obligation of the Minister responsible for maritime affairs to carry out checks on those bodies has been maintained at least every two years. A novelty - introduced by Directive 2014/90 - is the possibility for a representative of the European Commission to take part in such an inspection as an observer. An important novelty resulting from the content of the article. The 9th draft law is to specify the model for the EU declaration of conformity by reference to Annex 3. Further articles in their essence duplicate the existing regulations. However, a novelty is the fact taken into account in Article. 18 a draft law allowing the placing on a ship of marine equipment without a mark of conformity in the absence of availability on the market of the equipment which has such a marking. A major change has been introduced in the field of sanctions - the existing legal status provides for criminal liability for breach of the obligations set out in the Maritime Equipment Act. In order to strengthen the action of the proposed law (consumer and environmental protection), administrative penalties imposed by decision are proposed. Penalties will be imposed on the operator up to PLN 100,000 depending on the act. When determining the amount of fines, the Director of the Maritime Authority will take into account the degree and circumstances of the infringement of the provisions of the Act, the number of marine equipment not complying with the requirements put on the market, put into service or made available on the market, the prior infringement of the provisions of the Act and the cooperation with the market surveillance authority. It was also possible for the Authority to waive the penalty if the economic operator provides evidence of corrective action. The implementing rules adopted so far pursuant to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the repealed legislation on requirements for marine equipment is to apply until the entry into force of the implementing acts adopted by the European Commission laying down such requirements. The short deadline for entry into force of the Act (after 14 days from the date of publication) is due to the need for urgent implementation of Directive 2014/90/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on marine equipment and repealing Council Directive 96/98/EC, which expired on 18 September 2016. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u594	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on maritime equipment contained in print No. 951 to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Marshal of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 29 November 2016. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law on amending the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws (print No 936). I ask Senator Jan Rulewski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u595	Mr. Marshal! The Messengers and Members! In September of this year, the Senate adopted a resolution on bringing a draft law on the amendment of the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition and persons repressed and other laws to the Marshal's Sejm of Poland. I express my respect to the Marshal, the Senate Bureau, that in September, when the project came in, he was in the sitting room only a few weeks later and I can therefore present his features. When I say, the Senate, I think of all those senators who have worked in agreement on the draft resolution and have taken it, with only one abstention, to do so. Thus, at least two groups, i.e. parliamentary clubs of Senators PiS and PO, worked in concert. The question may arise from this Chamber as to why, after just three quarters of the functioning of the Act, which was passed in the previous term and entered into force in August 2015, we are proceeding with its amendment, and I will say more: a profound amendment. Firstly, we promised this to the public, especially to the representatives of these organisations from the path of freedom, which at the time of the creation of that law did not agree to its final form. Secondly, it was the commitment of the senators, which today, it seems, when we present this project, we have realized. But more important than these obligations, often honorary, because the project was also signed by opposition activists from that period, which should not be regarded as lobbying, regardless of that, was the verification of the existing act of the law, although in a short time, but quite symptomatic. It turned out that in the course of almost a year of operation of this law only a small group of people among tens of thousands of oppressed, persecuted or belonging to the anti-communist opposition gained powers under this law, both material and honorary, because this was the subject of the law. Today he will commemorate both this promise, but also meeting the principle of justice, the principle of special care for those who fight for independence, as enshrined in the article. 19 of the Constitution, I present the main thoughts, the main solutions to this law. In general, it changes in material benefits the aid to an autonomous nature, as is the case with veterans and veterans. Of course, it maintains almost automatic recognition of all those who will gain the status of opposition activist or persecuted person. In view of the need for justice, these solutions do not go beyond the limits of these powers or even the privileges of veterans and veterans today. Thus, in this material witnessing, the amount of 400 zlotys is maintained, as is the value of pensions and pensions, which corresponds roughly to the amounts that are paid today by a large number of veterans and veterans. As with those backgrounds, the income criterion, which was previously set at 100%, is abolished. minimum pension, or - if it was a single person - 120% . The payment of the temporary benefit, from one year, and only in exceptional cases if the person obtained the retirement age of 67 years, has been eligible for this benefit for 5 years without the need to write new applications. The Senate has decided to resign from this quite harsh condition and it should be in the Senate's opinion if the High House confirms it with its verdict, abolished and will be paid for life and regardless of the status of the person, whether it is an employee, whether it is an unemployed person or a retired person or an invalid. Novum is also equal in terms of allowances in terms of public but national traffic reliefs: note - this does not apply to reduced travel by means of communication, I would say, local, i.e. the management board of local authorities. It also balances the status of these persons in terms of, but limited in fact, the possibility of receiving medical or pharmaceutical assistance out of order. It amends the existing formula for granting other aid by local authorities: from the formula it can grant it to the formula. This is important, especially since this record, which we thought would be a concern for people of the freedom route, will not only be a concern of the chief government, but also an important element of the Polish community, which is local governments, unfortunately it has proved to be very inefficient. Only a few cases could prove that... Self-governments - whether because of lack of proposals or lack of their own initiative - did not become involved in the process of eventually building a community in which they have rights, participation by people from the opposition or persecution. The law introduces, as with the combatants, the following thing: if these persons were arrested, were in prisons or other detention centres, the duration of their stay in these centres will be double. You could just, like, a little stop here, say, ask if it's too much authority. In fact, due to the passing of time, age does not mean that the pension or pension will increase. As a matter of fact, only an injury will be corrected in terms of time which has not so far been included in an internship to obtain an old-age pension. This was important in view of the fact that the border from which you could apply for pension was raised to 67 years - sometimes for these people just one year, two or even four years in prison were an obstacle to obtaining pension rights even when they were 67 years old. Thus, in this example, it can be shown that the glorious past was an obstacle to gaining equal rights, such as others had. Finally, such a seventh witness or active director of the veteran office - in general here I must mark his participation - is the witness resulting from the elimination of the gap created by the complex opposition activity, especially during the period of martial law. The Act speaks of persons who belonged to the opposition, and this is understood as a registered affiliation. The Act also speaks of the persecuted in the context of persecutions legitimized by acts of persecution. On the other hand, there was a group of people who worked underground in this spectrum of persecuted people, or actually for whom documentation was not collected. Yes, she literally worked in the underground if an undocumented employment relationship can be recognised when printing publications, colportaging these publications, accounting or collecting various material and technical resources for the functioning of opposition infrastructure, opposition infrastructure. This is not a dupe if you consider that 1,400 publications were published a month during the martial law period. If it were to be taken as the basis of the contemporary sieve technique or even duplicate technique, it would require work and action, and courage, and conspiracy measures of at least a few thousand people. Many of them have linked their professional destiny to this activity for many years, and for this reason not only have they been deprived of scoring pension rights or promotions, but most of all they have lost contact with their profession. And indeed later, in the difficult, complex reality of the state, the capitalist economy, hardly anyone noticed this fact. And it is this record, the small one, which gives the authority to the head of the veteran office, that in such cases he should apply to the President of the Council of Ministers for a special pension, completes the gap, gives something that was not in the previous law. The law, as I say, was subjected to dynamic observations or actions by the government as well. Standardizes e.g. certain arrangements are specified as regards the issuance of a card which will be issued at the same time as the status confirmation by the Office without the need to issue an application. It also extends the period considered as the period during which persecution took place until July 1990. This is consistent with what is written in the IPN. We had a crusade of the round table, and the facts indicate that the Security Service did not notice the fact that reality had changed and that at least limited democracy had arrived and continued to work. Other proposals put forward and adopted by the senators in particular lead to the establishment of a national consultative board with the head of the office for veterans, veterans and people repressed by the national council - so far there has been no such institution - a national consultative board as an advisory body, which will assist, advise the manager, and I think it will also work for the integration of these communities. Mr. Marshal, didn't I have a little chat? [[Voice from the room: That's what we think.]] The High Senate will not be offended if you discipline... [[Voice from the room: Poselska.]] I represent the senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u596	You're welcome to proceed with the conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u597	The scope of this Veteran Act is extended to include all those who have received their veteran title until 1963, but the rules of appointment of the head of office are very much changing. Until now, the head of office has been appointed on the basis of a competition call. This principle of competitive recruitment is ignored here and only the head, the minister responsible for combatants, is left alone. And a very important change, even, I would say, debatable, which I'm about to talk about. As you know, under the previous law consultative councils were appointed, which acted on the management boards of voivodships - in nine or even in more voivodships, probably already in dozens of voivodships such councils were established. The Act changes the subordinates - from marshal boards to voivodships offices. I think that in your questions you will possibly expand this subject, so I do not want to prejudice and I do not want to anticipate the Senate's position on this issue. Similar advice is also being made for combatants and veterans, which will also be subject to voivodeships. It's worth finishing up. And in the end, they usually talk about unpleasant things. Undoubtedly there will be an increase in these statutory criteria, so far planned and anticipated - although I can tell you honestly that this is not the precision of a high flight - expenditure will increase almost 3-fold and is expected to increase expenditure for the purposes of this law over the 10-year period to 784 600 000. zł. Thus, expenditure in relation to the currently planned will increase significantly, because the measures were envisaged primarily for 9 000 persecuted and opponents, and according to the project it is expected to extend this to 30 thousand, and thus a significant increase, also actually increasing other benefits. It's worth a little stop here. By comparison - and these are no longer estimates, and I think that gentlemen from the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and acting Minister Kasprzyk they will document - for today, or actually for yesterday, last year, as regards the planned reserve of PLN 30 million, it was spent, although for one quarter, about PLN 1.5 million, most of it absorbed organizational expenditure: for the execution of the medal, and this is for legitimacy, and this is for the organisation of other implementation activities. This year, until July, with an increase in the number of these recipients, expenditure was similar - 1,5 Million. I will also use this stop to say that it is not the result of bad dissemination or knowledge of the law, because it has its benevolent translation in the media, also in the case of opposition environments. I think there are obstacles to honorable nature. Many people, including very low incomes, account for their homeland as if in an individual way, still want to maintain their tribute to their homeland and, contrary to what I have encountered, do not present such proposals. So this is the information for all those who will question the amount of expenditure again. These expenditures are definitely, in my opinion, excessive. The project has been consulted very deeply and repeatedly. 16 organisations participated directly 2.3 times in the work. Of course, as I have already mentioned, there was an active role as head of the Veterans' Office. Ministers, especially the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, of course trade union organisations, especially the National Commission of the NSZZ However, honesty requires that it be noted that there is really no government position until today. And I would say with some regret that, as in the previous term of office, the previous government did not fully take a position either. Why am I talking about this? Because I believe that what will later be accompanied by my proposal is that this lack of a position causes delays in the work. The clear position of the government, which I think will be expressed on this issue, means a directive for the work of the committee and perhaps later the subcommittee. The opinions were not only positive, they were against them. First of all, there was almost a 100-percent settlement with the organisations concerned by this law. However, some local authorities reported the need to increase the expenditure on this and thus increase the subsidy. The other offices, as if they were holding back the final verdict or opinion. Finally, I'm just going to say what amendments have not been accepted by the Senate. It goes on, among other things. about the one which gave all those who, due to the opposition activity, but also the lack of income for today - because they do not have pensions, pensions or other social security - the automatic right to receive such benefits at least at a minimum by decision of the President of the Social Security Office. It was not accepted that an amendment concerning whether or not someone has this benefit - and I remind you that this benefit, or 400 PLN, could be the only benefit to the opponent and therefore does not even meet these biological minimum requirements - would at least receive a funeral allowance paid extra, that is, regardless of the insurance relationship. There was also an amendment that was going to some, I would say, maintain the status quo of the current advice, which was a state with considerable difficulty and with great delay arose in several voivodships and I think there was agreement on their functioning. It was in these amendments that these councils could still function for at least this term of office, until the voivodship took part in the appointment of new ones. Finally, it cannot be concealed that the Senate still, in fact, with the name "Solidarity," saw that apart from these fighters, warriors, opponents from the martial law period, and even if we go back, from 1956, there are veterans who have not been raising benefits for years, and the valorization was symbolic, sometimes it was about PLN 1,20. There is a proposal that all combatants in the framework of these measures, which remain, and others raise this addition by about 40 PLN. High Izbo! By introducing this bill, I also express my desire for the House to consider biological matters important, because, as I say, the Act speaks of the need to make amends to people who were being repressed as early as 1956. It's easy to calculate that they're 80 years old today. Next, the bill was unhappyly processed, especially during the previous Senate term. The senator was a witness and even a participant in this trial. We're running out of time. We must not remain in the position of atonement with this law, therefore, Mr. Marshal, I request that you, like when you applied the procedure, I would say normal, also apply it in the work of the appointed committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u598	Thank you very much, Senator. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Janusz Śniadek will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u599	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! What kind of country is it where heroes live in poverty and their oppressors get rich pensions? That's what the rapper Tadek was singing at the concert the other day. The young artist was primarily referring to the enchanted soldiers, but these words so truly and so strongly refer also to the victims of communist repression, to the people of "Solidarity." After 1989, a number of attempts were made to make amends, to help those who were repressed. Unfortunately, they were attempts to try, futile, without success. Treason gradually grew among these people. Question: "Did Poland betray them?" No, it's not Poland. They're elites, they're the people in charge of Poland who turned their backs on them. Maybe it's ironic that in the 1990s, in the time of AWS, when it was, I think, the most serious attempt to force such a bill, it was in the Senate, when one of the icons of Solidarity was headed by the Marshal, that law was blocked. In the context of the "Solidarity', real aid could be provided by the works committees. When the workplaces disappeared, the environments that could help those in need disappeared. At the turn of 1990 and 2000 we created a fund for helping those who were persecuted in war. We did, we thought, a lot of money for this fund. This only made us realize how great the scale of needs is and that this is a drop in the sea of these needs. It has made us aware that the relationship with its forces in no way is able to help them, that only from the state level can we really help these people. It happened that a law was passed last year, and today we are introducing an amendment to it. Senator Rulewski was just talking about that law, about how excessively carefully tightened criteria made this law really a minor regulation. New solutions have been introduced further. The question is whether the amount of PLN 400 is appropriate both to the needs of some of them and to, say, to make amends for what they have done in their lives. I'll say no. Because these calculations and data... I'll admit I'm looking at some of them with astonishment. Under this previous law, approximately 1386 people were identified as being repressed and meeting these criteria. Only 317 people were granted this benefit of PLN 400 and 360 were granted one-off aid. The estimated number, which was already raining here, was estimated at about 9 thousand. people, although in my opinion this figure should be much higher. In my opinion, the emergence of this bill on the initiative of the Senate is not just some form of rehabilitation of this House. First of all, this bill is not any compensation. or help those who are being repressed. This law primarily restores the dignity of Poland, makes Poland, the homeland does not turn away from its heroes, that it remembers them in a very symbolic dimension. Finally, after many years, we make this gesture. Let us restore the dignity of Poland. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I move that this bill be referred to further work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u600	Thank you. Mr Krzywonos-Strycharska will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u601	Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! The Senate's draft law amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and some other laws contains, in principle, positive provisions that correct the existing state of affairs, but also contains disturbing changes that this law is about to introduce. It is positive to correct the rules already in force that anti-communist opposition activists from the vending machine will receive an unlimited allowance, not for a period of usually one year and with many factors met. They will therefore be treated autonomously, not as if they were going to apply for social allowances. Communication, health, cultural, educational and housing facilities also have a positive reception. However, it should be pointed out that the introduction of facilities will be imposed on local authorities and there is no provision to provide additional funding for these purposes. According to the Act, the legitimacy and badge of the opposition activist will be granted ex officio after granting the status of opposition activist. This provision will eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy because opposition activists will not have to submit a separate proposal. It is only a pity that the Senate rejected with the votes of the Senators the offer of half of the benefit to the spouses after the death of the entitled person who often incurred the costs of the opposition activity of the husband or wife. However, the provisions concerning the election of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons are worrying. The Head will be appointed, in accordance with the proposed provisions, by the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister responsible for social security. Thus, the open competition selection is discontinued. The location of voivodship consultative councils on opposition activists and repressed persons is also doubtful. These councils are to act in accordance with the proposed regulations in front of the voivodships, not so far, on the management boards of voivodships. The above-mentioned solutions raise doubts as to whether the chief and council working at the voivodships will be 100% Apolitical and fair in their actions. To sum up, the proposed law is moving in the right direction on the solutions to help opposition activists in the field of aid and finance. However, there is great doubt as to whether all opposition activists will be treated equally, regardless of the political views currently presented, and whether it will not be so that the opponent will only be the one who shares the views of the current rulers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u602	Mr Jarosław Porwich, on behalf of the Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u603	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Almost all Poles who have not gotten into the communist system, in its introduction or preservation and behaviour have experienced its harmfulness. But the repression of the communist totalitarian system more strongly affected those directly involved in the fight against it. Traumatic experiences have marked their lives. Therefore, they expect various forms of help or compensation for the harm they have suffered. I am very pleased that these changes are being introduced, because this is what we brought to the Polish government in interpellation, in which we demanded the reaction of the state authorities to the difficult material situation of the anti-communist opposition activists, which also puts them in an uncomfortable social position in relation to former communist officials of the apparatus of repression flowing into material goods, as well as having unfair legal protection. By proceeding with the law on amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws, we are heading in the right direction. The Act introduces periodic cash benefits for activists of the communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons, allows you to apply for monetary assistance for the purchase of rehabilitation equipment, orthopaedic objects, payment of care aid, instruments facilitating work and life. It gives them the right to 51 percent relief for public transport on the basis of one-off tickets, and, which is particularly important in the Polish case, the right to health benefits without queues. It must be borne in mind that they are often elderly people who are severely ill because of the repression they have suffered. All these compensations are part of what President Andrzej Duda said about the cursed soldiers and the funeral of Inka and Zagończyk: this is a restoration of dignity to the Polish state. The anti-communist opposition activists receive powers similar to those of the combatants. This is undoubtedly a big tribute to the solidarity community. Formal changes are very important. The first concerns the extension of the period for granting the status of a politically repressed person or anti-communist opposition activist until 31 July 1990. This is not only justified by the date of termination of the Security Service, but also by the actual repressive actions, the most spectacular of which was the assassination of Fr. New Year's Eve of the Dead. And this is the second reason for extending the deadline by which the status of opposition activist was acquired: political reality of Poland after June 1989. It is also useful to assess how to organise and appoint the Council for the Affairs of Anti-Communist Opposition Activists and the People Repressed from Political Reasons as an advisory and advisory body. Similarly, it is necessary to assess the extension of the period of activity until 1963, i.e. the year of the death of Józef Franczak ps. Dolls. We know that the allocation of powers to a specific social group or the increase in the scope of the powers already granted is linked to the possibilities of the state budget, but these opportunities can be increased even by taking away unjustified privileges from those who fought against the anti-communist opposition. This is what we expect in the future from the State and the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. In conclusion, the Kukiz Club is in favour of passing this bill on to further legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u604	Thank you. Ms Joanna Augustynowska will now speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u605	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an important project to help anti-communist opposition activists. In principle, we have no doubt that we need to talk about it. Unfortunately, reading more government projects... [[Member of Bożen Borys-Szopa: This is a senate project.]] ...I begin to wonder how it is possible that over a quarter of a century since the overthrow of communism, after the scientific and social overwork of the subject, at a time when studies are completed by young Poles who did not survive in the Polish People's Republic for a single day, politicians, especially those thirsty heroic auras of true opponents, still obsessively return to the subject, inefficiently trying to capture a fragment of collective memory. And I wonder why this bill is really meant to serve. The proposed law is another example, let's call it a delicate, little sophisticated legislation. It is about getting a bearing effect, which will be easy to boast about, about pleasing another group, because it is not about historical justice. An insult to the activists of the anti-communist underground would be to call justice proposed in the bill of distribution. 400 PLN per month without verifying the income of the entitled person is the amount for the well-established person irrelevant and for the really needy insufficient. Therefore, it is not social assistance which should be justified, within the meaning of the State. The proposed method of granting this benefit does not conform to the standards for which the opponents fought has nothing to do with the modern welfare system. Nor is it likely to have much to do with constitutionality, although it is not in your custom to worry about such a problem. [[Voice from the hall: This is a senate project.]] He's senate, sir. We're gonna process it, we're gonna think about it. Unfortunately, this law also contains provisions that raise a lot of doubts. You want to introduce meaningless concepts into the law. You have not conducted any consultation or budget analysis, we have no vacathio legis provided. The rule of law is to win the next election without really thinking about the consequences. A complicated problem you're trying to... [[That's embarrassing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to the applicants, and I am pleased that you have such unity in the PiS. [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: We were not the ones who wrote.]] Whether it's the Senate or the PiS, you're trying to pursue one philosophy, but let me tell you my doubts. [[Voice from the room: Senator Jan Rulewski, opposition activist, is from the Platform. That's where he's sitting.]] [[Voice from the room: We are outraged.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the bill which concerns the granting of benefits, in my view, in the Modern Assessment, is not a way of dealing with social problems. That's one thing. [[I'd like you to finish your speech.]] Secondly, this is a law that really changes the rules of granting and appointing... This is an attempt to form a certain historical memory. Why should we suddenly give voivodships greater rights to award awards, to give functions, to decorate these people? Why do we want to do that? I just don't get it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame. Shame.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the hall: Disgrace. Shame.]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Mr Marshal, maybe you'll let me finish.]] [[Voice from the gym: Finish it now.]] [[Voice from the room: Finish it.]] [[We live in free Poland.]] I would like to have the opportunity to read, listen to the opponents, the people to whom this law is addressed. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: Well, it must be Rulewski.]] Because, in accordance with the real legislative procedure, we should listen to those interested in whether this law is worthy of them. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I was just listening to Mrs. Henryki Krzywonos, who experienced this... [[Bożen Borys-Szopa: Rulewski too.]] ...and she had legislative doubts about this bill. These doubts I would like to repeat. Thank you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Discreditation. Discredited.]] [[Voice from the room: Anti-values.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u606	Yeah, it's a sad speech, actually. Mr Krystian Jarubas will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. A, he provided a written statement. Mr Michał Kaminski, European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u607	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's a good thing this project came along. It's a good thing we're discussing it. It is impossible to disagree with all those who will say that such solutions are introduced too late, but the old Polish proverb says: Better late than never. I am a member of a small circle, but half of us four are prominent anti-communist opposition activists: Mr Stanisław Huskowski, Mr Stefan Niesiołowski. However, with all my great respect for my colleagues and other politicians sitting in this room, former, present, who, from the anti-communist opposition, entered free Poland and created this reality, often different among themselves, are people who in some sense took advantage of the opportunity after 1989. We can argue, some have used it better, others worse, but they have taken advantage of this opportunity, they have created our reality. Today I think of all those people who were often marked by sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, he very often featured those opposition activists, of which we do not read about in newspapers, whose history - about their names - is often silent, and these are people who very often paid the price of their personal happiness, often health, freedom, for us, younger Poles, a generation like mine - and without false modesty I can say that my generation's people belong to the beneficiaries of free Poland, to us this free Poland gave us an opportunity regardless of the choices we have made, I will repeat: better or worse - to have the chance to participate in economic life, political life, cultural freedom of Poland thanks to this huge tribute to the effort made by the oppositionists. That is why today we can discuss of course, and this is the role of Parliament, of concrete technical solutions, of arguing about how these solutions should be introduced, so that they are good, fair and that the Polish state honours these people. People who, I stress, acted at a time when courage was really very expensive, today this courage stood up, then the choice of opposition was a very often-meaning choice not only for those who made this choice, but often also for their families, their loved ones, and sometimes also for their neighbors or colleagues. That is why I think that regardless of the amount we are talking about today, and probably it is possible to talk about it, for many of these people will be important not only this specific amount, because they - and indeed many of them I know - not for money in free Poland risked their health, life and freedom, but only risked so that we could today, also me and people already much younger than me, and unfortunately they are more and more, just argue in a free country and in the free, elected by the citizens of the Sejm. Therefore, I think that it will be important for them not to have a specific amount, not a specific number of zeros in the account or in the money transferred, but to know that the Sejm of free Poland, the Polish state respected their efforts, respected this effort, which, as I say, was very often underestimated in specific cases. I have met many times people who have not even been able to express their regret that free Poland has mistreated them because they thought it would be unhonorable, because they did not fight for it, did not put up this huge effort and showed great courage to wait for the honors. Today, however, all the more so the privilege of acknowledging their efforts, and this honoring in one way or another by the Sejm belongs to them. Therefore, with all our heart, and with all our conviction that this is a good choice, we will vote as a circle for further proceding this law, because I will stress: the people through whom we are free today have great respect. These people today often enjoy the fruits of this freedom, very different in this Chamber and beyond, but regardless of who they are politically today, who they vote for and what their views are, I, as a representative of the generation who owes them freedom, bow down here today from this tribune before them and thank them for free Poland. That is why I will vote in favour of Poland honoring them with all my conviction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u608	Thank you. Turns out the Modern Club still has 40 seconds to use. [[Voice from the room: Pity.]] Please, Mr Paweł Pudłowski. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Not too long, please.]] That's right, we're counting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u609	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think that the sound of the previous speech on behalf of our club was about technical matters, but it is important to say how much we, young people or young people, are grateful to all those who fought for Poland, for free Poland, and in an unworthy way have not been appreciated in connection with what happened after this fight. So we are very much in favour of honoring these people to proceed over this bill. We have only pointed out that certain aspects of this law would perhaps require clarification, so that we would like to introduce it, but we thank you very much and we are with you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u610	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan on behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u611	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Dear Opposite Guests! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I have the honour to present a position on the Senate proposal for a law amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws. The Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons entered into force in the fourth quarter of 2015. The entire legislative process of the Act lasted for years and the final effect was far from preliminary intentions. Let me just remind you that the debate on the form of recognition by the state of the merits of those who act and fight for Poland's independence began in 2000, but then the tone of this debate was given by Gazet Wyborcza, in which Adam Michnik wrote: we are not veterans of solidarity and we do not need any help, because our environment has settled well. Here I think he told the truth, because the environment of the Wyborcza Gazeta was very well placed in the Third Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] The reasons and effects of this setting are well known, so I won't talk about it. However, the previous coalition and parliament did not change much their perception of those who fought the communist dictatorship. She could not agree to the proposals of the anti-communist opposition and the oppressed. The unilateral view of the authorities, the lack of sufficient reflection and research on the life situation of the members and activists of the anti-communist opposition, members of their families, as well as ordinary citizens subjected to repression, including material ones, has led Parliament to adopt a solution based on an over-precise rule. This is a delicate term because the current law limits the possibility of granting a benefit, as a rule, only for a period of one year, taking into account the relevant income thresholds. The benefits are social aid, without prejudice to any type of repression, including those not covered by compensation proceedings, e.g. under-retirement or wages. The proposed bill meets the expectations of some of the activists of the widely understood anti-communist opposition. In addition to changes in the granting of assistance to opposition activists and repressed persons, it amends the definition of the person being repressed, including those being repressed during the period from 1 January 1956 to 31 July 1990, and extends the definition of persons being repressed, stating that repression could also be classified. This applies, in particular, to persons who have been prevented from being promoted because of opposition activities and those who have been expelled from work. It is particularly important to abolish the social nature of aid to opposition activists and oppressed persons. The project provides for the autonomous nature of the benefit granted, as is included in the Veterans' Act. The amount of the benefit is not satisfactory, but the project is a form of recognition of the status of those who fought for free Poland, regardless of the threat of repression, which is also important at the moment. Finally, the Polish state begins to correct errors and fulfil its obligation to citizens. We are aware of the budget constraints and that the needs are enormous, but we must stress with all our power: the amount of the benefit is far too low. They'll still get fewer victims than their hangovers. I know that the regulation of this issue goes beyond the scope of this law, so I can only remind you here that people are still waiting for justice in this regard. Given the reservation raised here, but believing that this is not the last action for the benefit of these people and that in the near future, as soon as the funds are secured in the budget, the High House will not hesitate to express a meaningful thanks and recognition to the silent heroes, thanks to whom today we sit in the parliament of free Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Free and Solidarni Circle is in favour of adopting the proposed changes as soon as possible. Finally, on behalf of my colleagues and myself, I would like to express my special appreciation for all those who have spared no effort in fighting for free Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u612	Thank you very much, Member. Eight ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz Club15, asks the question first. There is no Member, Mr Jarosław Porwich, also a Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u613	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The bill is certainly not perfect, it is certainly possible to improve this project, it is certainly much better than the one that has worked so far, better than the solutions that have worked so far. Question for Senator Jan Rulewski. Is it true that only a fraction of the anti-communist opposition activists... [[Conscious.]] ...take advantage of the benefits of this bill that still exists today? Is it true that there are huge disparities between the pensions received by security officers, former security officers and anti-communist opposition activists? And now the question to the Members of Law and Justice as if outside the programme: Where is this law that you were talking about in June this year, which was aimed at reducing pensions, too high pensions for security officers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no bill, no bill, no bill. We as Kukiz will prepare this project by the end of the year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u614	The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u615	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs Augustynowska - she is not here - said that she would like to hear the voice of those who are the subject of this law. I think this voice is spreading here, also in this room, and often so. This voice was also the voice of Senator Rulewski. I just want to say two words on behalf of someone who hasn't lived to see this opportunity - my husband. I would just like - here I am addressing my fellow Members who have said that this law is a restoration of the dignity of Poland - so that on this occasion you do not trample on the dignity of those people who can no longer say that this is not another fight, who is a real opposition, who is untrue, who is due, who is not due, who is not due, so that we do not start another war. My appeal concerns such a climate of conversation, which was presented by Senator Rulewski, presenting this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u616	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u617	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. The 13th Act delegates tasks in the field of communication facilities, housing, cultural, health and education services to local authorities. In general, it seems right. Unfortunately, I have encountered cases of continued repression against democratic opposition activists until today, and that is often the case by local authorities. This applies to different parts of Poland, places such as Skierniewice and Upper Silesia, and results from the exercise of offices by people actively involved in the past on the side of the creators of martial law. These people often laugh in the nose of people who are in a very difficult situation, to a large extent due to their activities [[♪ The bell ♪]] during a period of martial law. How will this phenomenon be effectively addressed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u618	Thank you. And I ask you to ask Mr Jan Mosiński a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u619	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Augustynowska asked about the subject of this discussion. You're Senator Rulewski, you're Ewa Tomaszewska, my humble person, Jarosław Porwich, and probably a few more people here, sitting in this room. Young people are allowed a lot, but Mrs Augustynowska has crossed all limits, insulting those who cannot defend themselves here today after her speech. It smelled like, quote, a state-of-the-art prosecutor's speech. [[Applause]] That's how I take it. And even the powdering of this blazer by your Member does not change my assessment. Mr. Senator, time is running out for me, so I have a question: How many independence organizations could have contributed their comments to this bill and on what scale have they been adopted? Are you 100% , or 50% ? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u620	Thank you. And Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, please ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u621	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I would like to remind you that this parent law in its previous term of office in the Senate was proceded for 2 years, to be adopted on the 25th anniversary of the first democratic elections to the Senate, i.e. on 4 June 2014. It was passed only a year later. The amount of the pension was to be - as was the case in the Senate project - at the level of the lowest pension, i.e. 812 PLN gross. The Seym of the previous term changed it to 400 PLN. I have a question for the senator. Senator, according to the IPN, there's about 100,000. eligible persons. This law was used by 1386 people. Isn't that an insult to the dignity of the oppressed, especially in the context of [[♪ The bell ♪]] pensions of security officers above average wages in the economy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u622	Thank you. Before I ask Mr Bogusław Sonik, I would like to say that Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska informed me, and I would like to inform the High House that our deliberations are being listened to by ladies who have been interned and repressed in a state of war. I would like to greet them warmly and welcome them. [[Applause]] Thank you very much and I am already giving the floor to Mr Sonik. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u623	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, after so many years, we finally want to give some justice to these hundreds, thousands, and at the time of Solidarity, millions of people who contributed to the fact that today we have free Poland, and which, as has been said here, have paid for it with life, broken families, health, loss of work. None of those people who got involved expected any benefits on this occasion. Therefore, they look forward to honoring their actions and supporting them now that they are people who are slowly ending their professional activities. It's a good thing that this bill is being made, good that there's a shortened administrative path. There is a question for applicants to include employment guarantees for the last 5 years, employment for people before retirement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, because I see that Mrs Augustynowska is saddened by what has happened - don't worry, many more years of activity ahead of you and we will certainly hear Here's your beautiful performances. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u624	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u625	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for this initiative. She is of course necessary and I think she is also proof that in Poland you can honor people who have won freedom and think about them. Freedom is an absolute value, difficult to understand when it's gone, but when we have it, it's even harder to understand. It's a big challenge. The practice of freedom is a social, political, but also human challenge in the world. People who have suffered for their sins, people who have become the subject of repression, who have been interned - today you just have to bow your head to them and thank them very much and warmly. Mr President, you have been very critical of our message. She is a young person. And I think it's also... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let me just say two more sentences. It is also an expression of the looping of what we have in our reality today. So let's look for universal solutions, those values that are absolute and necessary for us. The freedom that Mr. Jan Rulewski and the people we have in mind... They're holy people. Let's remember that. Thank you very much for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u626	Thank you. We've exhausted the list of people who are written down for questions. I would like the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u627	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, as Senator Rulewski stated, there is no official position of the Council of Ministers regarding the Senate bill, but this is obviously not due to the negligence, delay or omission of the government, but to the need to assess the impact of the regulation. Representatives of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy have actively participated in the drafting of the bill. Together with the Head of the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed long before the formal referral of this project to the Sejm, we have endeavoured to assess the impact of the regulations proposed in this project. It was only after the end of September that such an impact assessment was possible. At the same time, after sending this project to the Sejm, we started working on the preparation of the official position of the Council of Ministers. So that at the moment I have only a draft of such a position prepared by the Ministry of Family, Work and Social Policy. According to the draft position of the Council of Ministers, the draft submitted by the Senate of the Republic of Poland meets the repeated demands of the communities representing former anti-communist opposition activists. We are particularly pleased that it departs from profit criteria when granting a cash benefit, which has so far been regarded as a solution causing the greatest controversy. In the project, we welcome the granting of powers to anti-communist opposition activists such as the right to reduced public transport or the right to receive healthcare services outside the order of order, which brings the powers of those repressed closer to the powers held by representatives of other combatant communities. It is also worth noting that, although the project grants opposition activists several powers also to combatants, the latter can still enjoy further progressive privileges, which we consider to be a good situation, because while both environments can enjoy the constitutional quality of the veterans fighting for independence, the conditions of this struggle, the threatening repression and the continuing threat of life should be a condition for a certain differentiation of the legal situation of the various veterans. So that in the conclusions of the draft official position of the Council of Ministers we propose that, in view of the assessment of the proposed regulations presented, further work be undertaken on the Senate bill amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u628	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the representative of Senator Jan Rulewski's applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u629	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I welcome the fact that the debate has exceeded, I think, the time frame which usually accompanies such laws, and that it has even triggered certain polemic elements, which is not news either, because also during the previous term there have been speeches that have profoundly changed the meaning of the draft resolution presented by the Senate at that time. It is clear that this law does not close, but opens the discussion, especially in the High House, on other solutions, it is a way forward. But it is also true that, as I said, this law does not go beyond certain limits, which so far, as Minister Zielenecki pointed out, are the Polish reality shown, among others. Veterans. This law measures the extent to which assistance can go, to bring not only arguments of material help, but also constitutionally ordered to the authorities, to all Polish authorities, to show respect and dignity. 400... There was a strong polemic voice and I thank you, among others. Mrs Augustynowska for introducing a very important element to the discussion - a generation that, as she said, did not live on a single day in a time of struggle for freedom. But thank you is limited in nature, because unfortunately, Madam, I must point out that you have not read until the end of the bill, the opinions around it, and, above all, what you said most, the impact assessments, the OSR. They are attached, calculated, although this is not an easy issue. This is not an easy issue, for example, because, unlike in your thesis, many opposition activists limit their demands for any requests for assistance, although they do not have high-end bank accounts, although they are not owners, as you might expect, of those factories they fought for - for their social or private character. Sometimes they're unemployed. But, as we have shown, and not only do we, it may be that today they do not have any pension rights because they were engaged in opposition activities. It's in the papers, and I suggest that you read it again. The combatant environments are also open for conversation. I think it's a good proposition of yours to talk to these people, as much as they've been underestimated or overestimated. I can only say that there was an initiative of sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, so that all the interned ones who, I think, also the entire Modern Club, including Mrs Augustynowska, a Member - I'm sorry, I won't abuse your name anymore - could say that to all the interns who have been severely deprived of their freedom, because the deadline for ending internship has not been set, President Lech Kaczyński has taken the initiative to grant compensation and settlement. Yes, Senator? And what did it turn out to be? That it was the Constitutional Tribunal that challenged this modest proposal - that not 21 thousand, as maximum, were foreseen, as compensation for the consequences of persecution. And it wasn't just about restricting freedom, it was sometimes about destroying property, taking the mermaid, the little guy who was carrying the flyers, the achievements of his entire life. The Court challenged this because it considered that this was unlawful and increased those amounts. Thus, it can be assumed that the combatant environments, and even the power that appeared on their behalf, were modest in expectations. Does 400 PLN solve the problem? No, it does not solve this problem, except for those fuses that are placed there, because it is not the purpose of this law to pay the bills for the fight for freedom, these accounts each carry out in his own conscience, but the purpose of the act is to secure minimum existential conditions. We believe, too, and probably such a model should apply in Poland, in solidarity, that not a state institution, not a state, but citizens, people should simply show on a daily basis, without a great law, without a holiday. [[Applause]] help those who have personally won the freedom they enjoy on a daily basis. Because Poland today is not just between Oder and Bug from Narvia, Poland goes further today because Poles enjoy freedom in London, Paris or Ukraine. But above all, the fact that Poland is sovereign, that by the power of this sovereignty many Members, many senators are expanding its value, is an example for other nations, for example Ukraine. They didn't fight because there was freedom with the break-up of the Soviet Union... But without this awareness, they did not develop this freedom, they did not build the sovereignty of everyday life. It was political sovereignty, but it was not national sovereignty. In Poland, the opposite, sovereignty was built from the bottom, by the nation. That is why it is worth talking about freedom and sovereignty. Moving on to the questions. Mr Porwich of Kukiz,15, asks whether there are disparities between victims and executioners, as is said. The Senate has taken the view that this law should not be a constituent act. This was the promise of opposition groups, before the fight started, before it could be speculated on its results: the anti-communist opposition, democratic, directed by the teaching of the Church does not fight for killing, will not be what blessed Fr. Popieluszko in Bydgoszcz, used retaliation. Therefore, the philosophy that, when it comes to the financial scale, the security services of that state or even the party bodies would be placed on equal footing with the participants, in my opinion, and not only in my opinion, the Senate is also a road to nowhere. Imagine that there would be a shortage of money that comes from the distribution, and the opposition environments would still be poor. This identity is in my opinion and civilized, and mathematically, financially unacceptable. It is simply that the state towards its citizens, the nation, should fulfil its duty, regardless of the people we have fought against. Mrs Lenartowicz has been moved here by such a thread, which is indeed a moral challenge. Why is it so late that her husband and others didn't get this satisfaction in the form of an anti-communist opposition activist's badge? There is this problem because, as I remember, I took part in it myself, I voted for it - she decided that her first goal was to rebuild sovereignty, build a wealthy Poland, and then introduce settlements. Mrs Tomaszewska accuses even the local governments of a hostile or unpleasant policy against activists of the "Solidarity" and asks what the cure is, that is important. This law responds to your question by creating consultative councils at voivodship and national level as elements of such a hard talk about finance, about social policy at local level. It therefore includes local authorities in what the State is obliged to do as a whole of public services. I thank Mr Mosiński for his support, but his question is more important, mathematical almost. How many opposition groups have the demands been met? He's even asking me as the applicant to make it a percentage. This is difficult to quantify in percentage because the weight of these claims was different, but it was up to 100,000. - so that once the compensation is enough for a body of fighters to be created to give everyone a permanent pension or a pension. As you can see, in this respect the level of implementation is zero or close to zero. But above all, a settlement has been reached that allows the High Senate to cooperate in easier conditions. Mr Matusiewicz, previously an active senator, also a participant in this process, says... I think it's a mistake. IPN is talking about 30,000, while it is the Ministry of Finance, based on reasonable estimates, to this day unjustified, it is talking about 100,000, so it is about 3 and 4 billion PLN of expenditure. He says that this amount should be applied to the average... But earlier, he notes that the original project assumed that the amount of this benefit would be at the minimum pension level. Indeed, it was so, but it is forgotten that this original project, which was created at President Komorowski's firm, really said that the amount of this benefit would be at the minimum pension level, but it was assumed social character, i.e. the threshold of social assistance, and then it was defined, as I remember, at PLN 521. So then and only then does the opponent or the persecuted person received help when the income on the family member was PLN 521, which, of course, the opposition environment, as well as the senators rejected. I'm approaching Mr. Sonik's position. I think this can be applied in committee work when he says that there should be a guarantee of employment of 5 years for opponents, as is the case in the Veterans Act. To be honest, this is a very nice postulate, and I would love to write it, but today most of these people, or maybe 95%, are no longer employees. They're just pensioners and pensioners, and I think we're gonna guarantee them that pension. I conclude with what Mr Mieszkowski has said. Thank you and express my appreciation and request for active work, especially in time, on this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u630	Thank you, Senator. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u631	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The IPN estimates the number of living people persecuted by Communists at 30,000. The Ministry of the Family assumes that in 2017 the new benefit will be received by 10,000. persons. About 2 000 have benefited from the current benefit. people expected from 9 000. Up to 100,000. Do the authors of the project therefore plan to make a special effort to reach out to potential recipients, e.g. through information, in cooperation with non-governmental organisations? Often they are those who have deceived our country and who do not expect support, which they deserve as rarely to whom they belong.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u632	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Senate bill amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons meet not only the backgrounds of former opponents, but also the reaction to the appeal and position of the Ombudsman. The project assumes that compensation may also be sought by persons who have suffered damage or injury in connection with the issuing of unenforced court decisions or unenforced decisions on internment in a state of war. The applicants also propose to give the right to compensation for the damage to persons who have received the status of anti-communist opposition activist or those who have been repressed for political reasons who have received this status under the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those who have been repressed for political reasons. Another change is the proposal to extend indefinitely the time in which claims can be made, arguing that these claims will not be statute-barred. The project was supported by the senators unanimously. It is worth recalling that this is not the first step in this direction. Since the beginning of the year, there has been a law that has been overworked in the previous term of the Sejm, allowing opposition activists to use, among others. from the pension allowance. It is well noted that there is still a expectation to extend the powers of the former opponents, hence the Senate initiative. The Polish People's Party Club will express its position during the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u633	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Senate's draft law on amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and certain other laws, contained in print No 936, to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Two Members came forward with formal proposals. Mr Michał Kaminski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u634	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: Paragraph 184. Point 3 (1) shall be formally requested to postpone the sitting of the Sejm in the event of a debate which is announced. Reason: Mr. Marshal, night favors many things, sometimes romantic hovering, sometimes star-watching. The night certainly does not favor a change in the Polish state. I have the impression that this is another example when you are ashamed of your own intentions, ergo you admit that these goals are not pure and are not right, you want to debate them under the cover of the night. Like a fox who also sneaks into the henhouse under cover of the night. Therefore, my proposal aims to ensure that the debate in which you want to change the Polish state's system and in which you want to change it in a bad way is accompanied by media and public interest. Today's debate, nightly, sudden, does not serve as a third time for such an important issue, as a change of state, an attack on the fundamental institutions of a democratic state under the cover of the night. Therefore, in accordance with the rules of procedure, Mr Marshal, I ask you to vote on the formal proposal I have tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u635	Thank you, sir. At the same time, I inform both the Member and the High House that a vote has already taken place on this matter. It was a point of dispute. During the voting block, the Sejm decided that we would proceed on this point... [[But there was no formal application at the time.]] ...that's why I find this proposal unreasonable. Please also make a formal request to Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u636	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for a break and remind you once again that we do not have key opinions on this project. We have two entities, such as the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council, which are obliged to do so under the law, in order to give an opinion on the legal act that concerns the functioning of the justice system in Poland. Both opinions have not yet been received in the Sejm, so we are proceeding in a situation where we do not have key opinions on this institution. I would also like to point out that we are still not familiar with the provisions introducing this law. This makes it absolutely impossible to assess whether the provisions in this law are constitutional or not. For example, in so far as they protect or take back acquired rights. In addition, the principles of legislative technique also make it clear that if we have three laws on the same matter, they should be proceding simultaneously. I am aware that this procedure, i.e. the withdrawal during the procedure of the transitional legislation, is introduced only in order to remove the possibility of examining the constitutionality of these laws until it is convenient for you. What's more, I'd like to draw your attention. also that the UN Human Rights Committee issued a report today, which makes it clear that the Polish Government, and especially the Polish President, is obliged to take a vow from three properly elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The bill we're going to be discussing today, in the article. 5 once again tries to introduce three illegally elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. So it is against the recommendations of this important UN resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've been trying to push the Constitutional Court bill with your knees for 12 months. You haven't convinced anyone that anything...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u637	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u638	...you repair these laws, neither Polish lawyers nor European lawyers, not even your constituents were able to convince you to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u639	Thank you very much, Member. [[Mr. Marshal...]] As in the case of the previous speaker, I inform you that the Sejm, during this morning's vote in the voting block, decided that this point would be procedated. We're at first reading. [[But not for formal applications that were submitted in the evening.]] Late in time, ladies and gentlemen, if we could fit in during the time that was accepted and accepted also with the opposition representatives at the Bureau meeting this morning and the Seniors' Convention, the first reading would already be behind us. Let me remind you that this shift is not intentional in time... [[Voice from the room: Hour.]] ...as Mr Michał Kaminski was trying to suggest here, that under the cover of the night, it is only due to nothing else, only an excessive number of questions that were raised during the voting block. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr President, you have already made a formal request. [[Mr. Marshal, but in correction mode.]] There's no way to correct a formal motion, I understand you perfectly. [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no corrigendum to the formal application.]] We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal (Print No 963). I ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u640	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Group of Members, I have the honour to present to the High House a draft law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, print No 963. The draft law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal is the second of the three acts planned to deal comprehensively with cases relating to that tribunal. The proposed law is intended to replace the Act of 22 July 2016 on the Constitutional Court. The project shall implement the disposition resulting from the article. 197 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The issues which are not directly covered by the concept of organisation or procedure have been excluded, and so the designers have deviated from the description of the subject matter of the Constitutional Tribunal and applied a new organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal. This is the implementation of the proposal of a panel of experts on matters of the Constitutional Tribunal appointed by the Marshal of the Sejm. The draft shall also take into account other recommendations resulting from the report of the panel of experts on matters of the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as certain recommendations set out in the opinions of the Venice Commission. In its 2016 Constitutional Court Act, the legislator failed to take into account all conclusions resulting from the opinions on the functioning of the Court. At the time of the adoption of this law, the conclusions of the panel of experts for the Constitutional Tribunal were not known. In this connection, the group of Members considered it necessary to draw up and prepare a new legislative act which would take into account the multi-monthly work of the panel of experts in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal and respond to the dispute concerning the organisation and procedure of the tribunal. This dispute has recently covered not only the standards concerning the procedure for the control of constitutionality of the law, but also the issues of the status and internal competences of the bodies of the Constitutional Tribunal. The draft law takes into account the previous regulations concerning the organisation and proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. The basic distinction in relation to the normative acts in force between 1997 and 2016 is that the law excluded the matter concerning the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was transferred to another law. The designer divided the bill into three departments. Section I: Organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal, Section II : Procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal, Section III : Final provision. The project contains both solutions known to the Constitutional Tribunal laws and new solutions. Above all, the institutions which have so far not been present in the Constitutional Court laws will be identified here. Section I defines the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal. It consists of three chapters: General provisions, bodies of the Court, the Registry of the Court and the Office of the Legal Service of the Court; branch 1: Common provisions, branch 2: Registry of the Court, branch 3: Office of the Legal Service of the Court. New legal arrangements concerning the organisation of the tribunal include a new mechanism for the election of candidates for the position of President of the Constitutional Tribunal by the General Assembly. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 11 The designer has laid down the statutory conditions for presenting candidates to the general meeting for the positions of President and Vice-President of the Tribunal. Since various entities are involved in the process of filling these posts, the President of the Republic of Poland must also be the President of the Republic of Poland in addition to the general assembly. After the election of the candidates by the General Assembly, they shall be presented to the President, whose prerogative is the appointment of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Vice-President respectively. In this respect, the General Assembly shall adopt an appropriate resolution, which it shall forward to the President of the Republic of Poland. The General Assembly's resolution indicating a set of candidates for President of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be an expression of the action referred to in Article. Paragraph 194. 2 constitutions. The adoption of a resolution by a majority indicates that the majority of the members of the General Assembly agreed to present the person as candidates to the President of the Republic of Poland. The failure to adopt this resolution makes it impossible for the General Assembly to present candidates. Art. Paragraph 194. 2 of the Constitution does not make the President of the Republic of Poland a notary confirming the resolution concerning the presentation of candidates by the General Assembly. Neither the Constitution nor the Constitutional Tribunal Act indicate the criteria that the President would be guided by the appointment of the President or Vice-President of the Tribunal. The President's sole responsibility in this respect is to act on the basis and within the limits of the law. He may appoint the President of the Constitutional Tribunal only if the procedure for the submission of candidates by the General Assembly has taken place in accordance with the law. As proposed in the Article. 11 The mechanism for selecting candidates for the general assembly as President or Vice-President of the Tribunal does not in any way restrict the constitutional role of the President of the Republic of Poland in the appointment of these bodies, while respecting the right of the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to present candidates for the President or Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal. This guarantees a constitutional balance of power. The proposed solution ensures the true representativeness of the choice made and takes into account its legitimacy and representative aspect. This is to be guaranteed by the requirement that the candidate obtains minimum support. The designer does not waive this requirement, even if the procedure for the general assembly to select candidates ends in failure. For this reason, it proposes repeating the vote and ultimately repeating the whole process of presenting candidates for the position of President or Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal. The idea is that, at the stage of the selection of candidates, they should be the judges of the tribunal with the support of more members of the general assembly. For these reasons, in the Article. 11 The mechanism shall always have at least one of the candidates of the general meeting presented for the post of President of the Constitutional Tribunal to receive at least five votes in the selection procedure. The new election mechanism for the President of the Constitutional Tribunal provides for the start of procedures for the appointment of the President or Vice-President only after the end of the term of office of the President-in-Office of the Constitutional Tribunal. From the date of the opening of the vacancy until the election of the President of the Tribunal, the Tribunal shall be chaired by a judge who has the longest period of work in total: an internship as a judge in the Constitutional Tribunal... [[It's best if she goes to martial law.]] ...come on as an applicant, asessor, judge of the general court and state administration at central level. This solution is intended to ensure the organisational continuity of the Court's operation. The appointment of the President or Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal after their term of office was recommended by a team of experts to the Constitutional Tribunal. [[A hero.]] According to Art. 10 [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The two draft terms of office of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Vice-President respectively shall be six years, but shall not last longer than the end of the term of office of the Judge of the Tribunal appointed as President of the Tribunal or the expiry of the term of office of that Judge of the Tribunal before the end of his term of office or the expiry of the term of office of the President of the Tribunal. This term shall expire in the event of the death of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal or of the submission by a judge of a tribunal which is the President of the Tribunal, which for six months... is, in principle, obsolete, but to this day was still... until the age of 70, in accordance with the procedure laid down in separate regulations. The recommendation to introduce the term of office of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Vice-President included a team of experts for the Constitutional Tribunal in Recommendation No V. The draft assumes that the appointment of the President or Vice-President of the Tribunal is inadmissible. This approach corresponds to the position of the Constitutional Court in its judgment of 9 December 2015, e.g. K 35/15. The draft aligns the regulation on the position of the vice-president of the Tribunal with the actual role of that body. The Constitution does not confer any powers on this entity. The scope of the vice-president's competence therefore depends on the legislator. The draft underlines the ancillary nature of this position towards the President of the Tribunal and indicates a close link between these bodies. The scope of the tasks to be carried out by the Vice-President depends on the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. The proposed regulation is more appropriate to the position of vice-president in the organisational system of the tribunal. The proposed solution is similar to those in the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. Namely, in the absence of the first President of the Supreme Court, he is replaced by the President of the Supreme Court appointed by him. The Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court clarify in § Paragraph 7 1 that the Presidents of the Supreme Court are deputy to the first President of the Supreme Court in the area defined by him and direct the work of the chambers. Similarly, Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Administrative Court shall be Deputy President of the Supreme Administrative Court within the scope determined by the President. The President of the Tribunal may, in special situations, authorise another Judge of the Tribunal to exercise certain powers belonging to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. The possibility of authorising another judge to exercise certain powers of the President stresses the collegiality of the Court and equal responsibility of all its members for the proper functioning of that institution. The draft provides for the adoption of an ethical code. This code is particularly important in determining the duties of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and disciplinary responsibility. Its issue is the implementation of the recommendation of the panel of experts to the Constitutional Tribunal. I stress that the adoption of the Code of Ethics is the competence of the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. They're the ones who'll draw up the code of ethics, and they're gonna make a resolution to adopt it. Art. The 15th draft clearly sets out the matter of the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is an internal act. The way in which matter may be determined, which may be the subject of the Rules of Procedure, must take account of the fact that the act must not itself impose material or procedural obligations on parties to proceedings or operate the obligations imposed by the law on those entities, nor must it deprive them of their powers. The newly designed subsidiary of the Constitutional Tribunal is intended to provide efficient administrative services and reliable substantive assistance to the Tribunal and its judges. The Court's office is replaced by two organisational units, namely the Court's Registry and the Court's Legal Service Office. The appointment of these bodies is intended to improve organisational and administrative activities, rationalise employment and ensure the quality of the supporting apparatus of the Constitutional Tribunal. Changes in the organisational and administrative working conditions of the Court will allow for the elimination of unnecessary bureaucratic apparatus. The Court's law firm and the Office of the Court's Legal Service have been distinguished according to the criterion in question. Similar divisions within the organizational units occur in the Supreme Court, there is the Law Firm of the First President of the Supreme Court and the Office of Studies and Analysis of the Supreme Court. It is similar in the Supreme Administrative Court. It is the law firm of the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Office of the Court. The proposed solution therefore falls within the organisational standards in the highest courts of the Republic of Poland. The projector assumed that, as in the Supreme Court, the proceedings in matters of labour law against the employees of the organisational units of the tribunal are carried out by the President of the Tribunal or by a person authorised by him. The primary task of the Chancellery of the Court is to ensure the organisational and administrative conditions of the Court's work. The law firm is to consist of the director of the law firm appointed by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, from the Administrative Department, i.e. staff employed in administrative positions, and from the Court Guard Department, i.e. staff employed in positions related to the protection of the Constitutional Tribunal. The tasks and structure of the firm in the field of the unregulated law are to be determined by the statutes of the firm. Detailed questions relating to the positions in the Court's Registry are to be determined by order by the President of the Court, after consulting the Director of the Court's Registry. The proposal provides for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure for the remuneration of the Court's Chancellery. The draft stipulates that the remuneration of the Director of the Court's Registry may not exceed the remuneration provided for by the Director of the Court of Appeal laid down in the implementing rules issued under the Law on the System of General Courts. In cases not governed by the Act, the provisions of the Act on employees of public authorities shall apply to the employees of the law firm. The task of the Office of the Court's Legal Service shall be to provide the substantive service directly related to the judicial activities of the Court and to assist in the work of the Court's judges. The Office of the Legal Service of the Court is to consist, firstly, of the Director of the Office of the Legal Service of the Court, appointed by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, secondly, of the assistants of the Judges of the Tribunal, thirdly, of the Department of Preliminary Verification of the Scriptures initiating the proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, fourthly, of the Faculty of Studies on the Court of Justice and Legal Analysis. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 26th draft found that the Assistant Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is carrying out activities aimed at preparing cases for the tribunal's examination and administrative activities. The basic qualification requirements for assistants are: first, Polish citizenship and the exercise of full civil and civil rights, second, impeccable character, third, completed higher law studies in Poland and master's degree or foreign legal studies considered equivalent in Poland. These criteria are derived from Article. The 155th Law on the System of Universal Courts. This is the minimum appointed by the legislator to take up the post of Assistant Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The project assumes that the selection of candidates takes place by means of a competition organised and conducted by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, after consulting the Director of the Legal Service Office. Information on the competition must be included in the Public Information Bulletin of the Constitutional Tribunal. The order of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal is to determine: firstly, the number of assistants of the judges of the Tribunal, secondly, the additional qualification requirements, thirdly, the detailed scope of their tasks and the manner and conditions for their execution. The preliminary examination of the Scriptures initiating proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal is to assist the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in carrying out the tasks related to the preliminary review. The Faculty of Law Studies and Legal Analysis is intended to support the process of ruling in the Constitutional Court with a scientific consultation and carry out tasks relating to the legal compliance, consistency and uniformity of the case law of the Tribunal. The tasks and structures of both departments in the field of the unregulated law shall be determined by the statute of the office. The designer set out basic requirements for department staff. The basic qualification requirements for employees from both departments are: first, Polish citizenship and the exercise of full civil and civil rights, second, impeccable character, third, completed higher law studies in Poland and master's degree or foreign law studies considered equivalent in Poland. In addition, a member of the faculty must have at least a doctorate degree in law due to the nature of the tasks to be carried out within the faculty and their scientific and expert character. Issues such as the number and list of posts on which persons belonging to the departments are employed, other additional qualification requirements, the detailed scope of tasks in those posts and the manner and conditions of their execution have been left to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. As in the case of the Chancellery of the Court, the drafter provided for the issuance of the Rules of Procedure for the remuneration of the staff of the Office of the Legal Service of the Court. The remuneration of the Director of the Office of the Legal Service of the Court shall not exceed the remuneration provided for by the Director of the Court of Appeal laid down in the implementing rules issued under the Law on the System of General Courts. According to Art. 32 projects in cases not covered by the Act shall be governed by the provisions of the Law on Officials of the Courts and the Public Prosecutors' Office. Basic legal arrangements for proceedings before the Tribunal: Section II governs proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. It consists of 10 chapters: jurisdiction of the Court; formations of the Tribunal; exclusion of a judge of the Court; participants of proceedings; procedural documents; costs of proceedings; course of proceedings before the Court; branch I - Initiation of proceedings; branch II - Dismissation of proceedings; branch III - Preliminary review of applications, legal questions and constitutional complaints; branch IV - Recognition of the case before the Constitutional Tribunal. Special provisions on proceedings by the Tribunal: branch 1 - Procedure for a constitutional complaint; branch 2 - Procedure for compliance with the Constitution of objectives or activities of political parties; branch 3 - Procedure for settlement of a dispute of competence; branch 4 - Procedure for finding an obstacle to the exercise of office by the President of the Republic of Poland; Judgments and sittings; Judgments of the Tribunal. The various chapters of Chapter II contain both common provisions relating to all procedures before the Constitutional Tribunal and those applicable only to some of them. With regard to proceedings such as: first, constitutional complaints, second, the examination of compliance with the constitution of the objectives or activities of political parties, thirdly, disputes of competence between central constitutional authorities of the State, fourth, the recognition of the interim obstacle of the President in the exercise of office, the designers in separate branches only dealt with those issues which differed from the others. On the other hand, issues concerning e.g. the content of procedural letters initiating proceedings, participants in proceedings, meetings and hearings, as well as decisions are laid down in chapters covering all proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. Chapter 1 of Chapter II governs the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Tribunal. Art. 33 of the project lists the cases in which the tribunal is adjudicated. This summary is based on the powers conferred on that body in the Constitution. The drafting of this provision refers to the article. 3 of the Constitutional Court Act of 2015 The proposed law has not amended the rule that the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code apply mutatis mutandis to matters not governed by the law to proceedings before the Tribunal. It's just like it used to be. As regards formations, the project retains the mechanism for determining the compositions of the hearing bodies before the Court of Justice in force under the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 2016. They shall take into account the conclusions of the discussions on the rules for the formation of the Constitutional Tribunal, including the conclusions of the opinion of the Venice Commission and the recommendations of the panel of experts on matters of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Court is to rule in full court, in the composition of 5 Judges and in the composition of 3 Judges. The criterion for the division of cases between different compositions is of a particular nature. It consists of the grading of cases dealt with by the composition depending on the type of act and the substance of the case under review. The draft law, as well as the 2016 Constitutional Court Act, maintains that the full composition requires the participation of at least 11 judges. The hearing in full shall be chaired by the President and, in the event of obstacles to the chairing, by the Judge appointed by him of the Tribunal. Chapter 4 of Section II provides for a collective agreement between the parties to proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. The provisions of this Chapter shall specify both the participants in the procedure for determining the conformity of normative acts with higher-ranking acts and other matters which may be the subject of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. The possibility of wide participation in the Ombudsman's proceedings was maintained, known from the previous law. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 43 and Article 43 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers The rules of operation of the representative or representative have also been laid down. In addition, in Chapter 4 to the list of participants to date, the designer added participants to the proceedings on the finding of an obstacle to the exercise of office by the President of the Republic of Poland. The draft also sets out the rules for the appointment of representatives in these proceedings. Chapter 5 of Section II broadly regulates the issues of pleadings before the Court, including the formal requirements that they must fulfil. In particular, the drafter drew attention to the letters initiating proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. In addition to certain editorial corrections and clarification of the wording, the solutions indicated refer to the previously existing Constitutional Tribunal laws, in particular the 2016 Court of First Instance Act. As a normative novelty, it should be pointed out that Chapter 5 separately sets out the formal requirements of the proposal, firstly, on the constitutional compatibility of the political party's objectives, secondly, on the constitutional compatibility of the political party's activities and, thirdly, on the resolution of a dispute of competence and on the finding of an obstacle to the exercise of office by the President of the Republic of Poland. To the known conditions of redemption, this related to the so-called. discounting requests from groups of Members or Senators. According to Art. 59 (1) (a) Point 1 (5) of the draft tribunal shall, at a secret meeting, issue a decision to discontinue proceedings in the event of the end of the term of office of the Sejm and the Senate in cases pending on the basis of a request from a group of Members or Senators referred to in Article. Article 191 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 of the Constitution. In this way, long-term practice has been sanctioned. In addition, the proposal limits the possibility to rule on provisions which have become obsolete. This will only be possible if a ruling is necessary to protect constitutional freedoms and rights in the context of a constitutional complaint. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 67 The designer has clearly defined what is to be understood by the subject-matter of the appeal, the subject-matter of the check and the control pattern. In this respect, the Law refers to the expressions used in legal doctrine. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 64 of the project shall be governed by the principles of joint identification of applications, legal questions or constitutional complaints. The principle is to combine cases initiated in the same mode. The designer introduces a clear ban on combining cases initiated in different control modes. The project develops the issue of access to the file. Art. 73 of the project ensures access to the file in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and contains regulations on the protection of personal data. The solution is more extensive than in the 2016 Constitutional Court Act. [[How much more of this nonsense are we gonna listen to?]] Art. The 74th project set out the rules for reviewing the case file, which is also intended to express the exercise of the right to a fair procedure before the Court. To date, these issues have been detailed in the Rules of Procedure of the Court. The projector considered that they should be regulated by the law. The question of proceedings concerning the finding of an obstacle to the exercise of office by the President of the Republic of Poland. This competence of the Court was not extended by the 2016 Act. The drafter, by model of the 2015 Act on the Constitutional Court, therefore clarifies this issue and introduces the basic procedural rules in this respect. The draft, as in the 2016 Constitutional Court Act, makes it the principle of recognition of cases at the hearing. However, the possibility of hearing cases at classified meetings has been added. This institution was extended in the Constitutional Court Act of 2015. In addition to the possibility to hear the case in secret, where it is clear from the written views of all the parties to the proceedings that the normative act on the basis of which the court or public administration finally ruled on the applicant's constitutional freedoms or rights or obligations is incompatible with the constitution, a judgment without a hearing may also be given if, first, the written positions of all the parties to the proceedings and the other evidence gathered in the case constitute sufficient grounds for a judgment or, secondly, where the case concerns a legal matter which has been sufficiently clarified in previous rulings of the Constitutional Tribunal. The possibility to adjudicate at a secret meeting cannot be a principle. The proposer proposed that the necessary conditions for the hearing of the case should be the appointment of all participants in the proceedings. According to the project, cases cannot be identified at a secret meeting in the case of cases dealt with in full. The projector maintained the 30-day time-limit for the appointment of the hearing known from the Constitutional Court Act of 2016. This time limit may be reduced by half by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, but with the possibility for the initiators to object in this matter. In contrast to the 2016 Act, the project does not provide for exceptions to the possibility of shortening the time limit within which the hearing is to take place. The designer has resigned from the appointment of hearings on applications in order of impact, which is in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. The draft clarifies the obligations of the participants in the hearing, which so far laid down the rules of procedure of the Court. In particular, rules related to the management of the break in the hearing have been identified. The drafter maintained the vote on the ruling by a majority. The previous arrangements for qualified majority have not been re-established. Such action is in line with the indications set out in the opinion of the Venice Commission. The draft also waives the possibility of objecting to four judges in a full session against the proposed decision. It is worth noting that, in this respect, We listened to the opposition's voice and the position of the Venice Commission. The designer varied the issue of public publication of a decision against a notice within the meaning of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this In the latter case, he referred to the rule resulting from the Law on the publication of normative acts and certain other acts. The rule that the order of announcement is made by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal is restored. In order to make a judgment public, an act of an authorised entity is necessary. The issuing body of the Official Journal in which the decisions of the Tribunal are published may not act ex officio in this respect. The proposalor decided that, due to the new way of regulating the matter concerning the tribunal and the need to ensure consistency of the regulation, the transitional, adaptation and final provisions will be included in a separate law: introductory provisions. And here a lot has been said about this, that we should discuss on the basis of three projects. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that is not possible. There's no way we can go over three laws at the same time. Even if this process is tight in time, there's still a certain order. Therefore, the introductory and transitional provisions depend on the content of the previously adopted laws. Today, for example. It is difficult to tell what shape this bill will take, which I am presenting to the High House at the moment. It is therefore difficult for transitional provisions to arise at this point, which will refer to a project that has not yet become a law. [[That's enough, really.]] Finally, the new law sets out in an orderly manner the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the tribunal, which is intended to enable the latter to operate more efficiently. This will be possible by strengthening the legitimacy of the General Assembly, in particular when presenting candidates for the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, and by clarifying and clarifying the procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal. In this way, those wishing to initiate proceedings will have the guarantee of a fair procedure, and the tribunal, within its independence and at the same time within the limits of the law, will be able to exercise its powers freely. It should be stressed that the fundamental changes in the shape of the regulation compared to previous laws concern primarily the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal. The constitutional crisis related to the Constitutional Tribunal has shown that the shortcomings arising from the formation of the organisational structure of the tribunal, including the determination of the internal competences of the tribunal's bodies and the administrative apparatus, hinder the smooth operation of the institution. The Group of Members considered that the proposed arrangements for the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal would allow for a fair hearing before that body. High Izbo, I am aware of the flaws in the project. However, I hope, as usual, that the High House will want to take further legislative work. I therefore request that the High House support the referral of this project to further work in committees. [[Everybody's gonna back it up.]] At the same time, I would like to point out that, contrary to previous statements, the committee has opinions. Opinions were received by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, which are also made public by experts appointed by the Sejm Analysis Office. [[Don't answer questions about how they haven't been asked yet.]] But it has already come to a formal conclusion that there is no opinion. So I'm saying the opinions are. Opinions were also requested from the National Council of Courts. She felt that she did not see any reason to react to this project, which is also worth knowing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Finally. Kiss each other. They're squeezing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u641	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Waldemar Buda, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u642	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am pleased to present my position on the parliamentary draft law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. In our view, a complex project is a very big step... [[Towards the abyss.]] ...to repair what was corrupted by the June 2015 Act, adopted by Members of the Civic Platform. The bill is of a sequencing nature. [[Voice from the O.R.: Fifth time.]] It largely duplicates the resolution of the previous 1997 Act, but also the July 1997 Act. The Act is also the implementation of the conclusions and indications of a team of experts appointed by the Marshal of the Sejm, which indicated the separation of the matter concerning the Tribunal into three legal acts - the act concerning the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, the act concerning the procedure and organisation of proceedings before the Court and the implementing rules. You can also tell more about this law. It largely responds to the conclusions of the Venice Commission's opinion, but also to the opposition. By introducing the criteria for the election of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal in the 2016 Act, the opposition protested against three candidates who could have little support, even one vote, among the judges of the Tribunal. The current draft assumes that the candidates will be those judges who have received at least five votes. The Act also points to the six-year term of office of the President, which offers a chance for a greater rotation as President, which can only have positive effects in the non-orthodox scope of the Court's management. The proposal excludes the possibility for three judges to apply for a full court in a given case, which, undoubtedly, also by the votes of the opposition, can only result in an acceleration of proceedings. The principle of dealing with cases has been waived by order of impact. I remember in this regard, for example, Mr Budka's statements, which indicated that queuing cases according to the date of impact would cause that the laws of this term of office of the Sejm would not be able to be audited. Ladies and gentlemen, in this situation, surely this prophetic prophecy of Mr Budka will not work. The General Assembly was also authorised to introduce a code of ethics for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Today, for example, during the debate on the Statute of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, several times have been asked who will determine these principles of ethics. Let me remind you that this project, although today is the first reading, was published on the pages of the Sejm several days ago. So we could see that the powers in this regard would be proposed to the general assembly. The Act also provides for a much-needed solution to indicate who will be the head of the tribunal between the expiry of the current President's term of office and the election of another by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. It should also be pointed out that the law uses a number of solutions that the applicant Member has pointed out, already known from the Supreme Court Act. I'm summing up. The Law and Justice Club will support the project and ask for it to continue. And, of course, we hope that the project will be evaluated according to its content, not according to the people who present it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u643	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadius Myrch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u644	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform would like to present its position on the draft law on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal. A few hours ago, a law was adopted in this Chamber with the votes of the Law and Justice, which, in an unprecedented and unprecedented way, limited the independence of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. It introduced, for example, restrictions on the fulfilment of the 9-year term enshrined in the Constitution, as well as a kind of muzzle for former judges of the Constitutional Tribunal by eliminating their public life activities. For a year now we have witnessed the Law and Justice of hybrid war with the Constitutional Tribunal, a war which is an emanation of Jarosław Kaczyński's image of omnipotent state power and omnipotent state power. The project presented a few days ago, discussed once again under the cover of the night, is just another chapter of the war epic written by Mr Peterovich, the prosecutor of the martial law period, a chapter symbolized by falsehood, hypocrisy and arrogance. [[Applause]] [[He's so proud, he's so happy.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] How can a law be treated differently, which was written under a one-off political order and is merely intended to take over an institution that is a barrier to the power of law and justice? How can a law which is contrary to the Constitution, the recommendations of the Venice Commission and, above all, common sense be treated differently? If we read the text of the bill, it must be stated without a shadow of a doubt that it bears the wrong title. It should read: an instruction for the election of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal appointed by Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] In general, the whole construction of the bill is such that it is built in such a way that a judge who does not have a clear anointing of the President may not be the head of the tribunal. [[Voice from the room: Right.]] I would like to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen to the new institution introduced by the law. Well, he's breaking up... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[For protocol.]] ...with a good tradition so far that the new President shall be elected before the end of the term of office of the outgoing Judge. This clearly ensured a certain continuity and organisational stability of the tribunal. Instead, it is proposed to introduce the so-called. the vacancy, and the whole selection procedure is to take place only after the expiry of the term of office of the President of Prof. Andrzej Rzepliński. During this vacancy, the Tribunal is to be chaired by a judge acting only as President. We already know today that it will be Judge Julia Przyłębska, because the statutory criteria contained in the article. 11 were clearly written under her professional work. [[Maybe Misiewicz will.]] The introduction of the institution of the vacancy should also be embedded in the realities of the hybrid war that I mentioned at the outset. Well, this whole clandestine institution is needed so that Judge Julia Przyłębska can allow three judges elected illegally by the PS in this term of office of the Sejm to attend the assembly. The assembly thus built, chosen on new terms, will present President Andrzej Duda with a candidate for President of the Constitutional Tribunal. On the other hand, if anyone thinks that the president would stop this operation, he is undoubtedly an incorrect optimist. Thus, in the atmosphere of forceful solutions, in violation of the Constitution and fundamental sense of decency, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal may be elected. This law is intended only to constitute the legal foundation of this quasi-assay, a foundation built on the ruins of the democratic and transparent principles of the internal election by judges of their real representative to organise the work of the tribunal. It is also important that there are planned organisational changes within the Constitutional Tribunal, changes involving de facto changes in the names of individual offices or teams. This method, typical of Law and Justice, has already been tested repeatedly by you in changes in public institutions or, also, in the prosecutor's office. Under the appearance of organizational changes, regular cleaning takes place of employees who are not friends, acquaintances or trusted representatives of good change. Therefore, the fear that many experienced and well-prepared workers will lose their jobs is absolutely justified. Unfortunately, the consequences of these actions will be felt by the most Poles who reach their rights before the Constitutional Tribunal. Only in vain in the actions of the Law and Justice to seek out actions that would protect the people of our country, because if that were to be the case, neither would it be the case, [[♪ The bell ♪]] or any scandalous act by the PiS concerning the Constitutional Tribunal would never have entered the Sejm. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requests that the bill be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[It's a weak performance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u645	Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Romekowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u646	Dear Marshal, Dear Mr President, today's draft law on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal has been proposed. I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the bill submitted. I don't know where to start, whether it's positive or negative. I will try to start with what raises the most doubts, i.e. art. 11 of the bill submitted. The article raises great doubts, and in fact many questions. This is basically a question not even to a lawyer, but to a game theory specialist, because it is a game of tribunal - the question of who will be the president of the tribunal and whether the current composition dominated by judges elected by the Sejm of the previous term, or representatives of the current power camp will win. The introduction of mechanisms concerning the vacancy and the conduct of the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in order to elect the President of the Tribunal by the youngest term of office of the Judge of the Tribunal is a rather strange solution. The presentation of candidates... whether to obtain five votes by two candidates, or, then, the procedure for selecting this candidate, who has the highest support, but has not received five votes of support, and the submission of these candidates to the President is also strange. Essential question: Why 6 years, not 5 or 3 years as a term of office of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal? Ladies and gentlemen, a good law is created in isolation from the political movement, from current needs and short-term interests. We should in the High Chamber reflect on the solutions that should serve for years and, in fact, for generations, so that the stability and seriousness of the Polish state can be seen. On the other hand, such a solution is proposed in Article. 11 raises all doubts and profound opposition. Now I'm going to go to the positive elements. This law, this draft law, is fundamentally different from the draft law, and in principle the law that the High House passed today. This bill introduces new mechanisms, unknown so far, but in my view, based on the pragmatism and practice of the functioning of the universal judiciary, these are all positive and good solutions. The introduction of the code of ethics alone deserves a positive response. An important element that does not exist in this bill, but which is to be noted positively, is the withdrawal from many very controversial demands which during this epic of the 8th term of the Sejm we could hear as parliamentarians. And it's also a good thing that from many of my opinion of the wrong ideas, the applicants have withdrawn. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In conclusion, it can be said that Polish society is tired of arguing about the Constitutional Tribunal. Paradoxically, at the beginning, society could have gained in this dispute, because I suspect that 90% of people have even learned about the existence of this very important constitutional body. However, at present such an important constitutional body causes impatience and boredom of society. Time will show whether this bill will bring us closer to whether they have distanced us from the end of the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal. Many of the solutions of this bill are systematic, improving and rationalising the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. Therefore, at the moment there is no clear position of our club, official and concluding work on this project. Therefore, I am personally in favour of further proceeding on this bill, because the proposed mechanisms for rationalising the Court's work are right, although the mechanisms relating to the fight for the position of the President of the Tribunal should be eliminated. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Bravo, very good speech.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u647	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u648	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 12 months, for the sixth time, you've changed the Court Act. There's already a seventh bill waiting in line. And of course, you are doing this so that citizens will stop paying attention to the fact that democracy is being destroyed in Poland and the gagged Constitutional Tribunal so that they will simply accept that the tribunal must be yours and the end. [[Destroyed democracy?]] And yes, people are feeling tired, that's for sure. But I assure you, they won't forget. They will not forget the destruction of democracy and your arrogance, the pushing of laws after night, the violation of regulations. [[Yeah, yeah, yeah.]] Once again, we are working on a constitutionally important law in a hurry. This project was launched on October 27th. It's really a shame it wasn't November 1st, because then I'm sure no one would notice what you're messing with. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to point out that this fight between the PiS and the Constitutional Tribunal is entering the next stage. After almost a year of blindness, that it is a matter of improving the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, PiS presents a law that really boils down to taking control of the tribunal by Jarosław Kaczyński's people. The head of the PiS already has in his collection political toys remotely controlled president, the lady remotely controlled prime minister, at this point he will have a remotely controlled president of the tribunal. On the other hand, your laws on the Court and the way they are worked over the years will be a model of the legal bubla, from which students will learn how not to write the laws. High Izbo! The basics of the legislation say that the rules of law must be abstract, general, and not dictated by current needs. And this latest act on the grandstand, like the previous law by the PiS, just mocks the rule. With regard to the election of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, we are faced with a series of inadequate rules for which there is no other justification than simply providing a nomination for a pre-appointed candidate. Take, for example, the provision on the President of the General Assembly, whose primary function is to elect a President. Contrary to all traditions, logic and international practices, the judge is to be the youngest intern. After all, the youngest judge's internship soon appoints the PiS, and another explanation simply missing. During the vacancy, on the other hand, the Court's management as President is to be adopted by the oldest judge, not by the vice-president. But this isn't about an internship in the grandstand, it's also about an internship as an applicant or a government official, which is without any connection to the work in the grandstand. Of course, after a thorough career analysis, the most experienced judge turns out to be the nominator of Law and Justice. In public tenders such an action is simply circumvention of the law. If someone offered such a solution in a public tender, in practice this would simply be equal to setting the tender. High Izbo! The electoral procedure in the proposed law has been written in such an unusual way that it still allows for the appointment of a President in practice not enjoying universal support among judges. In practice, there may be a situation in which Andrzej Duda can appoint even a judge who has received one vote at a general meeting electing candidates for President. It is quite different from what the Member says. It may be that one has five votes, but the others have one vote, and then the president can choose one vote. In fact, this law is just another attempt to undermine the three divisions of power and the foundations of democracy. PiS juggles these key laws for the system only for one purpose: that the Constitutional Tribunal should either not give judgments at all, or that they would be written in Novgorodka. Józef Stalin for Jarosław Kaczyński It's supposed to be an idol of political efficiency. He once said it doesn't matter how you vote, but who counts the votes. [[What nonsense?]] And Jarosław Kaczyński This is the rule he is trying to introduce in a changed form in the Court. [[Voice from the room: Discreditation.]] After the adoption of this law, it will be said that it will not be important who works in the Court, but who directs the work of the Court. I'm not surprised that in the new bill you've withdrawn from everything you've tried to push your knees over the last 12 months. There will be no waiting several months for a hearing before the tribunal, there will be no qualified majority vote, there will be no ruling in full, but there will be a PiS-Principal President of the tribunal, only there will be no democracy in Poland. [[Yes, sir.]] On behalf of the Modern Club, I request that this law be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u649	Thank you, Member. Since the time for the Modern Club has run out, I would ask Mr Krzysztof Pasyk to speak. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Mrs. Lubnauer wanted another five seconds.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u650	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, You'd like to say what's so early today. The night's so long, and here's the hour. 22, 23, we'll be done at midnight. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Let's hope so.]] [[The farmer's looking for his wife.]] High Izbo! Today's regulation is intended to replace the Constitutional Court Act of 22 July 2016 and to define its organisational structure, internal bodies and the scope of the powers conferred on them, and to establish the procedure for the court's proceedings, i.e. the procedures by which the tasks and powers of the tribunal governed by the Constitution can be fulfilled. So many theories. So many beautiful words, but first of all, we need to show the real goals of the projectors, not those that they want to tell the public, and unfortunately not for the first time. According to the draft, the General Assembly shall form the Presidential Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal who have taken a vow to the President. This provision implies the need for the President of the three Judges elected by the Sejm to attend the general assembly last December. This is, it seems, the true purpose of the PiS club group just a week before the draft law on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal, so it is about introducing double judges to judgment. The proposed solution to the project is intended to clearly indicate what the general assembly is so that there is no unauthorized overinterpretation in this respect - as stated in the justification for the project. You may ask: What else is pushing the three judges of December, if not an unauthorized interpretation? Today, you want to turn this unauthorized interpretation into law, breaking the fundamental principles of the rule of law and ignoring professional legal opinions from Poland and abroad. Not more than two weeks ago, 93 NGOs from all over Europe appealed to President Andrzej Duda and Prime Minister Beata Szydło to resolve the crisis around the tribunal and implement the recommendations of the Venice Commission. As they say in their letter, none of these recommendations have been met. Instead of going in the direction indicated by the organisations monitoring the rule of law and respecting democratic standards, you continue to move towards the opposite direction, towards the burning of the dispute until the PiS flag hangs over the building of the Constitutional Tribunal, and as Maciej Maleńczuk sings: the President of the Tribunal will have a heart attack. For the time being, you are not able to control this situation, reaching forteles such as cutting the budget of the Constitutional Tribunal, or, as before a week ago, during a committee of justice meeting, holding an opinion on the draft budget of the Tribunal until the general assembly of the judges of the Tribunal adopts it as a 15-member member. A separate problem is the procedure for the election of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Tribunal. In accordance with the draft, the General Assembly shall present to the President the candidates for the President of the Tribunal within one month of the date on which the vacancy was created. Today, the Act on the Court of First Instance of 22 July states that the General Assembly's deliberations on this matter are convened between 30 and 15 days before the end of the President's term of office. The General Assembly meeting on the election of a candidate for President shall be chaired by the Court's youngest internship. The draft foresees that the President shall be appointed by the President from among the candidates submitted to him by the Assembly. The assembly is to present the President as candidates for all judges who have received at least five votes in the vote. According to the draft, if only one judge has received the required number of five votes, the assembly shall present as the second candidate for the President of that judge who has gained the greatest support among the judges. In this way, you will widen the President's election and be assured that the only candidate proposed by the general assembly will be your candidate. It's not hard to guess the president's gonna pick him on the phone. He won't even have to call for instructions on Novgorod. [[To Bury's.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club PSL [[♪ The bell ♪]] does not see the possibility of supporting the bill in this form. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u651	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u652	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! One of the leaders of the current ruling party is looking at Che Guevara and creates a guerrilla in Poland. The second of the leaders, the prosecutor here present, apparently looked at Fidel Castro... [[Voice from the hall: Who are you looking at?]] ...and slowly approaching the length of his speeches. But regardless of how long you would have spoken and how beautifully you would have spoken, because your eloquence is not lacking, it will not wash away the true intention of Law and Justice in this matter... [[And he's not gonna take the rodeo president away.]] ...what is the liquidation of the Constitutional Tribunal as an independent body looking at every authority in its hands. He can't stand to criticize saying that this tribunal is not objective. At the Constitutional Court, in colloquially speaking, all previous governments in Poland passed. I mean, the tribunal in different formations has often acted against the intentions of the rulers. [[Except the Platform.]] Also the Civic Platform. I remember Hanna Suchocka's government, the SLD government, the Solidarity Election Action government. [[Olszewski's still here.]] The Constitutional Tribunal, whether it pleases it or not to the various majority, has very often issued judgments which were contrary to what the rulers wanted. You're trying to eliminate it because you have bad intentions. Watching this debate for a year now, I have the impression that we all - opposition, Europe, the European Parliament, the Venice Commission - are reminding tourists from Europe caught in the African bush by a lion and trying to convince the lion that it might be fun to be a vegetarian. Unfortunately, the lion is clearly drooling and we will not convince him that it is worth being a vegetarian, and we will not convince, I fear, the Law and Justice, that it is worth respecting the institutions of a democratic state. [[Who's talking?]] However, those who think that your assassination of a tribunal comes from some, say, purely emotional desire to change are wrong. This accusation can be referred to an ill-considered reform of education, to many unprofessional, ill-prepared actions that you take in the government, but the assassination of the tribunal is well-prepared and well-thought-out. From him you started your governments and consistently strive for the Constitutional Tribunal not to stand up for the Constitution. Nothing better illustrates and does not indicate what your true intentions are. You simply have bad intentions and plans to introduce law contrary to the Constitution in Poland. Here you can see your intentions as on a plate. [[Applause]] You are afraid of the Constitutional Tribunal regardless of who sits in it, as long as it is only your man, because it is very clear that you want to strive for the Constitutional Tribunal to be another instrument of good change. In your case, a good change means a really bad change for Poles. That's what everyone in the opposition says no matter how different they are. That's what Europe says. That's what the whole world says. You're doing the wrong thing, but I'm afraid you're not gonna back out of this way. On the other hand, as I recalled today from this stand during the debate about the anti-communist opposition, as well as when I said that governments and tribunals in Poland were able to prank different governments... [[A dream.]] ...so I want to tell you that your government will change someday. Your government will change someday, too, and the day Poles breathe in their normal freedom will come. It'll come sooner than you think. [[Applause]] [[Bure's day is coming.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u653	Mr Ireneusz Gaina made his statement in writing. [[Voice from the hall: Today is Friday, so he went home.]] I'd like to ask if they're still willing to join the list of people who want to ask a question. [[Other written submissions. It would make it easier for us.]] If not, I'm closing the list. Since many ladies and many Members have signed up for the question, I will set the time for the question to be asked for one minute. Mr Gierada will be the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u654	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We would like to say: Prime Minister, but with such an important debate, there is no one in the Chamber. [[Scandal.]] If I didn't know you, I'd think you were ashamed of this bill because you have something to be ashamed of. This bill is another assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal, it is to establish some kind of rules for specific persons, a person from a very well-known and widely-known family in Poland today, a family of Pisiewiczów. [[Applause]] I wonder today what the profile of Law and Justice as a party is, because you are certainly not a social democratic party, because you neither like democracy nor are you sensitive, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You are not a liberal party because you can enter Polish families with shoes... [[Get to the point.]] ...you're not a peasant party because you've done nothing for the village this year, you're not a conservative party, because conservativeism is respect for law and some kind of idea... [[But you and your shoes are getting into the newspaper.]] ...but you're definitely a national socialist party. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you realize that today you are bringing Poland onto the road that Germany followed in the 1930s before they became fascist Germans? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The ethics committee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u655	Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Cieślinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u656	Mr. Marshal! The least you'd like to say is Minister, but the government is gone. It's a sign of the validity of this bill. High Izbo, this is another, fifth or sixth law of repair of the PiS, it is worth adding that night. At noon, you passed one bill of repair that de facto devastates the Constitutional Tribunal, and before midnight, you want to celebrate and fix it. According to today's report of the UN Human Rights Committee, all the PiS has to do is stop breaking the constitution, publish judgments... [[Voice from the room: We won't publish.]] ...and take a vow from three properly elected judges of the tribunal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Six.]] I am pleased that you confirm this. This is the way to resolve the conflict... [[Your dream.]] ...not a psychic writing what and get on your knees with another repair bill, repairing it. Already fixed for the PiS law, which needed to be fixed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it wasn't fixed enough... [[Voice from the room: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u657	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u658	...at the time of the first PiS repair as a consequence of the implementation of repairs within the framework of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u659	Thank you very much, sir. Time has passed, sir, and please allow the question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u660	...so-called. A repair, a bad night shift. Why don't you just stop spoiling it? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u661	I ask you to ask Mr Michael Szczerba a question. [[You can't enter the Sejm in a white jacket. You don't come in pajamas.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u662	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This night and this project isn't known for years before the Szymon Majewski Show and it's not an embarrassing joke of the host, because this one's either asleep or watching rodeo. [[Applause]] This night, this project is a deadly serious matter. This law is a provision on how to elect the President of the Constitutional Tribunal of PiS. [[Is there a doctor in the O.R.?]] The term of office of President of Rzepliński ends on 19 December. [[Voices from the O.R.: Lucky for you.]] The whole operation of taking over the tribunal reminds Misiewicz of the seat of NATO counterintelligence in Warsaw. I've never met such a perfidious project prepared for a specific person. This bill will be a textbook example of scandalous lawmaking. Allowing three Usurper Judges to rule will be the end of the rule of law in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Time's up.]] She could announce it, just like the end of communism on public television...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u663	Sir, but for now...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u664	... Joanna Szczepakowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u665	...you're out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u666	One problem - there is no public television anymore, there is national television. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u667	I would ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Breja a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u668	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the PiS-owska recommunization is underway. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] The last time the UN Human Rights Committee dealt with Poland - do you know when? - in February 1982, martial law. These are the standards you're heading towards. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] But you've got it all wrong. What you're proposing: 70 years - the term of office of judges, the dismissal of judges by the government, the Minister of Justice in disciplinary proceedings. Mr. Piotrowicz, this is the bill. This is the law of 28 November 1961. You're not the author. The authors are Mr Aleksander Zawadzki and Mr Józef Cyrankiewicz. I don't know these people. [[Applause]] That's why I have a question: Did you get permission from them to have this project? Aren't we dealing with a plagiarism? [[Applause]] [[In the Snakes.]] Mr. District Attorney, very ugly. Very ugly. You're misleading the High House. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Time!]] I demand permission from Mr. Cyrankiewicz. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u669	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Gabriela Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u670	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a technical question, more specifically, about legislative technology. I wanted to ask you why there's no vocabulary in this bill. While here, in this House... [[Because it's a project.]] ...and in this country law no longer means law, and justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] It has long ceased to mean justice, a dictionary is necessary for understanding, especially defining what repair is, what is a code. - Unless you make a Star of the Rebours. We've learned that adversariality today means something different than what I've been taught. [[Voice from the room: Yes?]] It is necessary to define the word "ethics," because here a simple reversal is not enough. [[Applause]] [[You have a problem with that, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u671	Please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Wolf.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u672	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, under the cover of the night, we are talking about the Constitutional Court. This time, Members of the applicant, Members of Law and Justice have prepared a project - it has already been mentioned - which is a simple instruction on how to choose their own, i.e. PiS, President of the Constitutional Tribunal. Of course, it's a bad project, it's a harmful project. [[Why Harmful?]] I would like to ask the Members of the applicant: How many more projects will you think will heal the situation in the Constitutional Court, and will really destroy this Constitutional Tribunal? Because every project you make is more and more damaging to the tribunal, and to democracy. I would like to ask: How much longer will you have both the public opinion in Poland and the international opinion that you are democrats, that you are concerned with the good of the Constitutional Tribunal that you want to improve its work? One last question. You haven't considered any opinions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Venice Commission. Will you consider the report of the UN members' rights committee...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u673	Thank you, sir. And please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u674	...which commands the publication of a judgment and the cessation of such actions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u675	Thank you kindly, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u676	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, you are not listening to any international institutions. Nobody matters, no opinions matter. The PiS now has a monopoly on knowledge and the PiS is making another killing Constitutional Tribunal law to elect a specific president, and we all know that. For example: Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 4th draft provides that the General Assembly, which is to elect candidates as President of the Tribunal, shall be chaired by the Court's youngest judge. To date, he was the oldest judge in the tribunal who, for obvious reasons, enjoyed the greatest authority. [[We're betting on young people.]] Now it's gonna be the youngest intern, because it's gonna be a judge who's chosen by the PiS. We know why - so that he can preside in such a way that if something bad happens, if elections take a bad turn, one can - we already know it from the practice of the state - order e.g. Resuming such choices. The question is, can't you finally say it honestly? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u677	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. [[There's my sympathy.]] [[A little culture, peasants.]] [[But it was rude with that sympathy, sir.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u678	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Viewers! Here, on this side are the Members of the Law and Justice... [[There's a camera.]] ...who smile, mock, challenge the opposition. [[Lie!]] Do you know why? Just because we're talking... [[Don't lie to me.]] ...the Constitutional Court, the bill that the Law and Justice want to make at night. [[All of Poland laughs at you.]] A year ago, we heard about the first Constitutional Court Act, then at the second corrective, third corrective, fourth corrective, fifth corrective, and today we have the sixth corrective. Mr PiS Members, your inability to write laws is simply ridiculous. There's only one thing I'd like to say to you. Do you think that when it's nighttime, by quoting your fellow TVP president, the dark people won't notice? Ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] This people are very wise and everything...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u679	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u680	...will notice and show it to the free media tomorrow morning. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u681	And please take the floor of Mr Paweł Pudłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u682	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the context of the proposal we see, I would like to ask about the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and the result of the one-month period of the uncircumcised period, which we will surely witness. But I would really like to ask you today, after almost a year of effective blocking of the Constitutional Tribunal, whether, in your own conscience, you weigh on the one hand the effective blocking of it and the possibility of moving to the agenda with your proposals, which you are making, and on the other hand, the destruction of one of the most important courts in Poland. Do you, by weighing these two things, recognize that you are doing the right thing? Because the fact that it's unconstitutional is that it's funny about the next amendment, the next law, the next project, everyone can see. But do you think it was worth it? Because because the Constitutional Tribunal didn't work, you managed to do some things, introduce There's some laws... [[500+ did it.]] ...which, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the tribunal were to act...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u683	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u684	I'm sure they'd never show up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u685	I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Lieder a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u686	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Pursuant to Chapter 3, you are hereby appointed by the Registry of the Court and the Office of the Legal Service of the Court to replace the current Office of the Court. In the explanatory memorandum, you point out that the changes within the framework of the organisational and administrative working conditions of the Court will be an opportunity to verify the organisational structures and to analyse the suitability of individual cells for the implementation by the Constitutional Tribunal of its constitutional competences. So are you going to fire the insubordinate experts who will dare to have their own opinions, who will not want to follow the guidelines from Nowogrodzka, and in their place you will hire the Misiewiczs because you have a really short bench of experts? [[We'll hire the Burys.]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u687	I would ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski a question. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Maybe the marshal will react to this room, not participate in the same balland.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u688	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The violation of copyright is indeed a serious violation of the law, and Mr.Piotrowicz is probably aware that he will suffer the consequences of such an offence. Mr President, I have a question for you: do you sleep well? [[Get to the point.]] Because you are becoming such a hero of our democracy and I wonder if you are not sorry in these dreams if you sleep well or dream well that you are becoming an example of someone who will lead to the break of Polish democracy, to the annulment of it. I wonder if that makes any sense, that's all you're doing. Do you ever talk to yourself? [[He's happy.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] You really have a great sense of humor for a state attorney, so I wish you bad dreams. Torture your whole life, because I'm sure you'll remember that you've overturned Polish democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u689	I would like to ask Mr Zbigniew Konwiński a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u690	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this term of office, you have such manners that you do the most dirty things at night. [[Joy in the hall, applause, bell]] It's 11:30. You've been breaking the constitution for almost a year now, and you've been changing the Constitutional Court Act again. You won't be laughing if I remind you that in front of your crew, only one, also at night, broke the constitution. Do you know when this happened in such an impudent way? [[December 13th.]] From 12 to 13 December 1981 [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] And when we look at who represents you in today's debate, who is the applicant, it's no wonder, because that's what you get. But this is not the only one, after all, the former president of the PKP, whom you called, was TW Mieczysław, in ARiMR the career was to be done by TW Rudy - a party of secret co-workers - a companion of Jasiński in Orlen. As the marshal screamed at one of the demonstrations [[♪ The bell ♪]] at our address: all of Poland laughs at you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u691	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u692	I didn't know you guys were just introducing yourselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u693	And I would ask you to ask Mr Jack Protas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u694	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been a member for a year... [[The voice from the room: Oh, that's still a long time.]] ...and for these 12 months, I've witnessed an embarrassing spectacle of dismantling constitutional order in our country. In fact, you've done well in this regard. Today we are already the subject of special care not only of the Venice Commission, the European Commission or the European Parliament, but even of the UN. [[And the Eskimos.]] I'm asking if we've reached the bottom in this regard, if there's gonna be any more draft laws... [[They will be.]] Perhaps in the next draft you will write down the name of those who are to sit in the Constitutional Court and... [[That's what you guys did.]] ...who is to lead this committee, because I think it's time to clarify these issues more clearly than in this project we're dealing with, you can't. [[Applause]] [[Putin's praise is all that's left.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u695	I would ask you to ask Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u696	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! In fact, we're running out of dictionaries, we don't know what to say to such insolent... [[Joy in the hall, applause, bell]] against such an impertinent attempt on democracy that you've been leading for a year. For one year at a time, you have been breaking the rules, and during the year you have already carried out the Sixth Constitutional Court Act. Notice how incompetent you are at this, how inefficient you are trying to break the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Voice from the hall: We are incompetent?]] We're trying to resist, we're resisting right now, and I assure you, we're going to try to fix what you've ruined after this term. [[Voice from the room: A dream, a dream.]] I'm sure we won't make it. But besides all of this, you say such nonsense and nonsense, like the fact that... [[Voice from the room: Good night.]] ...this is the 1997 Act. I assure you that no one could have known in 1997 what Mrs Przyłębska and Mr Jędrzejewski's resume was, therefore, in 1997 there was certainly no record. If it was any competition for any position, it would just be a competition set. You should actually adopt a law that tells you directly who is the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You should be ashamed, and you have absolutely no shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u697	Thank you, Member. And I would like to ask Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u698	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's been a year since the election. On the day of the election evening, Prime Minister Szydło said: success is due to the fact that we did not break away from reality. Today's behaviour by Members of the Law and Justice in this House is the best proof of how much Prime Minister Szydło and her background have broken away from reality. [[Applause]] Prime Minister, I wish you were here, there are no ministers, but I appeal to you, go back to earth, look around, see how you treat Poles. [[Look at the polls.]] But see also - and there is proof in this Chamber, for the second time I address Members of Law and Justice - how the opposition is treated, how it is challenged in this Chamber, how it is defined in ugly words. And I will tell you more, how you behave, how you scream, what words you use for Members of the High House, is not right for you. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Example, please.]] [[It's a lie.]] And be ashamed, be ashamed, for this is proof of how you treat others as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u699	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u700	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! In fact, you look very good with communism. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But foreign investors, on average, like communism. The paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal is not only our internal affairs, but also our other countries and foreign investors are looking at us. Prime Minister Morawiecki can drive in the world and talk about how he is in love with the budget, but people who want to invest millions in Poland are not stupid. After all, they are looking at the political situation in Poland... [[Voice from the room: They listen to each other.]] [[Voice from the room: It's good, it's getting better.]] ...and see what power can do to a constitutional court. That's all the more reason she can do whatever she wants with them. As they see how the authorities treat the Venice Commission, which they invite, and then the Marshal ironically says that they came to visit Warsaw, how they treat the UN, the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, they see that there is nothing to invest in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And destroying them is just gonna be a snap of a finger. Not the middle one, though. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Yes, you would like it.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mercedes is an investment of the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u701	I would like to ask the question of Mr Jarosław Urbaniak. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u702	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you the basic question: Why do you Sovietize the Polish justice system? And I'm not saying that the PiS face of all these attacks on the justice system is the state's attorney. [[Voice from the room: Comrade.]] The point is that you're ruining and denying the justice system independence. But you're still doing an absolutely stupid thing. Wise people, wise nations listen in a special way... [[The voice from the room: In the platform it is definitely.]] ...in the voice of wise people, former presidents, prime ministers, presidents of the Supreme Court, former judges of the Constitutional Tribunal... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...because they were, they don't have to do anything anymore. [[Voice from the room: Lucky for you.]] They're completely independent. To take their voice away from them, to shut their mouths is to sovetize them. And that's a huge silly thing to do. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u703	The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Kobyliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u704	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Complainer! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 4 (2) of the proposal indicates that the term of office of the President of the Tribunal shall not expire if the Judge of the Tribunal has been appointed President six months before the age of 70, in accordance with the procedure laid down in separate provisions, of a certificate that he is fit to perform his duties as Judge of the Tribunal. According to the designers, this provision has to be read as an article. Paragraph 194. 2nd Constitution, which states that the President and Vice-President of the Tribunal appoints the President of the Republic of Poland from among the candidates presented by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal? After all, the provision cited in the Constitution leaves no doubt that the General Assembly can present the candidate to the President regardless of his age. Since a judge of any age may be a candidate of the assembly, even more than 70 years old, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no... there's no... there's no... there's no... there's no...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u705	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u706	...the legal basis for accepting the admissibility of the President's term of office after a certain age has been reached. Answer me, Mr. Applicant. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u707	Thank you very much, sir, because time has passed. I ask you to ask Mr Wojciech the King.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u708	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Piotrowicz, there is much you can read about on the Internet and you have not signed up to be proud on the pages of history. [[You signed up.]] You fought, you chased opponents, you chased people fighting for freedom, for better Poland. Do you ever wonder what they're gonna read about you, what they're gonna write about you for the next 26 years? [[What about you?]] [[Voice from the room: Nothing about you.]] You have become a symbol of the fight against the Constitution of the PiS. You have become a symbol of the fight between the PiS and the Constitutional Tribunal. Wouldn't you just be ashamed? After this bill has been passed, we will not live in a state of law. [[He doesn't know what shame is.]] We will live in the PiS state, and with law and justice you have only a common name. You two have nothing else in common. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Weak!]] [[Voice from the room: Now maybe something will be better.]] [[Voice from the room: Come on, hard!]] [[Would you please shut up the Muppet show?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u709	The question is asked by Artur Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u710	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney, because that's where you felt great, tell me, you're in the PiS for that power, aren't you? [[Applause]] You're a great performer of the role of a man who's gonna be... I wanted to use a word, but I'm afraid I'll even offend people like that. [[Voice from the room: Look at your colleagues.]] Tell me, Mr. District Attorney, do you really feel good about this whole show you're doing for President Kaczyński? Yes? Do you like it? You feel great, like a fish in the water, like a commune. [[Voice from the room: Don't insult me.]] I have a big question because these are questions, so I'm gonna ask you a question. Mr. District Attorney, are you going to withdraw from this bill, this law that's despicable like the whole vile change that you've been preparing for Poland for a year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ojojoj...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u711	I ask Mr Marcin Porzuck to ask a question. [[Voice from the room: The dove of peace.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u712	Nemo judex in causa sua, no one should be a judge on their own case. [[If you don't know how to accent Latin, don't use it.]] For almost a year now, some of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, supported by the anti-democrats who have been removed from power, have ignored this principle. The organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Tribunal shall be governed by a law. Do the proposed solutions fit into the Article. 197 constitutions, the highest law of the Republic of Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u713	I ask you to ask Marcin Święcicki a question. [[Voice from the hall: We will not insult the member now.]] [[Room voice: Comrade Marcin, sharp.]] [[Voice from the room: Something from Cyrankiewicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u714	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For 25 years Poland has earned a great reputation among countries undergoing transformation due to economic transformation, because of our local government. The Constitutional Tribunal was also modelled for other countries. [[Voice from the room: Especially with Łętowska.]] You do everything you can to destroy this reputation... [[Voice from the room: Yes, comrade.]] ...by paralyzing laws, by intimidating judges, by taking an oath in the middle of the night, before the judgment of the tribunal, which was due to collapse in the morning, by refusing to take an oath properly chosen judges. This law is another step in destroying Poland's reputation. She doesn't solve anything about the comments of the Venice Commission, the European Parliament, the European Commission and now the UN Human Rights Committee. Unfortunately, you're ruining Poland's reputation and you don't even realize it. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Congratulations, it was burnt out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u715	Because the list of Members voted in has been exhausted... [[Voice from the room: Pity, still!]] [[Voice from the room: More!]] [[Voice from the hall: The more they talk, the more they sink.]] You're welcome... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I would like, before I ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz... I did not want to address these alleged questions when I asked questions, but the honourable Members, all those who believe that there is a dictatorship in Poland, a despicable change, I recommend that you take a look at the transcripts, those of your today's questions. With these questions, you have actually insulted both Mr Piotrowicz, Prime Minister Kaczyński and the ruling party. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: A prosecutor!]] [[Voice from the hall: What was he in war?]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the fact that this debate is really taking place at this time of day, because perhaps, and even certainly, the evaluation of the work of the High House after the kind of performance you have just presented, has yet to go down. [[Voice from the room: You have to be careful.]] Mr President, as Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, I apologise to you for what you just had to hear from the opposition Members. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Communists and thieves.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] You're welcome, sir. [[All of Poland is laughing at you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u716	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Contrary to appearances, I listened to your speeches with great satisfaction. There has been a great deal of powerlessness in your speeches, [[Applause]] and the height of this powerlessness was the insulting of the Member of the applicant. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What was the insult?]] But also in this respect, the state's actions were inept, because in order to offend me, the words offensive must be spoken by someone. [[Voice from the room: Jarosław.]] [[Voice from the room: What was offensive?]] [[Maybe you're a rapist.]] So those words that were here didn't impress me at all. [[Applause]] And I want you to remember that once and for all. [[A paedophile priest is the best.]] In the statements of the state there are mainly complexes. The complexes that were, for example, that in all the speeches in which there were basically not many questions, and to those I would refer to in a moment, it was striking what would others think of us? - what such an institution would say, what the National Court of Justice would say, what would the Supreme Court say, etc., etc. [[But it doesn't matter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are the representatives of the nation, you are the Members. This isn't the place to look at other people. You represent your constituents here. [[That's what we're talking about.]] The opinions can be used and fed, but you want to hide the opinions of various others. And what they think about us abroad is constantly breaking through in their speeches. And for me, the most important thing is what my people think of me. [[Applause]] [[That's right, amen.]] Have you noticed that you have noticed that politicians from respectable countries should say: What do others think of us? First of all, they care about their own nations, they have a sense of dignity, and the state often behave like slaves who do not dare to defend their own people and their own state. You're just looking for applause from others. [[Voice from the O.R.: They're reporting.]] [[Voice from the room: Traitors.]] [[Voice from the hall: Informers.]] I think it's a weakness. Similarly, lack of substantive arguments is a weakness. [[The weakness is belonging to the Council of Europe.]] In fact, the question was this: Why did we take the term of president - 6 years, not 5 years, not 3 years? Well, if I had listened carefully to my speech, it would probably have been noticed that we had introduced an equivalent solution to this in the case of the Supreme Court President and the President of the Supreme Administrative Court. You don't read or listen to a project when there's a presentation. Similarly, it was surprising why we shorten our term of office, why medical certificates, etc., etc. Many of you have said that. So I would like to say that such records are nowhere at all, so once again you are separated from the text, little of that, some of you have spoken about the wrong law. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you really need to have an extremely weak memory in order not to remember that a few hours earlier we adopted the Act on the Status of Judges, deciding in this Act that there will be no medical certificates. It wasn't like you weren't paying attention or thinking right now. [[Applause]] Not to mention that some of the questions came down not to this bill, which we are now investigating, but to the bill that we decided a few hours ago. You can see that this powerlessness, this powerlessness, is all about insults and insults. There are no substantive questions at all. Not much, on the other hand, I also have such undiscovered satisfaction. In fact, what have you criticized about this project? [[I'll set it up.]] Apart from empty words, offensive, uncoverable, you have not criticized anything. [[Art. 11.]] Except for the article. 11, this is OK. You do not like the fact that President Rzepliński is about to end his term of office and that he will not be able to identify his successor. That's what you're talking about. And we want the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to decide on the successor, not President Rzepliński, of whom the Vice President says he is immortal. Ladies and gentlemen, he may be right, but his term of office is running out. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u717	The discussion is closed. (prerogative) [[Why not standing up?]] A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. That's where we've exhausted the agenda. 29th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Because none of the ladies and gentlemen of the House have come forward... [[Statement.]] There's a statement, right? Two people, right? I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska will make her first statement. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u718	Ladies and gentlemen! The debate is over. Following President Peterovich's speech, the opposition Members did not have the opportunity to speak, but I wanted to comment in my statement on a passage from the President, who had comments on the behaviour of the opposition Members. Let me quote one of the comments that came at the end of this debate from those watching this debate. And here's the point: the behaviour of the PiS Members is so primitive that they should be immediately expelled from the Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful!]] [[A voice from the courtroom: But you are a marshal defending the prosecutors of martial law.]] [[Voice from the room: You should be removed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u719	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u720	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's very late, but it's important. The case concerns a school in the north of the United States, Salem, which has operated for 26 years. These are, you can say, the runes, the northern part itself, a large group of Poles. The school grew over the past 26 years, now has nearly 70 students, changed its location and so it has been until now. This year she should once again change the place where the lessons will take place. Despite the reaction of parents, teachers, the entire Polish community and requests sent to the new ambassador, to the ambassador, who has been very recently, to the consul, no response. This is very bad, because Polish school, each school of supplementary subjects should be valued and respected. This school has been created and continues with particular difficulty. The absence of any reaction proves a complete lack of interest. Therefore, I allow myself to inform and appeal for our diplomatic services to react to help Poles who cannot manage themselves, and thus this group of children, which would probably be bigger in the future, will remain without our view of this most important care, i.e. without the possibility of learning Polish language and Polish culture. It may also be added that school in such a place is not only an educational school for children, but also for adults. It is in this school that there are dozens of adults, these are parents of Polish origin, Polish roots, or Americans who have decided to learn Polish. This will also be directed against them by this act of closing the school, because it is they who become ambassadors of Polishness. Finally, every school is such a Polish house, this is the place where Poland is spoken about, where Poland is promoted, and in this school even a festival of Polish films was created not only for the Polish community, but for the entire American community, so the loss will be huge. We must do everything to ensure that our diplomatic services, even if they have been there recently, show more commitment and heart for this matter, for this school and for Polonia. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-sejm-29-2.u721	Thank you, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. (War. Wielkopolska) Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 29th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 30th session of the Sejm, convened on 15 and 16 November 2016, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 23 min 53]]
