ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Mr Wojciech King, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Mr Łukasz Schreiber and Mrs Monica Wielichowska to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members of Wojciech the King and Arkadiusz Myrch will be in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Arkadiusz Myrch and Monika Wielichowska. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 9, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10, - Justice and Human Rights together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - at 3 p.m. 10, - to the European Union - immediately after the end of the votes, about an hour. 11.15, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 11.15, - Public Finance - hour. 11.30, - to State Control - 11.30, - Health-- hour. 12, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13, - Social and Family Policy together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Health - at 13, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies jointly with the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Public Finance - hour. 15, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 15, - Agriculture and Rural Development in cooperation with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 15, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 3.30 p.m., - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at 3 p.m. 16, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 5:30 p.m., - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 18. Today there will also be meetings of parliamentary teams: - Parliamentary Group for: Police - hour 10.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 14.15, - Parliamentary Group for: regulation of the pharmaceutical market - h. 16. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u3	Thank you very much. The competent committees submitted a report on the draft Law on the ratification of the 2014 Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention, adopted on 23 February 2006 in Geneva, approved on 11 June 2014 in Geneva by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm give its consent for the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. You will be the first to ask Members: Mrs Iwona Arent and Mr Jan Warzecha from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question about spending EU funds is addressed to the Minister for Development. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mr Adam Hamryszczak will answer. I'd like to ask you a question. First Mrs Iwona Arent. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! They reach my office, to me information about very numerous negative decisions in connection with the consideration of co-financing projects from the Regional Operational Programme of Warmia-Mazury Voivodship for the years 2014 and 2020 in the field of energy efficiency improvement. The information that has been provided to me shows that the problem of low spending of EU funds can actually affect the whole country. A case-by-case analysis shows that most applications are already rejected at the formal evaluation stage. The fact that there is further concern is a discrepancy between the general principles on the design of projects and those applied by intermediate bodies. According to the information I obtained, for example, the Regional Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in Olsztyn is calculated differently, for example. CO2 emissions rather than those obliged to do so by energy auditors who benefit from general principles. This should not be the reason for rejecting projects, but it is. Furthermore, from the information provided to me which is a case-by-case study, which does not only concern this axis, it appears that competitions are subject to such requirements that the level of spending currently may be less than 5%. I wanted to point out here that this information isn't just from one person, it's from one source. This suggests a great deal of beneficiaries who seek such measures to inform me of this. I'm also getting information that maybe [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a political issue, a result of a political decision, not a substantive one. The point is that the Government of Law and Justice has nothing to boast about - that EU funds have been used - so they simply use as little as possible, and they make use of it. Simply decisions are positive to use these resources. And the question is: Does the Ministry of Development have such information about spending across the country? What's the level of that in Warmia and Mazury? How long do they have to wait for my region's beneficiaries to settle their recruitments?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u5	Thank you very much, Member. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Development, of course, has detailed data on European spending as part of the implementation of projects co-financed by European Union funds. A system of reporting and monitoring has been put in place to monitor the financial progress, as well as all of them. in-kind effects in all programmes implemented in this financial perspective. The main database is the SL2014 IT system in which data are aggregated into categories such as:: calls, applications for funding, advances and applications for payment, checks and certification of expenditure to the European Commission. The managing authorities of regional operational programmes shall also have similar systems of a local nature. The cooperation between local systems and the central system of SL2014 therefore makes it possible to provide the most accurate and up-to-date data relating to the state of implementation of both national and regional programmes. To answer the next question, I would like to stress that by 15 September 2016 16 regional programmes launched 1114 calls for nearly PLN 46 billion - EU funding - which represents almost 34% allocation for the years 2014 to 2020 The competitions announced are mostly dedicated to activities financed by the European Regional Development Fund, about 70% Ww. amounts, while for the thematic objectives financed by the European Social Fund, the value of calls currently amounts to around 30%. More than 17,6 thousand have been made available in all the calls run by 16 regional programme managing bodies. applications for funding. Their value is about PLN 45.7 billion, including funding from the European Union is about PLN 30.5 billion. This amount amounts to around 22,5% allocation for 16 regional operational programmes. Prominent leaders are programmes of Podkarpackie and Pomeranian voivodships, in which the value of applications for funding after formal evaluation exceeds 40% allocation for a given programme. To date, over 3.2 thousand have been signed. projects with a value of more than PLN 11 billion, including European Union funding of about PLN 8.5 billion. Approximately 6.2% were distributed as a result. the allocation available. In terms of the level of contracting, i.e. the allocation allocated on the basis of contracts, of course, two voivodships are such leaders: Pomeranian and Wielkopolska, where the use of the allocation is 17% respectively. and 15% . In terms of the contracted amount, the two above mentioned amounts. voivodships are equal to the Śląskie voivodship, and due to the high allocation of the value of contracts signed so far in this region, this represents around 7% resources available. The value of documented expenditure of beneficiaries amounts to over PLN 1 billion, including the European Union funds transferred to beneficiaries on the basis of payment claims submitted is nearly PLN 877 million, which represents 0.6% allocation. In the whole Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship 766 applications for funding of PLN 1.3 billion were registered, including EU funding of PLN 992 million. This represents 13% allocation and location of warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship currently on 12th place in all regional operational programmes. However, the level of cultivation is only 1,7% allocation, which places the region at its last position as regards all regional operational programmes. [[Is there anything you can do about it?]] The overall low level of payments also refers to the Regional Operational Programme of Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodship, where payments made for PLN 58 million from EU funds represent 0,5% allocation for the programme. This is, of course, the correlation between contracting and payments. [[Is there anything you can do about it?]] There was also a question about how long the beneficiaries in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship have to wait for the settlement of recruitments against the background of other regions. The Regional Operational Programme of Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship has so far announced 85 calls for project funding in the contest mode within all priority axes. The duration of the call, calculated from the first day to the last day of the application for funding, is actually different depending on the axis, action or sub-action - from 11 calendar days to up to 107 days. The average duration of recruitment under the RPO of the Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship is about 31 calendar days, while the average duration of recruitment under all 16 RPOs is about 60 calendar days. On average, the beneficiaries of the RPO of Warmińsko-Mazurskie Voivodeship are waiting 115 days to settle the recruitments, and on average in all voivodships this process lasts about 187 days. That's what it looks like right now. On the other hand, on the basis of information obtained from managing authorities [[♪ The bell ♪]] The RPO of Warmińsko-Mazurskie Voivodship should be noted that energy efficiency measures have introduced one way of reducing CO2 emissions in order to apply the same methodology to which the beneficiaries submitting the application must adapt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u7	Thank you, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mr Jan Warzech. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u8	Thank you. Minister! I wanted to refer to what we heard. However, these indicators for the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship are not the best, but additional measures in the hands of citizens stimulate consumption, stimulate the development of the economy. Each investment that is carried out by means of these measures is additional work for professionals, producers and contractors. However, in order to mobilise this type of economic stimulus, funding is needed for the preparation of new investments. It is worth noting at this point that the information that has been provided to us shows that only beneficiaries with usually complete technical documentation can join the competitions, which is a significant expenditure for many. As they claim, systematic rejection of applications in this situation is extremely harmful and brings damage. And here, Minister, one question: Have all the project selection criteria been adopted by the monitoring committee? Thank you. [[And what can be done to improve in Warmia and Mazury...]] And what the Warmia and Mazury parliamentarians should do to improve the efficiency of the use of resources [[♪ The bell ♪]] RPO? Thank you. [[Or maybe the Ministry?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u9	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the regional programme of the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship and the criteria for selecting projects, a total of 84 actions and sub-measures have been adopted... That is 84 actions and sub-measures have been designated in the regional operational programme, while so far the criteria for 70 actions and sub-measures have been adopted, which represents more than 83% all criteria. At the forthcoming meeting of the monitoring committee to be held on 28 September, it is planned to adopt criteria for subsequent actions and sub-measures. The criteria for 10 actions and sub-measures in the area of financial instruments, health infrastructure and social services will remain for approval. However, it should be noted in this point that the above currently does not affect the delay in the implementation of the RP, as measures for which no criteria have been adopted are currently not expected to receive calls in the near future. That's what it looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Mrs Małgorzata Pępek and Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - question on action to eliminate air pollution in Poland addressed to the Minister for the Environment. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, Minister Mariusz Gajda, will answer. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The last report of the World Health Organization on air quality is devastating for Poland, and especially for the Silesian voivodeship. The Żywiec turned out to be the most polluted city in Europe. The necessary large organisational and financial scale of action to protect and improve air quality exceeds the possibility of self-financing by local government. The Regional Environmental Fund in Katowice implements a pilot low-emission decommissioning programme through individual grants covering the replacement of heating boilers. The interest in the first job was very high. Over 1,500 applications for funding were submitted. They will only be obtained by half of the applicants, of which only two people from the Żywiecki district will receive them. Therefore, I have questions: When should we expect another selection of proposals under the low-emission decommissioning programme in the Śląskie voivodship? Is it possible to match the selection criteria in this programme so that people from the most polluted cities have priority in obtaining a subsidy covering the purchase of heating boilers? Will this be considered? This is a huge problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u13	Thank you, Member. And I ask the Minister to speak, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to say this: at the moment, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management is carrying out a verification of all these programmes. I would like to remind you that there was a "Kawka" programme, i.e. the elimination of low emissions supporting growth energy efficiency and the development of distributed renewable energy sources, as well as the "Fish" programme, i.e. the thermomodernisation of buildings. There was also the Prosumer programme, i.e. the use mainly of solar energy for heating purposes. The situation is that, unfortunately, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management does not have enough resources to grant all these programmes. Action has therefore been taken to achieve a much better environmental and economic impact than has been the case so far. The problem so far was that the previous national management board of the Fund did not have a sound financial plan, which made the funds allocated to these programmes insufficient. The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in the first half of 2016 carried out a comprehensive review, evaluation and verification of its priority programmes, including in the field of atmospheric protection. The results of these in-depth analyses were used to prepare a new offer, taking into account all available national and foreign resources. In view of the overlap between the areas of support for the programmes: "Kawka', "Fish' and 'Prosumer', and the need to adapt the national offer of the fund to the real needs and conditions of the regions, it was decided to create a new, uniform and flexible support mechanism for the projects so far financed under the three above. programs. As agreed at the Convention of the Governor of the Provincial Funds for Environmental Protection and Water Management, which took place at the end of June this year, the national fund decided to redirect these tasks to the voivodship funds that are closer to the local community. A new, comprehensive instrument called the Region to support the fight against low emissions will be addressed to the regions through individual voivodship funds. The terms and conditions of the new programme should be known in the fourth quarter of this year. Nevertheless, I would still like to say here that the national fund did not agree with the provision of financial resources in the third call for the programme of PLN 120 million and the recruitment for the programme of Ryss: the refusal for six voivodeship funds, the conclusions of the remaining four funds were not included in the budget of the call, which was PLN 100 million. Nevertheless, within the framework of the programme, the National Fund signed 22 agreements with 12 voivodship funds, for a total amount of PLN 174 million. Only two of these agreements have been fully financed and completed ecologically. The remaining 12 contracts are in progress. So far, only 74 million PLN has been paid out, and 100 million PLN remains to be paid. I just wanted to stress that these programmes were inefficient if they were not implemented despite the grants. In the first two editions almost 640 million PLN was released, 60 cities benefited, 35 thousand were liquidated. coal kilns and 9,000. low emission heat sources. The National Fund has expanded its offer with the following programmes: The point is to start solving this problem comprehensively, because the individual solution - what you have advocated - is unfortunately economically inefficient and it would take so much money to do so that simply the national fund could not afford it. It is much better to implement some comprehensive solutions such as the expansion of district heating networks than to replace individual furnaces, which unfortunately gives little environmental effect. Nevertheless, the voivodship funds may continue to do such things, but within their resources, as well as in preferential loans. I would also like to say that the Minister of Energy Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski has signed an agreement with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management on comprehensive advice on reducing, among others. low emissions. More detailed information will be provided in writing because my time is running out right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u15	Thank you, Minister. And I would ask you to ask an additional question to Mrs Henryka Krzywonos-Strycharska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management has launched a programme for the improvement of air quality, for which 1 billion PLN is to be allocated, of which up to 300 million will be allocated for grants and up to 700 million PLN - for preferential loans. There are two types of tasks: first, the energy use of geothermal resources... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Geothermal.]] ...for which only entrepreneurs may be the beneficiaries of the measures. And the second type of task is to reduce energy consumption in construction. This is about the thermomodernization of buildings of special importance, i.e. historical buildings, museums, hospices, dorms, medical facilities, as well as churches and church buildings. In this fund programme [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is no possibility of funding for individuals. I would like to ask why the implementation of the effective programs "Kawka" and "Fig" were abandoned and if there is a chance that the resort will return to their continuation. In Kościerzyn, recently the Kawka programme was completed with great success. The question is therefore important in this point: What proposals and programmes are being prepared for local governments and households in the area of the replacement of heating boilers and the thermomodernization of facilities in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u17	Thank you, Member. And you're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u18	Thank you very much. (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to say that the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management is to do so on a country-wide scale, i.e. it has a more programmed role and finances the Regional Environmental Protection and Water Management Funds in this area: in terms of grants and preferential loans, i.e. these activities should be undertaken by the Voivodship Environmental and Water Management Funds, which are the tools of the Marshal of the Voivodship. It is difficult for the national fund, without even knowing regional problems, to receive individual requests from individual households. This role should be played by the voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management, and therefore, as I said earlier, a programme was created, an instrument called the Region, which will be aimed at combating low emissions through individual voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management. So that it is not true that the national fund is giving up these instruments. They will continue, but through voivodship funds. I would also like to make it quite clear here that these various proportions that you have been talking about here are 30%. grants, 70% preferential loans - this must be maintained because both the national environmental fund and the voivodship environmental funds have limited resources. And now the point is to take these actions in such a way that they are actions with financial instruments, not just pure subsidies, because it is known that where there is a certain financial instrument in the form of a very preferential loan, low interest or practically interest-free, then this money is used much more effectively. Thank you very much. [[Marshal, can I have one sentence?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u19	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u20	Minister, but you mentioned that the Regional Environmental and Water Management Funds do not have a financial plan. For me, it's unimaginable so that there are no plans prepared with special care. And if there are regions that are in such a dramatic situation as the town of Żywiec, and support is needed, then why are financial resources planned that are not taken into account? We're just gonna...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u21	Thank you so much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u22	...to fight for that money because you can't live there. It is very harmful to the health of the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u23	Yeah, I get it. If you don't mind, Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u24	Please, of course. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: I understand that, but here I am asking for the Regional Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in Katowice. I know that they have limited resources, but let this voivodship fund also possibly turn to the national fund under the Region programme. So it has to be a certain flow of funds not directly from the national fund, because even if there was an exception for a region or a city, imagine that at this point many regions would start returning to the national fund, and it should be the voivodship fund that should make a financial plan to implement these projects. These are independent - independent, I emphasize - units supervised by the Marshal of the voivodship. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Ms Agnieszka Ścigaj and Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz club15, ask a question about the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 of 7 September 2016 in the section on social assistance. Question addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska will answer. The question is first asked by Mrs Agnieszka Chasing. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, The Minister of Finance submitted a draft around budget law of 7 September 2016. My question mainly concerns the project in the section on social assistance, Art. 15. In this project it is proposed to freeze subsidies for environmental self-help homes for people with mental disorders for a period of 2 years. Actually, the only explanation is that you're looking for savings. I would like to remind you that the law that guaranteed the de facto stability of these environmental self-help homes, the facilities on 5 August 2015 was signed by President Andrzej Duda, and before that, no one from Law and Justice in the committee, when the act that guaranteed it was being processed, made any comments. Now the Minister is looking for savings in spending on disabled and sick people. The Minister knows the reality of these facilities, you know that they are very important that they play a very important role. We have over 1 million people in Poland who suffer from various types of mental illness. This number doesn't decrease every year. These facilities are often the second home for these people and often provide health care, because these people, because they can be there, do not have to go to a hospital for treatment, where it is much more expensive. You can't save money on these people just because they can't scream loudly. And they can't take care of their needs. Minister, I wanted to ask you, in advance of your opinion on this proposal by the Minister of Finance. Are you going to agree to these budget cuts? And if so, I would like to know what the savings will be for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u26	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in the Act of 5 August 2015 amending the Law on Social Assistance in Article. 2 it is noted that in 2016 and 2017 the amount of the grant is 200%, in 2018 and 230%. This is in line with the Budget Act. Therefore, the draft law proposes a one-year increase in the level of the special subsidy allocated to the activities of the SDS. On the other hand, the Social Assistance Act states that the voivodeship annually fixes the average monthly amount of the grant per participant of the support centre for people with mental disorders, including for ŚDS at a rate of not less than 250% , and for self-help clubs of not less than 80%. As a result of the proposed amendment to the Around Budget Act, the level of the special subsidy in 2017 for the activities of support centres for people with mental disorders will be at the level of 2016, i.e. 200%. , with an increase in 2016 compared to 2015, will be 230% in 2018 and 250% in 2019 In accordance with the amendment of the Social Assistance Act. It should therefore be made clear that this proposed change in no way constitutes a reduction in the funding of SDSs, will only result in a one-year shift in the level of grants. To cut to the chase, I would like to explain what the Member has said about the bill under review in the previous term and the agreement of the PiS Members. At the stage of the work on amendments to the Social Assistance Act, there was a lower income criterion for the solo economy and it amounted to PLN 542 when the Social Assistance Act was amended. Therefore, when the Social Assistance Act was being processed, this subsidy in calculations was to be in 2016, i.e. present, PLN 1084, in 2017 - PLN 1246 and in 2018?1355. From 1 October, however, the income criterion was changed to PLN 634. As a result, already in 2000 the grant for the DS amounted to PLN 1268, i.e. more than it originally provided for the amendment of the Social Assistance Act in 2017, in 2017, after the amendment, after the change of criterion - 1458,20. zł and in 2018 - 1585 zł Thus, the amount of the grant in force in the current year is higher than the amount of the grant calculated for 2017, in accordance with the criterion in force at that time and the social assistance law amended at that time. I will also say that the preliminary analysis of the draft budget law for 2017 shows that social assistance tasks, including multi-annual programmes, are planned to increase by around 2%, i.e. about PLN 178 million, and our task is to develop the DDS very strongly, as you can see. This year at the DS we had more funds of about 90 million. The amount for the increase in grants was around 65 million, the amount for new start-ups - around 23 million. Therefore, we need to secure resources for the newly emerging DS and subsidies for these houses. We have a very clear and clear policy. Our goal is to have as little white spots as possible on the map of Poland, where there are no SDS. We want the DDS to be universal, accessible to the general public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u28	Thank you very much. Additional question, Madame, is it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u29	Yeah, I'd like to ask. In that case, I can understand that the Ministry is not planning to challenge this cut because it remains in the position that there will actually be an frozen increase which was guaranteed by the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u30	Yes, my fellow Member. For this year, I agree with the position that we are able to freeze with increased measures of more than 90 million compared to 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u31	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Ms Cornelia Wróblewska, Ms Joanna Augustynowska, Ms Ewa Lieder, Ms Elżbieta Stępień and Ms Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, on the income criterion for maintenance fund benefits after raising the minimum wage from 1 January 2017. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska will answer. The first question is asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder. Please, Madame, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u32	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The lowest national from 1 January 2017 will be PLN 2000 gross. Prime Minister Beata Szydło signed a regulation on the subject of 9 September 2016, on the grounds that she is guided by the dignity of Polish citizens. According to BIG InfoMonitor, the maintenance fund receives about 300,000. children, so many debtors are entered in one debtor register by the municipalities and 700,000. The children are outside the criterion. Once the minimum wage has been raised, the number of children deprived of the maintenance fund will increase to 30%, i.e. a million children will not receive maintenance and their dignity is definitely at risk. The criterion authorising the collection of maintenance support from the maintenance fund has not been changed since 2007, although the minimum wage in Poland in 2007 was PLN 697 net and the criterion was 103% that amount. Since 1 January 2017, the lowest national wage is PLN 1459 net and the criterion is 50% that amount. A parent with one child who receives a minimum salary will not receive maintenance support from the maintenance fund because he will exceed the income criterion set out in the State Aid Act to persons entitled to maintenance by 9 PLN. The social minimum according to the Institute of Labour and Social Affairs was 1787 PLN, so a parent with one child who will earn 1459 PLN, does not receive alimony and has income below the poverty line. My question is: Does the government therefore take this fact into account and plans to abolish the threshold for the use of the maintenance fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u33	Thank you very much. And I ask you to answer the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy pays particular attention to the protection of the rights of persons unable to support themselves and to the need for adequate support of them, in particular families with dependent children. In fact, the development of such an efficient and stable family policy is one of the most important lines of action of our ministry. I would like to stress very clearly that we see the importance of the problem of the universality of non-alimentation and the associated unsatisfactory efficiency and effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services for children. It is therefore necessary to take a number of measures, not only of a legislative nature, which will aim to tackle the phenomenon of non-alimentation on a systematic basis. I would like to stress that the execution of alimony is carried out by bailiffs on the basis of the Civil Procedure Code and the Bill on bailiffs and the implementing rules for this bill. It is the effectiveness of judicial bailiffs that depends primarily on the level of the execution of alimony. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy does not have the means to influence the effectiveness and manner in which bailiffs execute judicial decisions, including alimony decisions. The issue of the execution of alimony by bailiffs, as well as the provisions of the Penal Code that penalize the phenomenon of non-alination, is a matter for the Minister of Justice. However, under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy under the Law of 7 September 2007 on assistance to persons entitled to maintenance, material support shall be provided to persons entitled to maintenance who do not receive them because of the ineffectiveness of the execution. This support is then granted from the maintenance fund for persons meeting the statutory criteria. The income criterion which entitles you to benefits from the maintenance fund, as it was said, is PLN 725 net. Height ww. the income criterion for entitlement to maintenance fund benefits may be amended under the Law on assistance to persons entitled to maintenance. On the other hand, I would like to stress very strongly that the benefits from the maintenance fund, because here is the essence, are in principle feedback. The State, through the maintenance fund, lends to the maintenance debtor, guaranteeing that the maintenance creditor receives the statutory maintenance. Thus, in practice benefits from the maintenance fund are benefits financed by the State budget, since the rate of reimbursement of these benefits from maintenance debtors is low in effectiveness. She was 13% in 2015. In 2015, almost PLN 1.5 billion was spent on maintenance benefits from the state budget, while debtors paid back around 193 million. Therefore, given that the maintenance fund benefits are paid from the State budget, it must be concluded that it is currently not possible to refer this form to all persons entitled to maintenance who do not receive them because of the - it must be stressed - the inefficiencies of execution. Therefore, the availability of these benefits is conditioned, among others. the fulfilment of the income criterion. It should also be stressed that this increase, possibly an increase in the income criterion, is therefore linked to the rate of return - what I said was that this return was the essence - by maintenance debtors already paid benefits from the maintenance fund, and this in turn depends mainly on the effectiveness of executions carried out by bailiffs. In view of the above, it must be said that work is not being done in this direction at this stage. However, it must be said that we are in contact with the Ministry of Justice in order to develop comprehensive solutions to counter the phenomenon of non-alimentation. The policy direction is not to increase the income criterion and to finance it from the state budget, on the contrary, to change public awareness. This is why we want to have a social campaign this year to raise the issue of non-alimentation and encourage the payment of alimony. At the same time, it should be pointed out that on 16 September of the same year the Ministry of Justice referred to the agreement a draft amendment to the Penal Code law, which amends the Penalization Penalization of the Article. 209 k.k.a. The aim of the project is to extend the conditions for the criminality of maintenance by maintenance debtors and consequently [[♪ The bell ♪]] strengthening the implementation of the maintenance obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u35	Thank you. Additional question, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u36	According to the data provided by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy in the information on the implementation of the Law on assistance to persons entitled to maintenance in 2014, the effectiveness of the measures taken against maintenance debtors was 8.3% and the total expenditure on maintenance funds amounted to approximately 1.5 billion. Is the amendment of the Penal Code proposed by the Minister of Justice, in the section on Article. 209, it is envisaged to abandon the sign of persistence in the avoidance of the obligation to care and the sign of exposure entitled to the inability to satisfy basic life needs for a more objective determination, e.g. in the form of maintenance arrears, the total amount of which exceeds the sum of three periodic benefits, or a delay in the performance of a non-temporary cash benefit, [[♪ The bell ♪]] longer than three months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u37	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam, I pointed out the most recent figures in 2015, and there was 13%. But it's on a very low... [[Terrible, very weak.]] ...the rate of return is at a very low level, which is why there's this mechanism I've been trying to describe. These conditions, as mentioned by your Member, are taken into account in this revision of the Penal Code, yes. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u39	Thank you very much. We move on to the next question asked by Mr Dariusz Starzycki, Mr Andrzej Gawron and Mr Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Question on the harmonisation of supervisory decisions issued by voivodships - to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Sebastian Gwałek, will answer. Mr Starzycki is the first question asked by Mr Dariusz Starzycki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I ask the question: Is the Ministry planning to take action to create legislation aimed at harmonising supervisory decisions issued by voivodships across the country? The rules of common law are often opaque, give rise to differences of interpretation and are interpreted differently, which consequently leads to the issuing of completely different supervisory decisions by different voivodships in the country. Very often the provisions of a resolution adopted by a given city council are practically a copy of a solution functioning in another city, located in another voivodship. Attempting to adopt a similar resolution often ends with a declaration of nullity, at the same time binding in another city, in another voivodship of the resolution of the same content - where the voivode did not see any shortcomings in the decision taken or felt that the resolution contained legal decisions. Many times, with the same resolutions taken in two different cities of the same voivodship, in one case the voivodship, in a common way, passes the resolution, and in another resolution is challenged by the voivod in the procedure of supervisory decision. This creates uncertainty about the rules created at local government level, as well as leads to a legislative mess, because in various voivodships there are different interpretations of the rules and different content of supervisory decisions issued. One way to solve this problem could be to adopt a regulation that would create a central register of supervisory decisions issued by voivodships, which would inform about the supervisory decisions issued. After all, the legislator introduced mechanisms for harmonising tax interpretations. In addition, it would be appropriate to create a regulation which would prohibit the issuing of different decisions on matters already dealt with in supervisory decisions. This solution would guarantee the uniformity and regularity of the voivodship's decisions, and would enable the municipalities to carry out their tasks effectively. These are examples of proposals. Of course, if there are any other proposals that will solve the problem, they will certainly also be with huge [[♪ The bell ♪]] welcomed by local governments in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u41	Thank you very much. And I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In reply, it can be said at the outset that the actual problem of the diversity of judgments exists, but this is a deeper problem. I'm in a hurry to explain that according to the article. 98 of the Municipal Government Act, the decision of the supervisory authority concerning the municipality is subject to appeal to the administrative court, because of the unlawfulness, of course, within 30 days of the date of service. According to the article, of course. 170 The law on proceedings before administrative courts is binding not only on the parties and on the court which issued them, but also on other courts, other public authorities and, in the cases provided for in the law, on other persons. The decisions of the supervisory authority are therefore subject to verification by the administrative court to which their final assessment falls. In view of the fact that administrative courts in different voivodships have to issue different judgments in similar cases, the supervisory authorities are required to respect final decisions and to take into account often uneven judicial lines. They therefore take different decisions. There may be a situation in which the supervisory decision taken by the voivodship in the same factual and legal state in one voivodship will not be challenged by the administrative courts, and in another voivodship the administrative court will repeal it. It should be noted, however, that each of the decisions taken falls for a specific factual situation and, of course, refers to a given act of a local government unit. It is also worth noting that the resolution or order of the municipal authority may be challenged not only by the supervisory decision of the voivode but also directly by the judgment of the administrative court, by a complaint brought by the voivode or by a citizens' complaint, in accordance with Article. Article 101 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Municipal Government Act. In this context, the introduction of a regulation prohibiting the issuing of different supervisory decisions by voivodships could be incompatible with the underlying Article. 184 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland judicial control of the activities of public administration. On the other hand, with regard to the creation of a central register of supervisory decisions issued by voivodships, it can be noted that at present there are tools that support voivodship services in the implementation of these supervisory powers. The staff of the voivodship offices are equipped with special legal software enabling them to see the current state of the case law. Moreover, problems related to interpretation and, as a result, their application, which arise when verifying the legality of acts of authorities of local government units, are discussed at regular meetings of representatives of the legal supervision cells of the voivodship offices, which are often attended by judges of administrative courts. Information on supervisory decisions taken shall also be available in the voivodship official journals where, in accordance with the provisions of Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8a The Act on the Publication of Normative Acts and Certain Other Acts is hereby published, inter alia. supervisory decisions relating to acts of local law of authorities representing local self-government units. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Members, In the MMA's assessment, it would be useful to examine the issue of software creation which could be helpful, used by voivods in the procedure for verifying the legality of acts of authorities of local self-government and to have a positive impact on maintaining the uniformity of supervisory decisions as far as possible in the same cases, and the importance of considering this proposal for the development of such a system will, as always, have financial considerations, but we will examine this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u43	Thank you, Minister. Please ask for an additional question. Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! This question is, in my opinion, really important in terms of local government units that have been facing this problem for more than 25 years. In this answer, you haven't proposed any solutions. Nevertheless, it cannot be so that in a unitary state such as Poland, where the same law applies in all voivodships, the same resolution is legal in one voivodship, and in the other voivodship - no. It can't be like this. However, I would expect the Ministry to take concrete action to improve this situation, even by proposals which were presented, concerning the central register or the online platform, where such supervisory resolutions of the voivodship would be presented, so that there would be no problem with the resolution and legal and illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u45	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! As I said before, first of all, we will continue to analyse the problem of how the programme can be used, but before that I also mentioned that we do not have an influence on independent administrative courts, which, based on what you said, namely the rules of the same law applicable throughout the country, make different judgments, and unfortunately the voivode must refer to these judgments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u47	But, Minister, another matter is judicial and administrative review...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u48	Mr President, please, we are not conducting polemics. May I have your answer, please?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u49	...and what else is supervision of the voivodship. The point here is that at least in this segment it should be regulated.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u50	Mr President, now is the time for the Minister's reply. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u51	Of course, you can agree with that, but it is important to remember that the supervisory ones, so to speak, the decisions of the voivode are later controlled by the court. And that ends here as if the possibility of unification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u52	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by Members Krystyna Skowrońska, Waldy Dzikowski and Teresa Piotrowska, the Civic Platform Club. It is about draining companies of the State Treasury. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Minister of Energy, will be responsible under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers. Krystyna Skowrońska asks you as the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u53	Dear Marshal, An extremely important question. We asked the Prime Minister and we were hoping for the Prime Minister's answer, not the Minister's, but it is good that the Minister will answer us. On 5 September 2016 the General Meeting of the Polish Energy Group adopted a resolution raising the nominal value of the company's shares from 10 PLN to 10.25 PLN. This operation is to be financed by transferring almost PLN 500 million from the reserve fund to the share fund. The Minister of Finance will receive a CIT tax of 19% from this operation. That is PLN 100 million. The Minister, who will personally answer this question today, does not hide that it is so-called. piloting and can be applied to other companies. If such an operation was carried out in other companies controlled by the State Treasury, for example, PLN 2 billion of CIT can be paid by PKO BP, PGNiG, KGHM and in the range of PLN 0.5 to 1 million can be paid by PKN Orlen, ENEA, PZU, Tauron. This surprising action taken by the Minister is intended to deceive shareholders and drain the capital needed to develop and obtain only additional taxes. It is also a desperate search for money by the government. Unfortunately, this financial engineering will result in cheating shareholders. You are trying desperately to find money because you have failed to do other initiatives, such as the store tax that the European Commission has questioned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We expect an answer on this important issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u54	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Indeed, what you have highlighted in your speech... That's what happened. There was the General Meeting of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna SA, which decided to increase the company's capital by almost PLN 500 million. As a result of this increase in capital there is a payment of the tax - about PLN 100 million. It should be stressed that when it comes to company capital, there is a big mess in these capitals. In some companies, the reserves exceed share capital. Practically not once since the establishment of the companies, since 2007, the funds have not been properly allocated. If we are talking about backup capital, it is a capital that exists for specific purposes, and about 30% is a matter of measures that should be a reserve that is applied in difficult situations. On the other hand, we have in the case of companies of the State Treasury and those companies which, as Minister of Energy, I supervise, such a situation that in total tens of billions of zlotys are in reserves. I have been particularly touched by the fact that it is said: taking care of a shareholder in a company which is to take care of the security of the state at the same time. In a sense, the dividend was paid, in a small size, in Tauron, in a company that you left in a very bad financial situation. This is due to the fact that the reserve capital can also be used for dividends when there is no money at all in the company, and the kovenants are exceeded and there is virtually no possibility of obtaining credit. What's the situation now? The situation requires that this thing be organized, no matter what we say, for what reasons. The reasons are not necessarily related to the state's financial situation itself, but to the need for money. These reasons, as far as my actions are concerned, result from the fact that I want systematic order - not in one year, not at the moment. This year, there is no intention of any additional money being collected for this. Depending on the financial situation of individual companies, we will systematically allocate capital. This is necessary, because if we raise, we take this view, then the increase involves more financial resources of the company, thus subjecting them to much more stringent discipline than when they form part of the reserve capital. Share capital is basic, it is subject to completely different rules. All of this is governed by the relevant articles of the Commercial Companies Code to which we will refer. This increase applies equally to all shareholders. There is no treatment of shareholders better or worse. All shareholders are treated equally, and from the point of view of my point of view, formal matters are not subject to any discussion. This has been avoided over the years by leaving a profit which is subject to the payment of dividends to shareholders. In different amounts of dividends were paid and, most often, a significant part of the profit was paid out on backup capital. This was due to various reasons, but most of the time this money was not spent on core capital, on share capital, it left more funds in companies, but it is to the detriment of shareholders who invest in the long term. Now from the point of view of economic policy in State Treasury companies, which have recorded activities related to the energy security of the state, these activities have entered into the statutes, so they are not only working, like some others, to earn profit and to give satisfaction to shareholders... I think that it is harmful to buy stock in such companies before the general meeting and pass the dividend in order to get rid of these shares. Such shareholders of the Government of Law and Justice are not interested. These are companies of the State Treasury that operate in the long term. We are interested in shareholders who want to invest money for years and essentially bet on what they will gain in terms of improving the company's value. We will ensure that the value of the companies of the Treasury is increased and that they are guaranteed that the money placed in them will not be lost and will bring profit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the increase in capital. These profits will certainly be greater than in the event of ad hoc action. However, there must be order in these matters. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u56	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Walda Dzikowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u57	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, the use of this financial engineering technique will actually cause, if you act in such a systematic way, here I insert quotes, that the state budget would earn about PLN 10 billion. It would seem that this is a good thing, because the budget is really not tense at the moment and is in trouble, but at the same time it undermines the credibility of the State Treasury companies, which are on the stock exchange, also exposes to legal proceedings. After all, you know very well that there have been objections at general assemblies, and the consequence will be, among others. challenge those resolutions which increase the company's shares at the expense of share capital. Rather, this engineering is intended only to save the budget and exposes credibility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] State Treasury companies, which should be, and are, an important player with regard to financial market stability. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u58	Thank you, sir. And I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Dear Members, Well, I don't agree, it's populist to say that it's financial engineering. The Code of Commercial Companies, not only in Poland, but in all European countries, including the United States, fully follows the same rules and gives such opportunities. Indeed, this is decided by the majority of shareholders in such situations. Those who buy minority shares acknowledge that the majority of shareholders have the right to vote. Here is a sort of natural issue, and there are no such conditions in the Commercial Companies Code, which say that it is because it will gain from it, for example. The majority shareholder... He doesn't profit from it, you gain from it. This is the normal income of the country that has been avoided so far, so that the state does not have that income, just by pushing money into backup capital, so that there is more money, for example. For dividends or other things. And this company has entered as its task of caring for the security of the state, taking care of the energy security of the state. So if we're saying that... The budget won't make money, the budget will get normal revenue. The budget doesn't make money. This is some populist speech from people who have an opinion about finance. The budget doesn't make money, the budget has income that's rightfully due to it. We say that it will cost PLN 10 billion, but at the same time the value of companies, the nominal value of companies, which from the point of view of stock valuation greatly affects the stock exchange value of companies, will increase if in a few years we do so, by more than PLN 50 billion. As a result, the nominal value of the companies will increase. We know what this means when it comes to security of capital investment and financial security. So, from this point of view, this is the right thing to do. This is an action aimed at increasing the value of companies, so that companies of the Treasury - I am talking about those that I supervise, but it is similar to general thinking when it comes to the State Treasury - they are stable so that they are not affected so that there is no impact on the management system that will undermine their functioning. I'm ready to talk to you in two years about what the financial situation of the companies will be like. Stable capital, stable shareholders who participate actively in the fact that the value of their shares will increase not only on an ad hoc basis, because they will speculatively invest, only to make this value [[♪ The bell ♪]] She was growing up, actually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u60	Minister, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u61	Thank you. Member, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u62	...at the moment on the stock exchange, the situation is that it contradicts what the Minister is talking about. We will certainly still be asking about your action in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u63	Exactly. It will be an opportunity, Madam Member, to ask questions. Now, on the other hand, we will move on to the next question. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz and Mr Witold Czarnecki, the Law and Justice Club, ask a question on ensuring proper communication between the parties involved in the issuing of documents stating the right to drive and register vehicles by launching the CEPiK 2.0 system on 1 January 2017. The question is addressed to the Minister of Digitization. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitisation, Minister Piotr Woźny, will answer. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The expanded Central Vehicle and Driver Registration was expected to enter into force in 2013. At the moment, it is planned to be launched with the beginning of 2017. CEPiK 2.0 is a very important central register, as the system will be used primarily for old age licenses, police, courts or driving school. CEPiK 2.0 is extremely important for drivers. New electronic services are to come along with it, e.g. possibility to check on-line the number of criminal points, information about your own vehicle or driving school. The expanded Central Vehicle and Driver Records will certainly contribute to safety and increase road safety. My question is: Does the launch of the CEPiK 2.0 system from 2017 guarantee proper communication between the parties involved in issuing documents stating the right to drive and register vehicles? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. I would like to start by saying that there are two key principles for implementing complex IT projects, those relating to public administration. These are two principles, the failure to comply with which caused inefficient spending of funds on computerisation of the administration, which we had at our disposal in the years 2007 and 2013 from the Operational Programme. These two key golden rules are like this. One: IT projects must be implemented if we have a stable legislative environment, i.e. are clear, transparent legislation, all possible implementing regulations are issued and the computerisation of administrative processes is implemented in relation to a stable legislative environment. The second key condition for the success of IT projects carried out by the government is that, if this is a project whose interests are several or several public administrations, it is necessary to coordinate the conduct of these public administrations and to cooperate between key stakeholders in this project. My answer will start with the fact that as far as the CEPiK 2.0 project is concerned, which was initiated in September 2013, neither one or the other of these golden rules for the implementation of the IT project was respected in its design and implementation. Let us remember that this is a project whose implementation will be one of the most extensive IT systems in Poland affecting citizens and the functioning of administration, because its extensive and complexness will make it affect many stakeholders. Let us remember that the users of this system will be the district oldities, the police, the chief car transport inspector, the voivodship traffic centres, drivers training centers and vehicle control stations. This situation causes - as I said - that the CEPiK 2.0 project is inter-ministerial and has many stakeholders who directly and to a significant extent influence the effects of this project. Several departments - Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Ministry of Treasury, which supervises the Polish Security Printing Works, which provides IT solutions for all old offices in Poland, where driver's license and registration documents are issued every day. It's a dozen thousand registrations a day and about 5,000. driver's license. So it is so intense that citizens use this public service. On 1 January 2016, the Minister of Digitization took over from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration the supervision of the Central Computer Science Centre, which implements the central base in this project. At the date on which the Minister for Digitalisation took over this project, the 25 implementing regulations needed to implement the CEPiK 2.0 project , were issued only two regulations. With the moment of taking over the supervision of this entity responsible for the creation of the central base of the CEPiK 2.0, the Minister of Digitization began intensive and extensive activities to inventory the state of implementation of this project. These activities were intended to assess the feasibility of the project as being able to integrate all those stakeholders involved in the project. The actions that have been implemented since January 2016 are the resumption of communication between key stakeholders of the project, which died in October 2015. For the first time in the history of this project, an agreement was reached at the beginning of April 2016 between the contractor of the central base and the contractor of the local bases. Imagine that this project has been implemented for 2 years without an agreement regulating cooperation between the developer of the central system and the developer of the local system, which must communicate with each other in order to ensure the quality of IT processes and the ability to operate effectively all those people who come for the 12,000. License plate and 5,000. driver's licenses a day. Cooperation with the Institute for Automobile Transport has been launched, which has allowed the existing situation of the absence of a dictionary in the CEPiK base to be eliminated since June 2013. The absence of a dictionary causes the brand of the Ford Mondeo car to be typed in 40 different ways into this database. The quality of the database contained in the CEPiK database, which in the creation process of the CEPiK 2.0 database will have to be transferred from the CEPiK to the CEPiK 2.0 database, is very weak, which is due to the lack of dictionary of the data entered in the database. All statutory delegations were also carried out with regard to regulations whose obligation to issue was incumbent on the Minister for Digitalisation. We issued 27 implementing regulations by August this year. We keep up-to-date monitoring of the integration of all these relevant stakeholders into the CEPiK 2.0 system and work with these stakeholders. On the other hand, the observation of the state in which this project is currently located caused that in early July, after the diagnosis of the state of the project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] After diagnosing all these shortcomings and after correcting those cases which could be corrected by issuing regulations, the status of the project has been programmed, we invited all key stakeholders on the state's side to cooperate, i.e. Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction and Ministry of Treasury. In this group, we are developing a recovery plan and redrafting the way in which this project is implemented. We are talking with local governments, with the Polish Districts Association and the Polish Cities Union, which are our main social partners in this project, because one of the most important things in giving such systems is to take care of the interests of the user of this system, i.e. the official who will come into contact with the citizen in the implementation of public affairs. And as of today, our assessment of the state of this project is that it is impossible to launch this system on 1 January 2017 if we want to ensure proper communication between the parties involved in the process of issuing the document.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u66	Minister, go to the end, there may still be an opportunity to ask an additional question to answer, because the time has passed. Is there another additional question for you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u67	The Minister has given a comprehensive answer, which does not require additional questions, so that I thank the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u68	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u69	...for clarification and for the fact that he has resolved a lot of doubts that have emerged about the implementation of the CEPiK 2.0 programme. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u70	Thank you, sir. Let's move on to the next question. Mrs Zofia Czernow and Ms Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Platform is asking a question about projects implemented in secondary schools involving European funds. The question is to the Minister of National Education, and the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Marzenna Drab, will answer. The first question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Self-governments have been concerned about improving educational infrastructure for years. Recently, they have implemented many projects concerning construction, expansion, thermomodernization of junior high school facilities, as well as the creation of specialist offices for teaching subjects in these junior high schools. It cost a lot of money, including from European funds. In the deer-legnica district it is hundreds of millions of zlotys. All these tasks are in the so-called period. the sustainability of projects, 5 years after the financial completion of which failure to comply is likely to cause serious consequences on the part of the European Union, including the reimbursement of grants. I have dozens and hundreds of examples. Their shelf life shall end in 2018 or 2019. The liquidation of junior high schools is an end to the sustainability of projects and the exposure of local authorities to very severe financial penalties. I have a question: Who will pay these penalties? Has Minister Zalewska included these expenses in the costs of education reform? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u72	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! Membership! Thank you very much, Madam President, for this question, because it is important. Hopefully, the information we've been passing on again... Because in various forms, the Ministry of Education answers the burning questions of local government officials and more. I think that today's answer will also reach the actors and calm the mood a bit. The change in the structure of schools announced by the Ministry of National Education, including the phasing out of secondary education, does not jeopardise the sustainability of projects funded by European funds to support education. The sustainability requirements are governed by Regulation No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down common provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and repealing Council Regulation No 1083/2006 - that is the legal basis. According to Art. 71 Ww. a regulation in the case of an operation involving investment in a production structure or investment shall be reimbursed from the European Fund for Strategic Investments if, during a period of 5 years from the final payment to the beneficiary or during a period determined in accordance with the State aid rules, there are any of the following circumstances: firstly, the cessation of the production activity or the transfer thereof outside the programme area; second case, the change in ownership of the structure element which confers undue advantages on the undertaking or public entity; and third case, a material change affecting the nature of the operation, its objectives or the conditions of implementation which could lead to a breach of its original objectives. It should be stressed at this point that the main objective of the intervention in the field of education is to equip pupils with skills to function effectively on the labour market. This objective is implemented at every level of education in schools and educational establishments - from the European Social Fund. School equipment is only a means of achieving this objective and is of a subsidiary nature to activities aimed at pupils. Changes in the structure of the education system should therefore not jeopardise the sustainability of interventions made through support from European funds, including investment in secondary education infrastructure. A smooth and efficient introduction of the new structure of education requires a transitional period of several years. This will enable the current education system to adapt to new systemic solutions. The decision on the form and time of the transformation of the junior high school belongs to the competence of the local government conducting the secondary school, the legal person not being a local government unit or the natural person running the existing public or non-public secondary school. The changes will start with the 2017/2018 school year. At that time, pupils leaving the school year 2016/2017 VI primary school will become pupils in the seventh grade of primary school. I'm gonna start with this. the gradual elimination of junior high, there will be no recruitment to junior high. In the school year 2018/2019 the last year of class III children will graduate from middle school. As of 1 September 2019, middle school will not function in the school system. As a result, the obligations arising from the need to maintain the sustainability of projects supporting secondary education can be transferred to other schools, educational establishments, bodies leading within the framework of legal succession, provided that the project's objectives continue to be pursued. And that's the essence of the case and the questions you're asking today. This solution will avoid the need for reimbursement of grants granted to schools. The commitments made by the beneficiaries in this respect will require a detailed analysis of how they can continue to be used to achieve their educational objectives. In addition, the marshal offices, all of them, should analyse the potential risks to the intervention envisaged for implementation in the area of education in the coming months and inform applicants of the need to take into account the impact of the reform in the planned actions. They should also use a model grant agreement containing clauses on the possibility of amending the project in the event of external causes, inter alia. independent of the beneficiary, e.g. changes in existing law. In order to maintain the principle of sustainability and effective investment of European Union funds, these guidelines [[♪ The bell ♪]] have been transferred to all marshals throughout the country, the managing bodies of regional operational programmes. At the same time, they are still the subject of analyses by the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of National Education. Regional authorities will be kept informed of new developments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u74	Thank you, Minister. And an additional question, Mrs Krystyna Sibińska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u75	Minister, I understand that instructions to marshal offices have gone and new contracts may be prepared, changed, but preparing for a new perspective of the EU, both local authorities and schools, including of course middle school, and public and non-public, have incurred the costs of carrying out documentation, feasibility study, drawing up applications, some competitions are already announced. Well, what about it? Projects reported by middle school may be rejected. Question: "Did the Ministry predict what happened to these projects?" Who will bear the cost of preparing these documentations, and these are considerable costs? Does the Ministry perhaps provide for a different form of co-financing for such projects that are notified by these educational establishments?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u76	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Madam President, in answer to the first question, I have also provided information on the supplementary question that you have asked at the moment. I would like to say this: All actions related to application, processing of applications, signing contracts in the current perspective and in the present time are informed to the marshals. These marshals are responsible as managing authority of the RPO for the spending of investment funds. The Ministry, as I said earlier, is interested in supporting the student, creating various tools, i.e. software, such a widely understood software, not computer software that supports students in learning, improving teaching, adapting to the labour market. On the other hand, all current matters that are currently on the desk must, of course, be dealt with individually. As I said before, there should be appropriate clauses in the contracts. If there is a change in the law that does not result from a measure on the part of the beneficiary, then the clause that will be included in the contract will certainly in some sense safeguard the beneficiary and the one that provides such support. As I said earlier, the Ministry of Development, which is competent in this area, is still conducting an analysis of what is happening, together with the Ministry of National Education. The marshals are kept informed of all matters. So I think this should calm both the managing authorities and those who are going to apply or want to apply. Perhaps we will need to correct the proposal. On the other hand, in those cases which have already taken place, i.e. where funds have been granted for co-financing investments, nothing can happen wrong. There is no reason to claim that millions will have to be paid back, because if the purpose for which the support was given is not subject to change - and that the objective cannot be changed, the beneficiary already knew a few years ago - nothing can happen in this regard. On the other hand, if there are individual, very difficult cases, then each case must be considered individually. So that I think my answer should very comfort those who are embarrassed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u78	Thank you very much, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, Mrs Joanna Kopcińska and Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, the Law and Justice Club, the question about the design of the rules so that the taxpayer and the official have no problems interpreting them and that the taxpayer in the east and west of the country is not surprised by the different treatment of the exact same legal situation. Question addressed to the Minister of Finance. Minister Wiesław Janczyk will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. The first question is asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The activity of tax offices arouses a lot of emotions because it affects all people and entrepreneurs. There is a need for permanent and clear rules. The primary objective must be to change the tax administration in such a way that it is more friendly to payers. The taxpayer in Poland needs both support in tax settlement and the creation of a uniform and publicly available interpretation of tax law, which will apply to payers and officials. This is needed so that there is no doubt that this is some secret knowledge for officials. She needs to be available online, and I think it's gonna make these interpretation disputes a lot less. This is the specialization of National Tax Information in the respective tax titles, so there will be greater uniformity in issuing interpretations. Here's a question. Are there ongoing and at what stage are work on such legislation as to ensure that the taxpayer and the official are not in difficulty with interpretation and that the taxpayer in the east and in the west is not surprised by the different treatment in exactly the same legal situation? I also ask for information on the collection of tax arrears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u80	Thank you. Minister Janczyk, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The dream of all citizens and entrepreneurs is to simplify, simple, unambiguously sound tax rules, because they actually define the conditions for doing business every day. Those who decide on such economic activity should have a clear, transparent framework for this activity and should be encouraged to do so. I would like to point out that the tax system is the main source of revenue of local government units, the revenue of the state budget and is treated as such with due seriousness by the Government of the Republic of Poland. However, it must be acknowledged, and we all know that economic reality, number, size of economic and financial transactions is growing all the time. It is a fact and a constant feature that it is very diverse. It changes over time, the needs of the market change, investors' ambitions change, but also laws change, because tax law according to the Constitution, with Article. 217, in fact, creates the Sejm, but a large part of this activity of the Sejm is the result of the rules that are created in the European Parliament. Within the framework of harmonisation, Poland is also required to adapt Polish legislation to what direction They change. It must also be admitted objectively that in all countries this problem of simplification of legislation seems to exist and probably everywhere, and every time it is an ideal that should be pursued, but it is difficult to say that someone has succeeded in simplifying this tax system that has led to taxpayers to a satisfactory degree. However, of course, all the time we try to do everything and fulfil these expectations of taxpayers to the fullest extent, although it must also be said that we are also surrounded by judgments of courts, which often in similar cases geographically, which is included in the question, are based on various arguments and make different judgments. Then the interpretations we make must consume all of this and often keep up with it in order to meet this ambition of clarity of the laws, their obviousness and consistency. In these circumstances, we try to function and provide uniform, consistent, clear, clear rules for those who need them to conduct business. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that yesterday there was a reading of the National Tax Administration Act, in short called the KAS. We hope that it will be received kindly in the Seym and worked quite quickly. It contains an important change, i.e. that an entity such as National Tax Information will be created, different from that which today operates in this sphere, i.e. National Tax Information, which will have a centralised structure. As today, the five centres that operate in this area have the competence to inform taxpayers throughout the tax area and answer their questions, so after the reform, five centres will be centralised and specialised, but there will be uniform answers across the country. This is a great progress and a great hope connected with the reform, the framework of which is defined by this law on the National Tax Administration, which I was talking about. It seems to be a step in the right direction. On the other hand, today I would also like to point out that it is possible for taxpayers and employees of the tax administration to have a correct and uniform interpretation of the tax legislation to be familiar with the interpretation in the Official Journal of the Minister of Finance in the Public Information Bulletin. In addition, all interpretations of tax legislation, including general interpretations, are included in the tax information system, so-called. the SIP database, which is available to the staff of the bodies subordinate to the Finance Minister, and copies of each general interpretation issued shall be sent to all the directors of the tax chambers and the directors of the tax control offices. It seems, therefore, that such a base as that mentioned by the Member exists and is to be used. Sometimes you just have to reach out to her. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u82	Thank you, Minister. And the additional question is asked by Małgorzata Golińska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! A very comprehensive answer, actually. I'm just gonna ask about it. Since our tax system, which has already sounded here, to put it mildly, does not belong to the easiest in the world, the Minister said, it is possible to seek individual tax interpretations, which should, as a rule, help entrepreneurs move in the thicket of these ambiguous rules, which, as we know, entrepreneurs often use. However, sometimes the various tax chambers issue different interpretations in similar situations. You can even hear about such cases that two parties to the same transaction make a request to one tax office and receive completely different interpretations concerning the same problem. Unfortunately, this is supported, I believe, by an imprecise tax law which leaves officials too much room for interpretation. True, such an interpretation can be brought before the court, and that happens. Practice shows that courts are abdicating [[♪ The bell ♪]] unjustified profiscal tax interpretations, but officials may ignore it. And the question, perhaps naive: Is it possible to introduce such a standard that officials are obliged to use already issued tax rulings or judgments so that the taxpayer is aware that no matter where the application is made, the tax offices will not be treated the same way and the tax offices will not be so called. country in the country?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u84	Thank you. And the Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I find it difficult to argue with such a thesis about drastically divergent interpretations with which taxpayers meet. I'm sure that's the kind of thing that could happen. It's hard for me to say that they're the norm. I think if they did, they're very rare. On the other hand, the Minister of Finance, in a situation where there are differences in interpretation, tries to respond very quickly each time and eliminate irregularities in resolution. He is obliged to do so by the provisions of Article. 14a Tax Order which requires the Minister of Finance to pursue uniform application of tax law by tax authorities. It is this legal standard that obliges the Minister of Finance to eliminate any contradictory, divergent, individual tax interpretations from the legal turnover. So that we attach great importance to it. I would also like to add, at the end of my statement, that it will be important to set up a National Tax School within the framework of the reform, which will lead to the centralisation and strengthening of the human resources training process and, in our view, to align and raise the substantive level of employees of the National Tax Administration, which will translate into the quality and certainty of case law, which will ultimately affect overall tax and legal awareness. On the other hand, I would also like to inform you here that we will give you a comprehensive written reply on the state of the outstanding debts and the efficiency of their collection by the tax authority, because such a question has been raised in this first round of questions. So that we can prepare for you such an answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. High Izbo, because at 3 p.m. 11 are scheduled to vote, and there are still a few questions left, and I am announcing a technical break by noon. 11. We will return to the questions after a short vote. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min. 51 hrs. 11 min 02]] I'm reopening the session. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I ask Members to take their seats. I would like to inform you that the planned item 13 of the agenda: the report by the European Union's Committee on European Affairs on draft resolutions on TTIP and CETA international agreements, opposition to the ratification procedure proposed by the European Commission between the European Union and Canada - CETA without the approval of the Member States, the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between the European Union and its Member States and Canada, will not be discussed at the current session of the Sejm. We return to item 10 on the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases. The additional committee report shall be in print No 865-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development held today, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] on the draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the control of infectious animal diseases, prints Nos 832 and 865. At the second reading yesterday, amendments to the bill were tabled. The three amendments tabled by Kukiz15 concern an increase in the amount of financial penalties imposed in connection with the failure of the sanitary discharge and the situation of failure to report cases of falls or failure to provide shot-off game to certain places, so that the penalties are not only imminent but also severe. The two amendments of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club concern the deletion of articles setting out the conditions for recruitment, appeal, disciplinary matters concerning the district veterinarian and his alternate and changes in the terms of their employment. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development requests that these amendments be rejected and that the law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u88	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption, as we have heard, of a draft Print Act No 865. The Commission also presents amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 3 draft law containing amendments to the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious animal diseases. In amendments 1 to 3 to the following Article: 85aa paragraph. 1 applicants propose to increase the amount of the fine. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. Questions are raised by Members. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! For a few days now, actually for 2 days, we've been investigating a very important bill, a specialty that's supposed to help combat the sudden events, the sudden diseases that appear. Right now we're fighting African swine fever. And here the government sees three sources or three groups of people who could manage or who are responsible for the spread of this disease. The first is county veterinarians, the second group is farmers, and the third group is hunters. And like farmers, they are punished very high, because even with a penalty of 17.5 thousand. zł One farmer can be punished, so a group of hunters, such a minimum group of hunters, 10 hunters, because this is the smallest circle, can be punished with only 12 thousand. zł. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So hunters - 1,2 thousands. zł, farmers - 17.5 thousands. zł. I would very much ask you to support this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u90	Thank you. The question was raised by Mr Artur Dunin, the Civic Platform Club. [[Mr. Marshal, something's not working.]] [[Silence the room, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The inequality that is being passed on to farmers is, of course, unfair, because the point is not to punish, but to enforce. And the one on the project... [[Mr. Marshal, I can't hear you.]] [[I can't hear you.]] I hear you can't hear me, Marshal. Something's not right, I'm told. There are signals in the room. [[I can't hear you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u92	I'm listening to you, sir. You don't say anything. [[But we can't hear.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you're talking. So keep quiet, you'll hear. I'm so sorry, ladies and gentlemen. [[But shut the fuck up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u93	Ladies and gentlemen! Again. The amendment you have proposed in this law is unfair to farmers. You should get out of it, because the situation is that you have to deal effectively with it, not punish it. That's one thing. Secondly, the amendment prepared by the Civic Platform is aimed at this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that things will finally end with the unfair exchange of human resources. The songwriters are still working with you, so please accept the second amendment, which we will vote on next. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u94	Thank you, sir. Member Robert Telus, Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to change the way our fellow Members from the Civic Platform think. It is not farmers who spread ASF disease. You say farmers will be punished. The spreaders of ASF disease are wild and traffickers, and if we are talking about punishment in this law, then we are talking about punishing traders, not farmers. Let's stop saying farmers are guilty. Farmers are victims of this disease. And the envoy from the Civic Platform who was talking about some Misiewicz... [[Voice from the room: Pisiewicz!]] ...I want to ask if he forgot the taste of octopus. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u96	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 27 voted against - 384, 5 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 6 draft law amending applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the Civil Service Act. This amendment is combined with the 5th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The questions are raised by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, How is it that we have come to the law on amending the Civil Service Act since the law on the fight against infectious diseases? Only Law and Justice can so impertinently take over the state. This change, which you are making today, clearly shows that the control in the companies of the Treasury is only and only for the public, that you do not intend to stay in the possession of the State and fill your people with successive posts. This time, with the bill to fight ASF in Poland, it is to help farmers fight this virus, this disease, we come to a situation where you want to change the way district veterinarians and their deputies are employed. To release a district veterinarian who fails to fulfil his duties, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just do it. It's disciplinary, it's okay, ladies and gentlemen, to change his forms of employment to one that will be more comfortable for you and that will allow you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u98	Thank you, Member. [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u99	...putting these positions on your party buddies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u100	Mr Dorota Niedziela, Club Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Finally, Mr President! Mr. President, please... Under the cloak of the law on the fight against such a dangerous virus as the African swine fever virus... Mr. President, I'd really like to ask... [[Get off me, woman. Go ahead.]] The fight against African swine fever virus is a fight that needs to be continued. You don't have to fight veterinarians. Under the coat of this law, the PiS fights with county veterinarians, wants to fire them. If the whole bill is needed, then this change, Mr. President, is not necessary. I want you to influence the minister to get him out of it. You're welcome... [[Oh, what do you say?]] ...if it's a fight, it's a virus, not a doctor. [[Applause]] [[Modern virus, not pigs.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, these are not questions, these are statements. In addition, I would like to remind you that in the following point, please ask questions to the rapporteur or to the representative of the government. [[Exactly.]] Minister of Agriculture Krzysztof Jurgel requests the floor. [[Applause]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the control of African swine fever large, if not most important, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Humans are important. I want to inform you that the team that was set up at the District Attorney's Office in Bialystok will most likely charge 13 veterinarians who have been investigating diseases from behind the car window. It must be that the Provincial Veterinary Inspector has the right to make changes where there are irregularities, especially at a time when the situation is so difficult. We are making this decision to be more effective in combating African swine fever, because the administration you managed for 8 years has been deregulated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u104	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 162 voted against - 234, 34 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The questions were raised by Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u105	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers! High Izbo! This bill is made on your knees... [[Left or right?]] ...but I understand that proceding these changes is an emergency, we have a real threat to African swine fever. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is outrageous that this bill is only being processed today and that it is, of course, another human resources bill. [[But on my knee.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that the Ministry has completely ignored our comments, in particular on the extension of bioinsurance to the whole country, but also the labelling of meat cattle. Mr. President... Mr. President! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Get off me, woman. Get off me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u106	Member, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, do you like pork chops?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u108	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u110	Madame, please address the question to the Government or to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u111	Let the Minister of Agriculture get on with it, because Polish pork chops are about to dissipate and there will be no Polish pork meat. [[Get out of there!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit their desks.]] [[What is it, marshal?]] Sir, sir, sir, sir, sir, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The minister will get to work. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u112	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. I would just like to point out to you that this is the point where we address questions to the rapporteur or to the government. [[That was a question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I won't agree with what my predecessor said about writing a bill on her knee. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[But she doesn't know anything about it.]] She was written really fast, but she should have risen. We've spent a lot of hours working on the committee to make this bill look good. It does not look perfect, hence my question: What tools besides this modest punishment of 1,200 zlotys for a group of hunters has a ministry to get hunters to shoot off animals? I've got a lot of signals from farmers who say that gunshots aren't done, they're hanging out in the fields, and they're even going into the corrals. Is there any other force, or can you put pressure on hunters to do what the district veterinarian politely asks them to do? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u114	Thank you very much. It's a question addressed, I understand, to the government. And that's what it's supposed to look like. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Thank you, sir. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Mr. President! The question is, will you fix this necessary bill? Are you gonna fix this bill that's gonna help us fight African fever? [[Voice from the room: We'll fix it.]] The question is, will you fix... [[No.]] [[No, because it's good.]] ...because it's bad for now. And we're hoping that... [[It's okay.]] ...the state will correct it without punishing county veterinarians for getting the ASF virus out of hand. We demand that this bill be repaired. We demand... [[We'll fix Poland.]] ...fairness to district veterinarians.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u116	Thank you, Member. [[Voice from the room: Let's do it!]] [[How about a bunch of kamasha?]] Would the Minister like to respond? There's a question and there's the Minister's answer. Krzysztof Jurgel, Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In February we issued a regulation already as a new government on the monitoring and early detection of African swine fever, taking into account the signals that are transmitted from Ukraine by our veterinary services, because there are meetings there. In Ukraine no one fights African swine fever, in Belarus the same, wild boars are being harassed on the Polish side. That's why I decided in February... in March I issued a regulation to reduce 40,000 under the law. wild boars in the so-called "wild boars." WAM's belt to eliminate this threat in some way. Unfortunately, this organization, which is not entirely patriotic, in my opinion, I can say, did not want to cooperate and does not want to cooperate voluntarily with the Minister of Agriculture to do this reduction of boars, and, after all, according to the Law of Hunting Law, it leases hunting circuits and is there to lead the right economy. Firstly, hunting plans have not been carried out in three years, and secondly, we have additionally allocated funds to make this reduction happen. Given the further signals from July and August that the threat from Ukraine is very high, we have decided here to propose a change to the High House so that the district veterinarian and the voivode can make decisions and order the reduction of boars... [[But that's not the point, Minister.]] ...in a given area. Moreover, decisions that are made within the government, because different types of teams are set up, one is resort, the other is inter-ministerial, indicates that a reduction to zero should be made in the border belt, while in the rest of the country 0.5 wild boar per km2. Here will be a flat-rate payment. A warrant, no punishment will probably make a hunter do his job. I appeal from here to those hunters in Poland who care about the future of our country and want ASF not to be there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u118	There you go. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No.865, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. There were 429 votes against, 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases. High Seym! I am pleased to inform you that our discussions are being listened to by representatives of Christians from Syria. [[Applause]] Hello, Mrs Myrna Nazzour and Mr Nicolas Nazzour. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] At the moment, Mr Piotr Appeal, the Kukiz Club15, is making a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I'm asking you to calm down, because it's very serious. Today, it was removed from the point of view of CETA and the debate on CETA. In a moment, there will be a meeting of governments in Bratislava, and we still do not have an official government position. I would very much like to ask Mr Marshal for a recess so that we can see this moment when the official position of the government in the ceta case will be given to us and we will be able to discuss, before this important meeting, the debate on CETA. Because right now it looks like law and justice, and that's what it looks like, cares more about the interests of big corporations than farmers. And I believe that it can be different, and I believe that we can defend Polish entrepreneurs, Polish farmers and Polish consumers from the flood of very unhealthy food, from the flood of very unhealthy competition. Please take a break. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u120	Thank you, sir. Before I put this proposal to the vote, because it is formally a request for a recess, I inform you that I have removed from the agenda, but on the basis of a transfer to the next session of the Sejm, this point at the request of the President of the Commission for European Union Affairs because the government is working to agree on a position in this area. This is a request. I believe that we should wait for the government's opinion on this issue, and that is why I accepted the request of the chairman of the committee. However, there is a formal request for a break and I will put it to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 191 voted against - 242, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We return to the consideration of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on National Tax Administration. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 826 will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Question.]] [[Question.]] [[Question.]] [[The question was.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[I volunteered for the question, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Too late.]] 433 Members voted. 187 voted against - 236, 10 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Ladies and gentlemen, please report to the secretariat in advance. [[But it was reported.]] [[I've been asking you a question.]] Was this request filed? It wasn't transferred here. [[Formal conclusion.]] So I would ask you to make such reports in advance accordingly. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law Rules introducing the Act on National Tax Administration. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. We've got reports here. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Is it true that the heads of the tax administration, the director of the National Tax Information, the heads of customs and treasury control offices will be appointed without competitions, i.e. from a political key? Is it true that these anointed Songs will have complete freedom to continue to employ all tax officials? Is it true that it is, in fact, a political cleansing? Is it true that consolidation of administration will actually be a weapon of political warfare? Is it true that the president doesn't know that? Finally, is it true that since the decision of the head of the customs office, let's give it to Chief Pisiewicz... [[Leśniewicz.]] [[Quiet, not Misiewicz.]] ...in a complicated case under consideration by the customs and treasury control office, the taxpayer will be able to appeal only to Pisiewicz? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[No.]] Today 80%...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u122	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u123	...the decision of the tax authorities...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u124	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u125	...is repealed by the IRS. You take out entrepreneurs, taxpayers...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u126	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u127	...that possibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u128	Thank you. Please, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Is it true that the Law and Justice of all taxpayers in Poland regard them as potential criminals? Is it true that provisions have been introduced in the KAS Act allowing citizens to be monitored at the level of the anti-terrorist law? Is it true that you also want to send chase dogs to taxpayers in Poland... [[Jesus.]] ...because one of the key elements for which you will select the future management of the KAS... [[Boxers.]] ... will be the effectiveness of officials in collecting VAT? Would you like to see Polish officials now have to take part in the corporate rat race and prove who will better collect VAT, just to realize the unrealistic effects of VAT sealing introduced into the state budget? That is how it is, ladies and gentlemen, when you first introduce goals into the budget, and then you wonder how to achieve them. You can't do that, ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] manage the state and the tax office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u130	Thank you, Member. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Marian Banas, asks for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to answer in this way: it is true that for 9 years we have a tax gap and fraud fraud of almost 80 billion, [[Applause]] that executions from claims of 20 billion in the 20,000th year... [[Two thousand seven.]] ...when we gave you power, it grew to 65 billion. So I ask myself: What was the effectiveness? The activities of you and your organs at that time? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] So you should've done it right now... This law, which you are denying today, was prepared between 2005 and 2006, and was really about to bring order to organized crime, which you did not fight. The checks were carried out with small operators. Organised crime has developed so much that today we have the biggest tax gap and the biggest tax administration costs of 1.6% , and the average in the countries of the European Union is 0.8%, 0.7%, please. That's the answer to your question... [[Get that money out of Luxembourg.]] ...that we will pursue organized criminals and create the right instruments for this. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u132	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 827 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 184 voted against - 238 and 16 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the Military Property Agency (print No 841). In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the National Defence Committee for consideration. The questions are raised by Members. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u133	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We will be voting on a motion to reject a very harmful draft law on the Military Property Agency. The Civic Platform Club had no choice but to submit such a proposal, a proposal which could save the High House from complete embarrassment, a proposal which should be adopted by this House. This project abolishes transparent competition procedures when selecting functionaries to perform the most important functions in the Military Property Agency: managers, deputies, very important functions of persons who manage multi-billion-dollar assets of the Military Property Agency. There's a way out of this situation that can save the face of Law and Justice. Mr. President, with hot iron, we will burn those who think only of themselves. These are your words addressed to your friends and colleagues. I understand that Antoni Macierewicz set you up. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in a very difficult situation, but you can...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u134	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u135	...withdraw this project. This is the exit with the face. [[Applause]] [[You can back out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u136	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Another personnel bill. It doesn't matter what the responsibilities are, it doesn't matter what the competitions are, it's important to cast their own. I don't know if the Minister is just trying to put his men in there to sell two or three tanks and power his representation fund because it seems to be empty. [[Applause]] [[Hey, count your words, Jurek.]] I'd offer to take a shortcut. I'll make it easy for you, ladies and gentlemen. Let's make one such bill that we're gonna fire all the employees day by day and the next day you're gonna verify it, you know how, and you're gonna rehire them. [[We'd like a draft of the envoy, please.]] You're welcome. I think it's worth thinking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u138	Thank you, sir. It was not a question, but in this case the President of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Szydło, asks for the floor. [[Applause]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will speak on this, but I will also take the floor in a discussion that has long been called up by Members of the opposition by politicians who have taken responsibility for the past eight years... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[By the will of the nation!]] ...for the affairs of the state, for the management of the wealth of the Treasury, and those politicians who... [[Hofman.]] ...they were supporting them in this. Business groups and scandals... [[Teddy bear, Teddy bear!]] ...which during these eight years have crossed Poland, are unbelievable. We came here today to sort things out, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But most of all... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Teddy bear! Teddy bear!]] [[Tomczyk, hello!]] ...we came to protect the Treasury's assets from what you wanted to do - sell everything... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Yes, sir!]] ...destroy shipyards, eliminate mines, privatize hospitals, PKP Energy... [[What are you talking about?]] ...even the Kasprowy Wierch line you decided to privatize. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] And all this was done by those you've chosen in transparent competitions managers. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Teddy bear! Teddy bear!]] And you can't stop us... [[Eight years!]] ...from the protection of the wealth of the State Treasury and from Poles above all... [[Who sent the MPs to the companies?]] ...decided whether hospitals were available to everyone, [[Applause]] Not fake managers who do business on this. [[Applause]] [[Lie!]] We will also organize in the companies of the Treasury everything that you have corrupted. [[Applause]] [[Lie!]] We, unlike you, can draw conclusions... [[Jans! Janów right away!]] ...we can look for solutions, but our primary goal... [[Lie!]] ...is the protection of national assets. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's embarrassing.]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u140	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 841, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 197, against - 236, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 37 hours 11 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. We are returning to item 11 of the agenda. Let's move on to question 10. Messenger Gabriela Masłowska and Mr Marek Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, question on drug exports through NZOZ and hospital pharmacies and the scale of bankruptcy of family pharmacies. Question addressed to the Minister of Health. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz will answer. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking in the plenary room, Mr Petru and Mr... Mr President, I would very much like to ask you to move these talks to the Seym Clouary, and I would ask your Members to take their seats. The first question is asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u141	Thank you, Marshal. The pharmaceutical market in Poland is estimated at about PLN 30 billion per year. This also applies to human health, values which Poles value most. Unfortunately, in the drug market in Poland there were many irregularities, unsubstantiated, unsolved by the previous government. One such problem is the illegal export of medicines both refunded and unrefunded, which causes budgetary losses and, above all, the lack of certain medicines in our market. Recently, unfortunately, we have been informed that health care establishments are involved, which, through hospital pharmacys, order huge amounts of the same drug, which gives rise to the suspicion that they are involved in the export of drugs abroad. Does the Ministry of Health have that information? Does the Ministry of Health monitor this issue and what action is it taking? A huge problem is also the situation of family pharmacies, which are literally daily due to monopolistic practices of networks, which are probably very well known to the Minister. Does the Ministry of Health take any action in this regard? Is it preparing legislative acts that would counter the destruction of the pharmaceutical market so as not to lead to a situation such as Canada, where, as a result of monopolization by the networks, family pharmacy has fallen and, of course, ministers do not have an impact on the prices of medicines in this situation? But that's not the end of the problem. I would like to hear how quickly the Ministry of Health will take action to counteract these negative trends.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u142	Thank you, Member. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to this well-known problem - which, unfortunately, has existed for several years and has recently become much worse - it must be said that the main cause is, unfortunately, the economic gains that have been consumed by the networks, and this way of circumvention has also extended to both non-public health establishments and hospital pharmacys, although we do not know the scale of the treatment in relation to hospital pharmacies. The Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector shall monitor the functioning of pharmaceutical wholesalers and the issue of drug exports. In the event of the occurrence of the so-called. the reversed distribution chain - both in relation to clinics and private health establishments - the voivodships of pharmaceutical inspectors and the chief pharmaceutical inspector shall transmit, in accordance with Article. 87. 6 of the Pharmaceutical Law Act, information to authorities keeping records of medicinal entities, and in particular to voivodships. Such information shall also be communicated to the health minister, tax or fiscal control authorities, depending on the supervisory and control powers and the nature of those irregularities. If information has been obtained on the existence of such a phenomenon, the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector shall also have the possibility to refer to law enforcement authorities a notice of suspicion of an offence under Article. 126b of the Pharmaceutical Law Act. It should be noted that, under the Pharmaceutical Law, the marketing of medicinal products can only be carried out on the principles clearly described in that Act. The marketing rights of medicinal products shall be those of the manufacturers responsible for the distribution of their own products, pharmaceutical wholesalers as well as pharmacies, pharmacies and non-pharmacies. In view of the provisions of the Pharmaceutical Law itself and of the 2002 Regulation of the Minister of Health on entities authorised to purchase medicinal products in a pharmaceutical wholesaler, we can conclude that a medicinal product may be supplied by a medicinal product in wholesalers and pharmacies in general, provided that these products are necessary in view of the nature of the health services provided - that is to say, they are purchased only for use in accordance with Article. 68 of the Pharmaceutical Law Act, not to carry out any other operations, including secondary trading outside the medicinal facility. The second case, which is a specific exception to the prohibition on the transfer of these medicines in the course of a therapeutic activity, is Article. 106 Act, which states that hospital pharmacists may supply medicinal products to medical professionals, such as fixed and 24-hour health benefits or such: outpatient health benefits under a contract concluded with those entities, provided that this does not adversely affect the operation of the pharmacy itself. The second option is to supply patients included in treatment programmes under the 2011 Refund Act, as well as patients receiving outpatient chemotherapy. And only these two forms are not treated as pharmaceutical products within the meaning of the Pharmaceutical Law. A check which aims to verify medicines given to patients in the framework of health services provided, a registered body for such an establishment may carry out on its own on the basis of the Act on medicinal activities. In the context of checks, persons authorised by the authority keeping the register of medicinal operators shall have the right, inter alia, to do so. access to all premises of a medical operator or access to medical records. This means that the controlled registry authority itself has tools that enable it to determine whether the physically contained medicinal products are present in the premises of the controlled entity in such a quantity and under the conditions under which they should be stored, i.e. the authority has the possibility to verify that the amount of medicinal products in the hospital pharmacy is in line with the marketing process. In addition, it is possible to determine whether the medical records of the recipients reflect both the name and the amount of these measures, i.e. on this basis it can be concluded that the healthcare providers may have mis-trafficked the medicines. According to the pharmacy authority with which the Ministry of Health is in close contact, any illegal export case should have a final in the disciplinary court, which should punish dishonest pharmacists. On the other hand, the effectiveness of such penalties is low. We are currently introducing a monitoring system for the marketing of medicinal products, it is in phase [[♪ The bell ♪]] A test. We hope that such a mechanism will help to increase surveillance. A revision of the Pharmaceutical Law, which increases the powers of pharmacists, may also give an opportunity to improve supervision of illicit drug trafficking. This amendment is also underway at the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u144	Thank you, Minister. And I'd like to ask you for an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u145	One of the sources of problems with family pharmacies is the widespread non-pharmaceutical sale, at various public points, of medicines without practically any control. It is estimated that about 3,000. medicines are sold in this way in Poland. This raises many problems, among others. also for human health, causes many complications (so-called. the phenomenon of polypragma), which, of course, then requires huge budget money to treat the effects of these phenomena. Does the Ministry of Health intend to reduce this growing trend in non-pharmaceutical sales and how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u146	Mr Polak will ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u147	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In fact, it's all been said, but I wanted to ask briefly. Is the Ministry considering introducing a map of pharmaceutical services so that it is not a mere trade and a kind of pharmaceutical care when working on amendments to the Pharmaceutical Law Act? the patient, and the solutions that will rule out two, three or four major players in the retail market, as Austria, Germany, France and Italy did? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u148	Thank you, sir. And I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the non-appreciative turnover, the Act on non-appreciative trading is currently in the course of work at the Ministry of Health. However, it should be borne in mind that there are mainly dietary supplements or medical devices in the non-pharmaceutical market, not medicines. On the other hand, when it comes to the range of medicines that are authorised, these are mainly OTC medicines, i.e. those sold without prescription, with a very narrow range of use, i.e. literally several molecules used just as drugs quickly and easily available without a prescription. This anti-aptics bill, I think, is about to come out of the department. With regard to how to prevent these irregularities, namely the elimination of family pharmacies, the expansion of significant networks - data from the IMS Health portal this year show that 2.3 individual pharmacies are closed daily precisely because of the very significant expansion of pharmaceutical networks. The networks currently cover 5370 pharmacies with around 15 thousand. in the market, while a significant part of all pharmacies are pharmacies, which are in the franchise of large pharmaceutical wholesalers. What he was talking about, i.e. the introduction of a map, is, of course, one of the ideas to limit the expansion of the network. Very dangerous, bad information from some Western countries shows that this expansion of the network can result in a significant increase in prices. Now these prices in networks are lower than prices in so-called. Family pharmacies because networks introduce their own dietary supplements to a very significant extent, whose turnover represents a significant contribution to the finances of such pharmacies. Here, the scale effect that is visible in the case of network pharmacies is the main cause of winning in economic competition with family pharmacies. On the other hand, the Chief Pharmacy Chamber monitors compliance with the provisions of the Pharmaceutical Law in the area of acceptable 1% numbers [[♪ The bell ♪]] pharmacies. That kind of information is being reported to us, and we're reporting it to the chief pharmaceutical inspector. The last application was at the beginning of August this year, listing 27 networks, which according to the Chief Pharmacy Chamber are suspected of breaking these records. This type of information is analysed by GIF and GIF has its own ability to influence the closure of individual pharmacies from networks that exceed 1%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u150	Thank you, Minister. And we move on to the last question. Members Anna April and Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice, a question about plans for the creation of the Code of Good Sponsor Practices, which is to be part of a new strategy relating to the preparation of athletes for the next Olympics. The question is addressed to the Minister of Sport and Tourism. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Minister Jan Widera, will answer. The first question is asked by Anna April. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u151	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This year's Olympics ended for Poland with 11 medals, including two gold medals. On the one hand, it can be said that the impasse has been broken, so far it has always ended with almost 10 medals, on the other hand it is actually a repetition of the achievements of Athens, Sydney, Beijing or London. We were only in 33rd place, and there were years when Poland was in the first, second or third ten. So you can see there's something wrong with getting ready for the Olympics. It seems that some changes should be made here, which, I think, would satisfy not only athletes, but us, people who simply keep their thumbs crossed for our athletes, Poles who are very fascinated by sports. In the medal classification Poland was in 33rd place this year and we were preceded by countries such as 10 million Hungary and Croatia, and it should be pointed out that Hungary brought 15 medals, including as many as 8 zlotys and Croatia 10 medals, including 5 zlotys. We were even ahead of Cuba, Uzbekistan, Colombia and Kazakhstan, many smaller countries. The achievements of these countries are far greater than those of our athletes, from Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We want this result to definitely improve in four years' time. The current strategy for preparing for the Olympics needs to be changed. We learn from the media that the Ministry of Sport plans to focus money on specific disciplines and athletes who regularly succeed in selected disciplines. A code of good sponsorship practices is to be established. Thanks to him...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u152	Madam President, please formulate the question, because the time has passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u153	...to get more money into certain disciplines. I'm almost done, Marshal. I have a question: Is there another plan for the necessary changes besides the Code of Good Sponsorship Practices? What legislative changes must take place in order to implement this necessary plan, linked to the introduction of the Code of Good Sponsorship Practices?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u154	Thank you, Member. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to your questions, whether other plans relating to the necessary changes are being prepared outside the Code of Good Sponsor Practices, I kindly inform you that the Ministry of Treasury, with the support of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, has developed a document This document proposes solutions for State Treasury companies planning sponsorship activities. These activities should be undertaken by companies in a transparent and responsible manner, following the fulfilment of the long-term economic and financial stability condition and assuming measurable results. This document takes the form of voluntary regulation which provides the basis for implementing the practices recorded there. Good practices propose using the potential to create a positive image by participating in projects carried out under the auspices of government administrations, and in particular by participating in projects of a national or transnational nature. For the first time, detailed recommendations were presented on the provisions of sponsorship agreements, including in particular the clauses enabling the sponsor to monitor, i.e. to supervise the expenditure of the sponsor and the provisions guaranteeing the appropriate allocation of funds. According to the document announced, funding should be used exclusively for training rather than for the maintenance of frequent administration and bureaucracy. An intra-corporate legal framework for sponsorship has also been defined and sponsorship areas have been defined, in particular: physical education, professional sport, sport of children and young people, cultural activities, science and public education, environmental initiatives and social actions. The Ministry of Sport and Tourism was involved in the implementation of this project by preparing for Polish sports unions a model questionnaire annexed to the application for sport sponsorship. By 18 July this year. 26 Polish Olympic sports associations submitted applications. In accordance with the practice adopted by treasure and sport resorts, the documentation in question has been evaluated by the internal team which prepared the relevant opinions. The Minister of Sport and Tourism gave appropriate recommendations for 11 Polish sports unions, while informing the public about this fact by publishing these requests on the Ministry's website. Currently, meetings with Polish sports unions are held in the sports department to sum up and evaluate the implementation of the preparation programme and launch of our representatives in Rio de Janeiro. The scope and level of funding of the activities of Polish sports unions in view of the start of the Olympic Games in Tokyo in 2020 will depend to a certain extent on the medalability of the unions. We intend to financially support the most powerful ones, create opportunities for forward-looking relationships and oblige the weakest ones to prepare development strategies with specific objectives for all stages of their implementation and the resulting tasks. However, it should be noted that in connection with the starting election campaign in Polish sports unions development strategies and directions of actions of individual unions may be modified. As regards the question of what legislative changes must take place in order to start implementing this necessary plan for the introduction of the Code of Good Practice, I would like to inform you that this document takes the form of voluntary regulation. Therefore, statutory amendments to the launch of a plan relating to the introduction of good sponsoring practices appear to be pointless. Turning to the next question, which criteria will guide the Ministry of Sport and Tourism in verifying those sports that should be prioritised and supported under the Code of Good Practice, I would just like to complement my earlier statement. The criteria contained in the model questionnaire annexed to the application for sport sponsorship are elements of the content assessment of the opinion of the ensemble and the basis for the recommendation given by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. These are among others.: a detailed description of the proposed task, including the date and place of its implementation, the identification of the main and stage objectives of the task, including training and organisation, the presentation of the schedule of actions, the cost of tasks and the expected financial contribution of the sponsor, the description of past achievements in the international arena and sports assumptions for the next sports season and multiannual training, the applicant's organisational experience, the identification of the media value and mutual benefit of cooperation with the sponsor, information on the applicant's financial situation, risk analysis and development strategies of the sport concerned, studies on the mediaity of sport and sponsorship offers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Kryj. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u157	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! It's obvious there won't be a big sport without money. However, it often happens that athletes pat down proverbial poverty, because despite their outstanding results, they practice non-media disciplines, where sponsors are extremely difficult. On the other hand, we have situations where activists of certain sports unions earn a fortune when money comes from both sponsors, from the state budget and from local budgets. This is true, despite the fact that the media informs about various types of corruption scandals, inform about doping scandals, and the results expected by fans in such disciplines do not exist. I have a question: What is the Ministry's idea not to do this? Is the implementation of this Code of Good Practice [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you also going to cooperate with local governments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u159	As for the first question, Mr President, it is precisely the code of good practice that says that there is no possibility, for example. the financing of the remuneration of activists or governors from sponsors. Here it is clearly stated for what purpose these funds are devoted to: training children and young people, possibly learning and such things. On the other hand, about working with local governments. Here, of course, work, cooperation is up to date. Two weeks ago, I met with representatives of Marshal Councils. I presented a proposal for cooperation for 2017. This particularly applies to cooperation concerning children and young people and training of voivodship personnel. The strategy we want to take is not only to Tokyo. This strategy must go even further: 8 and 12 years. Only these types of activities in sport give concrete results. If every 2, 3, 4 years we change this course of training, then really there will be very little effect. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u160	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the current session of the Sejm will consider information on the change in the education system announced on 16 September 2016, including the liquidation of secondary schools and the return to the 8-year primary school, the 4-year general high school and the 5-year-old technical school, which was proposed by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Therefore, I am closing the list of people who have joined the questions. High Izbo, 65 MPs signed up. We have an hour, so if you stick to these two minutes, you can only allow 30 questions. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: A minute maybe.]] Eventually we can, I can let everyone in after a minute. But I should warn you, me and, I suspect, the next marshal in charge will be very rigorously enforcing this minute. Please take the floor of your representative... I'll close the list, of course. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was just wondering how to put your proposal in a word. I think the best word that makes this proposal is thoughtlessness. I have no doubt that the changes you are proposing are irresponsible and the only effect they will bring will be great chaos, not any good change that you are constantly talking about. In addition, while listening to your speeches, I see an internal contradiction between what you are proposing and how That explains it. Well, that's what you're saying: it's more than demographic, which is why we have to do something about it. What's your offer? Well, your offer for non-demographics is that there should be more primary schools. Now we have 12,500. Primary schools, middle school, we have 7.5,000. There is an appeal for middle school to be transformed into primary school, so I understand that the effect and kind of the way that there is a situation where there are fewer students is an increase, a significant increase in the number of primary schools. How does that make sense, I don't know. You say this: we want to get back into this 8+4 system because we want the kids in school to feel safe. Okay, only as Minister of Education should you know that the biggest threat of violence is in primary school. Therefore, the remedy for being dangerous, your proposal is to join this group, which is most at risk of violence, to include two consecutive yearbooks. Does it hold up? I don't think so. You say that: we must provide work for all teachers. In this regard, you write in the bill that each teacher of the middle school from the vending machine will become a primary school teacher. I do not know whether it is arrogance, whether it is ignorance, but there is no doubt that it is merely a transfer of responsibility to local governments. What's going to happen? The elementary school will have eight classes. If we now have a team of schools where there is primary school and middle school, we have nine years. So we're going to have eight years, one less year. As a live eight-year-old, we need a little less teachers than nine. In fact, we're going to have seven years, because the decision made by you at the beginning of this year is an empty yearbook that will go through all stages of education, so in the coming years we'll have a primary school that will have seven years. Tell me if it's arrogance or ignorance on your part, that you can't imagine a situation where a group that works with nine years today will be exactly the same composition working with seven years old. I'll be honest with you, I was very pleased to hear that the state has implemented our request for the completion of the sixth grade exams. I was only worried now because it turned out that the Minister didn't understand why you took the exam. Our postulate came from the fact that the side effect of this exam, that is, ranking schools, exceeded all the benefits that should result from this exam. [[Too bad you didn't do it in the last few years.]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] Now it turns out that the exam isn't after the sixth grade, it's after the eighth grade, which is basically going to be the same, and ranking schools is going to be exactly the same. Moreover, we immediately throw these young people into a situation more difficult than before, because it is known that the sixth grade exam was only supposed to check what it looks like in the whole yearbook of children, and now it will be an exam, which will be a de facto preliminary exam for the higher stages of education. I've been trying for a long time to find out what your reform is all about. I don't know that. I mean, I understand that this is a postulate of the State of the electorate, I understand and respect, but it just so happens that the biggest opponents of junior high are those who have never been in these junior high schools, while those who have finished middle school, on the contrary, are supporters of leaving the status quo. Last sentence. You keep referring to the fact that the Poles wanted it so badly that the sovereign wanted it so. [[It's true.]] Well, the debate you're still talking about was a pseudo-debat. The initial state and the final state are exactly the same. You didn't hear any reason you weren't on your way. I assure you, I can show you a bunch of letters that are written by desperate parents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Speaking of which, you haven't changed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u162	Thank you very much, Member. Before I ask the Minister to speak, I would like to inform you that our deliberations are being listened to by the President of the National Council of the Provinces of South Africa, Mrs Thandi Modise and the delegation. Welcome, Madam President. [[Applause]] Please respond to the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the applicants for this next debate in a series of multi-month debates. It is about the possibility, first of all, of peaceful discussion, although verbal aggression announces a certain level of this debate, because it is worth explaining half-truths, lies and manipulations. We're talking about kids. Every child deserves a good school and a good teacher. We talk about parents, we talk about teachers. Therefore, we are obliged to be responsible and humble. [[What's the big deal?]] I have talked about this responsibility and humility since I became Minister of Education, and when I prepared the bill, because I understand that the proposal and argumentative subject of today's debate has not yet read the bill. We have a statutory public consultation, and we have an opportunity to correct what's wrong with the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, within 10 minutes, I will try very briefly to tell you why the change is now being made, why the change at all, and how this change is to be done, although it has actually been designed in the bill. Why now? Because, ladies and gentlemen, among others. The previous team had been building junior high school for 17 years and repairing junior high school. It is time to finish these discussions, to support the research of the Institute for Educational Research, American and British research, which was created in the 1990s, when it was decided that we would talk about middle school. It is also time to acknowledge what happened in Poland's first social debate, in the debate before the change, in which tens of thousands of people participated, contrary to what Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska said, also the opponents of these changes in various organizations and structures. Why now, ladies and gentlemen? That's because we've already prepared. In addition to meta-language, among others. Speaking of chaos, the language of aggression, which also sounded in the case of six-year-olds... You also argued that the chaos that parents are upset that teachers can't handle. Lots of money spent on anti-campaign. Well? Parents' freedom and decision - over 80% of six-year-olds learn, finally learn in kindergartens. It is not true, as the previous speaker said, that we are shortening education. Finally, the teachers of kindergarten and preschool education took out letters because they didn't have to teach writing and reading on secret sets. We teach, ladies and gentlemen, a child a year longer, because the child will not be 12 years old, but 13 years old because he has the right to education when he is 6 years old, and the parents have decided that he is studying in kindergarten. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we have already prepared the whole system. Teachers are very happy, parents are happy, children are happy. Not only the test after the sixth grade was eliminated, because we are talking about the fact that at this stage we verify the testomania. Besides, the whole system was also constructed. But we're talking about teaching, we're talking about what you haven't been able to give for eight years to young citizens who are graduating -- the possibility of appealing against the results of high school exams. We've actually given up on 50%. bureaucracy, because 50% There was no legal basis for the bureaucracy that teachers were talking about. It was just a whim of the Ministry of Education. At the same time, we agreed with local governments for the first time in 8 years, because they discussed with you for 8 years. We have sealed the grants, there are clear rules for non-public institutions - clear for them and for local authorities. You can verify public money. At the same time we planned this year, we calculated all the consequences of this action, which was planned in the draft law. Why now? This must also sound: out of respect for local governments, out of respect for citizens. [[Self-government is people.]] Like I said, it's time to end the discussion and make bold decisions that you couldn't afford. In 2018, i.e. in 2 years, local governments will have an election campaign. How much pride does it take to tell local governments that it's the right time to make changes in the system? [[Self-government is a community, not the mayor.]] And 2019 is the end of the term of office. How much pride and vanity does it take to leave the reform underway? You have to take responsibility and be brave. And now, ladies and gentlemen, why at all? There are dozens of reasons. Let me repeat: research of the Educational Research Institute, reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber. I encourage you to analyze, read reports that show what is happening in the system, among others. The ones about vocational education. A few weeks after the conclusion of the nationwide debate, on 27 June in Toruń, a few weeks after that day, the Supreme Audit Chamber actually confirmed all the assumptions and all the objectives that have already sounded in the bill. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, these studies clearly show that the stage interferes with education, the stage of development, the stage, the continuous start-up and actually endless, the non-union of the Community group, the peer group hinders education, responsibility and the habit of learning throughout life. You have eliminated general education, there is no general education, and we are all alarmed with despair that Polish society cannot learn. At the same time, we need to rebuild 4-year-old high school, we need to rebuild vocational education, we need to prepare students and employees. 'Cause, unfortunately, everyone's gonna get to college. In 2008, there were 3,600 thousand students, and at the moment there are 2,400 thousand students. And that's the prognosis. Therefore, we must take responsibility - attention - for 13 years of general education. We are restoring the education in question, because that was the expectation, that was the research. We're cutting down on the testomania. At the same time, we are talking about this, ladies and gentlemen, that teachers need to be taken care of, that teachers need to be better professionally trained, that small schools need to be taken care of. The state has ruined small schools, hence decisions to strengthen small schools. At the same time, when we discuss lifelong learning, we have in-depth research which clearly shows that small schools are a place for lifelong learning of these smallest communities, very often rural communities. Ladies and gentlemen, middle school was created to equalise educational opportunities. It happened exactly the other way around, and those are the odds that didn't even out. And this concern for the former Minister for Competitiveness is indeed artificial, because it has taken particular care of this competitiveness. Let me remind you: the educational added value will continue because there is a European project. This is how we organize this so that we can fulfil all the assumptions of this educational added value. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the planned reform responds to needs and teachers and parents and pupils. It is not true that this change will result in the dismissal of teachers. Where were you when almost 50,000 were fired over the last few years? Teachers? Where have you been? [[Applause]] [[I took them in.]] That's the state for today. When we talk about how structures will be changed - and you know it well, if you have read the law - it is worth talking about concrete things. As a result of this reform, more than 5 000 will be created. new branches. It's an extra job for teachers. At the same time, it is in the Act that the places where we will take care of this teacher are indicated. We will make sure that he is not only able to carry out his professional promotion, but also to make him feel safe. At the same time, we show in the Act that in addition to these structural and statutory safeguards we are also prepared financially, we also think about local governments. Because it's not true that local governments are going to get hurt. I remind you, for the first time in history, the Minister of Education has kept his word. We were talking about a six-year-old, responsibility for a six-year-old, and there's going to be an education grant. It will - in 2017. Now that we're talking about the education of a six-year-old, it's gonna be an education grant. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And local governments, especially those who were worried, know for sure that ultimately in education subsidies they will have nine years, just like now, and for 2 years they will have 10 years. We're in agreement, and we're looking for that consent. I also encourage Members of the opposition to talk about education in such a way as to look for what we have in common and, above all, what is good for the child. Once again, every child deserves a good school and a good teacher. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u164	Thank you very much, Mrs... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: corrected because my name was mentioned. One word.]] Please, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Corrigendum short. It's a short math lesson. In our system the student also studied 13 years, only started this school in kindergarten at the age of 5, so it is still exactly the same 13 years, only at the moment the primary school, as I understand it, will last 8 years, and not 9 years, which means you shorten by 1 year this stage of education, which is common to everyone. And I understand that if you are the first minister to keep his word, the Minister of Law and Justice for the 2005-2007 term of office did not keep his word. That's the way it's supposed to be, isn't it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u166	I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. I've already closed the list of people who signed up. I'm opening a discussion. Once again, I ask you very warmly to observe the time which I have assigned to the question, namely 1 minute so that all Members who are written may ask the question. The first question is asked by Mrs Marzena Machalek. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! To be honest, we really have a very important and very difficult reform ahead of us. She is difficult because the last 8 years have been the destruction of Polish education. It was the dismantle of general education schools, it was the forced incorporation of six-year-olds into schools, it was a terrible program basis, it was avalanche, uncontrolled dismissals of teachers, it was avalanche liquidation of schools. We really have a discussion ahead of us about this project, and frankly, I was hoping that this discussion would be substantive, but the former Minister - I don't know if it was ignorance or arrogance, as she put it - did not raise any substantive issue. [[Talk about reform.]] My question to the Minister is as follows. Before us is a discussion, before we look at a very serious and detailed law. Can we count on changes to be made? Will we be able to count on this not to be a rigid, closed project? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u168	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u169	And is there openness to other opinions and other ideas? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u170	Thank you very much. And I would ask you to ask Ms Krystyna Shumilas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u171	Minister! Mr. Marshal! I was also hoping for a serious discussion, but in the words of the Minister I did not hear any argument here, first of all, in order to introduce this reform. [[Voice from the room: Parents...]] The Minister, speaking of what she intended, referred to the future. Yes, Minister, we all care about the welfare of the child. Every kid deserves a good school. I have a question: Why, then, do you harm the current yearbook of children going to sixth grade? First of all, there's no basis for programming since September. These kids are supposed to learn physics, chemistry according to the new rule. There are no physical or chemical studios in primary schools. They'll stay in a school where they don't have learning conditions. You're talking about improving the quality of education. Then why are you pulling back? [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the natural part of the exam after the eighth grade of primary school? I want only history, Polish language, mathematics, foreign language. Why do you not want to allow students to learn scientific thinking, critical thinking, so that natural sciences and mathematics are important in Polish school? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: The tests were scientific.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u172	Thank you. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! I would like to know if we will ever be presented with any research that the Minister refers to. [[Exactly.]] Because I feel like you guys were just doing everything for purely ideological and populist reasons, just because 60% of the time. society doesn't like middle school. Why are you telling me the truth that PISA exams don't test your skills? Have you ever seen any PISA exams? Did you know that in the PISA tests in mathematics, as far as the European Union is concerned, Poland has made the biggest leap that we have moved from 14th to 4th place in mathematics since 2003? We're almost ex aequo with Finland. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Thanks to parents.]] From natural objects and from reading with understanding we are also practically everywhere in the top five. We are third, for example, with the ability to read with understanding. You've made a decision for populist reasons. You talk a lot about the words: humility and responsibility. These are the concepts that are lacking in this reform. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have not taken care of quality in this reform in any way. Only for polling reasons have you decided to reform which destroys Polish education. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u174	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From those slogans that fell here, and the insult is going to be huge chaos and confusion when it comes to Polish education, and in fact it is used in politics what used to be... Let me be clear: middle school was introduced in 1999 because social activity concerned those who had ever finished middle school and had to live with that sentiment and gave it to them. Many of the current members of the PiS voted in favour of this and supported it. Today, when there are no longer those who went to junior high, and there are those who graduated from 8th grade, you have to throw the password: how wonderful it was when 8 classes worked - let's use it, yes. [[Then they'll come from middle school.]] The question is, what's going to happen in a few years, why are we doing all this, because we're not talking about the program base, about progress, about jumping forward, we're just living with sentiments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, you're as interdisciplinary as you once said, so I'd like to ask you what you're going to do next. [[Applause]] [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochocka: Energy.]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u176	Mr Richard Galla, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In connection with the announcement and announcement of the reform of the education system, I would like to ask, as Vice-President of the Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities and the person who represents the national minorities in the Polish Sejm, questions that are precisely relevant to minority education. My first question concerns the amendment of the law in general, including the programme basis. Will the current provisions on the teaching of the languages of national and ethnic minorities and the history and culture at the level of 8th grade primary and secondary schools be maintained? Will the existing funding for teaching the languages of national and ethnic minorities also be maintained? What about teachers who may lose their jobs in relation to reform, especially as regards teachers teaching the languages of national and ethnic minorities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And do you also take into account the consultation of the minority environment, including the Joint Committee on Government and National and Ethnic Minorities, during the work on the amendment of the law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u178	Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the current system of funding for education, local governments receive funding for running schools through educational subsidies. Pre-school education is not covered by the subsidy. It is financed by local authorities from own resources, such as CIT and PIT. Minister, my question is: Did the Ministry of Education, responding to the need, prepare to provide additional resources for six-year-olds who will remain under preschool education who will not go to the first grade of primary school? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, they'll be taken from the commercial tax.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u180	Thank you. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Membership! You started today, Minister, with such an expression: it is worth explaining half-truths and manipulations. I'll start with your statement on September 16th. You said this: the introduction of middle school and the extension of school according to the same program did not result in a level playing field for school students. You also said how much pride and vanity it takes... How much pride and vanity does it take to treat Polish middle school teachers in such a way? It's outrageous, it's just so sad, it's hard to find words to describe it. You will be the first minister to speak so outrageously and behaved towards people who work with children in a really difficult period of development. You'll be the first minister to treat teachers like that. You said today... You're even calling for research all the time. So PISA studies, already cited, are the first, and the study of the Institute of Educational Research - another. You only choose the ones you answer. You're not talking about safety or achievements, unfortunately, sorry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're talking about respect for local governments and the uprising of 5,000. new branches. And why aren't you talking about what's gonna happen to the old wards, what's gonna happen to the vocational schools, what's gonna happen to the wards that work? [[Time.]] What will you say today to a few thousand teachers whose contracts have not been renewed and therefore they are not working? What are you going to say to a few thousand teachers who are running away today on vacations to save their health because there's no job for them?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u182	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u183	Are you going to tell them they're going to work like you said last time? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u184	No, I'm sorry. Mrs. Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As one of the arguments behind the liquidation of junior high schools, you referred to the accumulation of aggression in junior high. However, the results of studies carried out by the Educational Research Institute clearly indicate that the most violent phenomena are present in the last classes of primary school. Do you think, after the combination of children's education under one roof from 7 to 15 years, the level of these violence and aggressions will fall or will they increase? If you still believe that the liquidation of junior high schools will contribute to the decline in school violence, then I ask the Minister for a clear and simple declaration. Are you prepared to resign as Minister and submit a parliamentary mandate if, in the first year following the reform, the number of acts of aggression in schools increases from the level of the 2015/2016 school year just completed? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u186	Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The platform threatened students and parents with chaos because parents can freely decide whether to go to school or to kindergarten because of the restoration of the role of curator and then to close the exam after 6th grade. [[Applause]] None of these armageddon announcements have worked. Today you try teachers, especially middle school teachers, to scare everyone out of their jobs. Just now, one of the messengers was talking about how many teachers are gonna lose their jobs or have already lost their jobs, about how the ministry isn't doing anything. It forgets completely that a large part of the teachers' dismissal is simply due to demography, a decreasing number of students. Nevertheless, Minister, it is worth reminding you what legal solutions will be adopted so that middle school teachers can move to work at 8 years of primary school or high school, and that there will be the same number of students without [[♪ The bell ♪]] because of the structure of schools. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u188	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you are calling for a substantive discussion, and you yourself are using a small school that is closed down as an argument in this important discussion. Does the Minister know who will pay the highest price for this revolution you are proposing? In two years' time, primary school graduates, including graduate students, will fight for high school seats and other schools. In addition, they do not know on the basis of what programming basis they are to prepare for these exams, whether on the basis of the currently functioning ones, or perhaps on the basis of those invented by you. I'll remind you that a year ago, you guys were here looking out for six-year-olds who were supposed to go to well-prepared schools. And today you send those six-year-olds, and they don't know what school they're going to. But let me tell you, I'm sure [[♪ The bell ♪]] Many of them will go to unprepared middle school buildings. Mr. and Mrs. Elbanovsky, where are you? Save those little guys. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u190	Mrs Barbara Dolniak, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Has work been started on the textbooks for Class VII? If not, how long is it envisaged to start this work? Let us consider the fact that by mid-October we have time to ask questions about the programme proposals - from 16 September to 15 October, this was the information - then there must be a detailed programme of the adoption of laws, a detailed programme of changes, which we then have here, in the Seym, to celebrate, and time runs, because by 1 September we already have less than 12 months, of course 2017. Therefore, will it not be the temporary manuals for temporary programmes, given such a short period of time? And temporary, unfortunately, is just any kind of thing. We ourselves have the opportunity to see how this law here we create, that quickly it means anything. And for how many years these textbooks are to be used in primary school classes VII and VIII, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And to the high school classes in the new program? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u192	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern. [[Voice from the room: It was already modern.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! [[Why twice in a row?]] Minister, I have such a very specific question. In one of the sub-Warsaw communes is built ultra-modern junior high school with full equipment, with a gymnasium, with swimming pool. Well, it's a really beautiful object. Many such objects in the country are being built at the moment. [[What's the problem with it becoming elementary school?]] It is, it is middle school, something concrete, because I know this situation well. It is designed for the requirements of junior high school. There will be so many rooms, so many suitable devices that are adapted to this particular object. Moreover, this facility is financed or co-financed by European funds. The fears of this community are as follows. First of all, how can this object be well used in your new system? Secondly, will it not be difficult here to settle these European measures, because the concerns are very, very serious? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This example shows how important a stable country is. How important are the elements of a stable country...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u194	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u195	...including the education system. We shouldn't change it every four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u196	Mr Aleksander Anczynski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Studies show that Poles in the vast majority are in favour of the liquidation of junior high schools. Already at the time of their formation, and especially after 3 years, when the school walls were abandoned by the first graduates of junior high school, there was a strong criticism of them. Graduates of junior high school stood at the threshold of 3 years of high school with the decision to choose the so-called. slopes, leading objects. Often this decision was wrong. The statistics show that. For example, in high school classes, so-called. Mathematics at the extended level seemed to be about 50% students. Graduates of junior high may have chosen a 4-year-old tech school. The result was a lack of time to prepare the student properly for the prom exam. This was caused by too few hours of theoretical classes. High Seym! The arguments are far more against the existence of middle school. On the other hand, the attitude of the opposition, especially the Civic Platform, is very surprising in view of the liquidation of secondary schools. Very good solutions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which we propose to the Polish school, are totally torpedoed, medialy destroyed by the opposition. Minister, in the new framework teaching plans in the high school of general education, will the student have the right to choose the leading subjects...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u198	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u199	...not like before, but after I or second grade? And does the student who chooses...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u200	Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u201	... The 5-year-old tech school will have a greater opportunity to take the prom exam...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u202	Thank you very much, sir. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u203	...and thus the choice of a better university? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The OECD report states: the PISA 2012 survey indicates that Polish schools are better at developing self-thinking skills than in previous decades. You can talk about a breakthrough in math teaching. Polish students surpassed students from other countries in solving the vast majority of tasks for reasoning. The weakness of the Polish school, consisting in focusing attention on the skills of playback, has been overcome. And also headlines from Polish and foreign press: Poland, as an example of educational success, Poland among countries with the most effective education systems. These are facts, the rest are myths and lies distributed by Minister Zalewska. The claim that middle school is bad schools is as true as the claim that there was an assassination in Smolensk. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] You are a Macierewicz of Polish education and you should be ashamed of it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What a level.]] And if you don't see the connection between PISA results [[♪ The bell ♪]] And with the effects of junior high education, you should resign yourself and not wait for our request. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Strong arguments.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u205	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The next year's budget does not secure any funding for education reform. Does this mean, then, that the Ministry of Education wants to leave with the problem of the lack of these means of school and self-government? Saying that reform is costless is a lie and the Minister knows it. A lot of resources will be needed, among others. to change the marking of schools, exchange of seals, checks for teachers, administrative staff. We'll also need money to upgrade our facilities, renovate and adapt our rooms. The problem will be particularly affected by rural middle school or even rural communities, where one middle school usually functioned and served students from several towns. What will a biology teacher have at his disposal a single teaching room? You want him to ride with a skeleton under his arm from school to school? That's what you want to bring to this, pretending that reform [[♪ The bell ♪]] Education is free? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u207	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u208	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The arguments that we heard just moments ago from the Member of the Civic Platform are the arguments of unworthy people involved in education, Polish education. [[Applause]] [[What's unworthy?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish school needs to be reformed. This is undeniable. But there's another sad truth. The Polish school needs to be repaired after 8 years of government of PO-PSL, and the former Minister, who was thundering today from this Seym Council, knows this because she herself talked about the need for reform in 2015. Let me remind you of the words of the Minister: Without changing the education system, there is no point in adding more money. Minister, any change raises some concerns, and it is obvious that it raises concerns for the people, the groups concerned. In this case, the most concerned group are middle school teachers [[♪ The bell ♪]] And these anxietys are very fueled. [[What about the parents and the children?]] [[They're happy.]] How does the Ministry plan to take care of middle school teachers so that they do not lose their jobs as a result of the reform? They are often well-educated, with many qualifications and...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u209	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u210	...excellent content workshop. [[Applause]] [[Do you have a middle-aged child?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u211	Thank you very much. Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u212	Dear Marshal, Minister! In 2019 there will be a situation in which there will be two years. That'll be 700,000. children who will have to compete with each other during high school recruitment. It's gonna be the first year that's gonna be... The first year will be the eighth grade and the second year will be the third grade of middle school. These kids are gonna have to compete with each other and there's not enough room for them because schools aren't made of rubber. For example, if you recruit for high school instead of eight people in one place, there will be 16 people in one place. What's more, you're going even further, because in the first grade of high school there will be two recruitments, because some will have to go to high school, which will have three classes, and others will have to go to high school, which will have four classes. In general, the more pathological situation will be when someone fails e.g. in the third grade of junior high in 2019, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because he's gonna have to go back to elementary school, which means he's gonna have two graduating degrees. And it's just unthinkable. He'll have two of the same diplomas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Junior high school kid. You can see the effects.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u213	Thank you, Member. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The conference in Toruń announced that the minimum number of hours allocated to the implementation of the programme base would be cancelled. I wanted to ask: Is the Ministry of Education planning to announce the announced basis for educational lessons? Does this mean that educational lessons will now be limited to solving problems identified in the ministry and the same in all schools? What about individual cases in class? Then what role will the teacher have in school? And one more question: Does MEN plan to introduce a uniform framework for teaching in all schools? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u215	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As I listen to today's debate here, I think: how untrue, how cynical is what you say... [[It's a fact.]] ...how many half-truths, how many bad emotions. Instead of thinking about the baby, you're really thinking about each other. [[Applause]] [[That's where you're headed, that's where you're headed.]] But I want to ask you something else, Minister. I get such information that most local governments accept these changes with hope and approval, but they are like this. The local government of Poznań, which is unknown from where they calculate some extraordinary sums, is allowed online by them, that supposedly they already have to invest very much in this education, but when asked about the specifics, they correspond to the generals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask: What is the truth, Minister, will the local governments really lose so much? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u217	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I know you from the Energy Commission as a calm, orderly Member who fought against windmills. But today, as a minister, you are blowing the wind at the Polish school. I wanted to remind you of the proverb: whoever is sowing the wind is gathering the storm, so that you will remember the proverb exactly, because this is how it ends, this reform of ours. Minister, I wanted to ask you: How do you want to solve the problem of yearbooks where the old and the new system will coincide? What about the cost of introducing a new base to high school when high school parents have to buy new textbooks? Will the Minister spend any money to finance the purchase of these textbooks in high school? And the third question: How will the problem of teachers' employment be solved? So let's say that [[♪ The bell ♪]] the number of students does not change, the number of branches - teachers will still have problems with employment because they are not qualified. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[How can they not be qualified?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u219	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Here it was already said what will be in 2019 when two yearbooks go to school. The lady always says: Everything is numbered, everything is fine, be calm, we are prepared. Okay, but I want to know exactly how many places we have right now in high school, technicians, vocational schools together, because we need to prepare ourselves that in 2019 it will be 350 thousand. children less. Or is it just this place, and isn't it going to be the only way to save the kids from going to schools that have 40 people in class? And so that it's not that this competition is really gonna make them not go to their dream schools, but they're gonna learn a profession they don't want. And the second question - the basis of the program. I was concerned that you signed an agreement to prepare textbooks for the history of IPN. We know what opinions are... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: No.]] ...the president... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: No.]] Isn't there a cooperation agreement? [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Please tell the truth.]] Okay, so I hope the history books aren't prepared. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's based on such things that we find out that the murders in Jedwabne were made by an unidentified ethnic group that Lech Walesa would be embellished...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u221	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u222	...from history...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u223	Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u224	...and that the Smolensk disaster will be an assassination. Thank you very much. [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[You're full of crap.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u225	Mr Andrzej Kryj, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The aims of the reform presented by you have met with criticism of the opposition. It's no wonder that this opposition has long announced that it will be a total opposition. That is why there are numerous allegations, including the allegation that there are no concrete proposals, no concrete solutions. Reading into assumptions, one can see that this is not a real charge, but it causes concern for local government officials, teachers, parents. So I have the first concrete question: What will be the implementation of the reform in the teams of sports championships, where there is middle school and sports high school? And I have a second question for the applicants. You are very happy to rely on various kinds of research, juggle these results. The question is short: How will you comment on the fact that Polish junior high students are happy in their schools, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have they answered one who places them at 59th place in 65 classified countries? They're just unhappy in these schools. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u227	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u228	Minister! I am the father of Cornelia, who is 11 years old and which this reform you are preparing will touch directly. And I came to ask you about my child's future. On behalf of other parents who have children in the fifth and sixth classes, I would also like to ask you. I'm a little sorry when you're accusing us of being arrogant and shoey today, because we really don't have any arrogance and shoes, we're just worried about the future of our kids. We're terrified to see what's going to happen. A few months ago, everything was obvious to us. We knew what our children's educational route would be like. We had plans for what middle school our kids would go to after primary school. Today, unfortunately, we don't know anything. The parents of the fifth and sixth graders don't know what school the kids are going to in September. We have no idea if our kids are going to the same school next year - I mean the school building. We don't know if the seventh grade is gonna stay in this school or if it's gonna be in another school. And what will be the selection criteria for the seventh grade if this seventh grade is in another school? But if the seventh grade kids stay in this school, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are there enough places for the children of the classes that come - I think of the first class? And if the eighth grade comes, will there be enough seats for all the children? Isn't there such a fear that we'll be our children, for example. I, from the VII or the eighth grade had to lead to two completely different schools?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u229	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u230	My older daughter goes to middle school...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u231	Thank you, sir, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u232	...and tells my junior that this is a very good school. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u233	Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u234	And I'd like to ask you why my younger... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...daughter can't go... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u235	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern. Please watch your time. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question: In which class will he repeat the first grade of junior high school, which will not receive promotion at the end of the year 2016/2017 - whether in elementary school or where? And the second question, similar: What will happen to the third grade student in 2019 if he does not receive a promotion? What's gonna happen to him? Such questions, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u237	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u238	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Fortunately, only a few local governments are bringing their inhabitants into information chaos about the proposed education reform. Recently, I was at a meeting in the town hall of Płock with locals and locals. Ladies and gentlemen, the President closes the kindergarten and, I quote, he explains this to the residents: because of the proposed education reform of Minister Anna Zalewska. Unfortunately, the residents and parents present at the town hall are not fooled. They're attacking the President very hard, not the Minister. So... [[Exactly.]] Mr. President of the city of Płock. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Doesn't the city of Płock manipulate the information given to its inhabitants that the proposed reform forces the local government to bear enormous costs or to close down its premises? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u239	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u240	Minister! Your reform is such a compound on granial wheels, such a perspective of several years of confusion and humming, as regards the education system in Poland, caused even by empty and double yearbooks, program bases torn out and written on the knee, double course of high school exams and studies, inevitable liquidation and transfer of many schools as a result of the release in municipalities of 1/5 of the area of educational institutions, conviction of well-deserved junior high school teachers on the patchwork between the municipality and the county - in total a great tribute to losses and social and financial costs. Self-governments, they estimate, will spend a billion zlotys on adjustment. There are no reforms without cost. In what formula and size will these expenses be compensated? What about middle school teachers? Their hard and undoubtedly fruitful work must not be paid for by the loss of their career and career prospects. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, is there at least agreement on this matter? And, finally, how are we going to measure the effects of the demolition reform if the EWD measurement is going to wait many years? If this measurement is possible in the affected system at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u241	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern. Mrs Schmidt is not here. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is concern for the child on both the opposition's lips and on our side today. The reform proposed by the Government of Law and Justice, namely the appreciation of the first stage of education in classes I-III... This has been noticed and here is a measurable concern for the foundations of the education of the young, future generation of Poles. Minister, I have a question: in Class IV, the teacher who will walk with class I-III will be... What will he have to do with these disciples? And one more thing. You say there's arrogance on our side, a shoe, immodestness. So what to call the words spoken in the interview by Mrs. Kluzik-Rostkowska, former minister, when she sent her children to private school, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because these, and so the teachers there, are making you think, and the state schools aren't? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u243	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, management is the quality of every minister, and good governance is the quality of a good minister. However, I am sorry to say that at the moment you are managing fear and bitterness - the bitterness of teachers who find that after years of working in junior high they do not fulfil the task, do not meet the criteria and have reportedly submitted to middle school, middle school have died; fear because they fear for their jobs. The coming year, 2016/2017, is from the point of view of the psychology of teaching and psychology of existence in school time lost. How to work well without any prospects? You said that one of the pillars of the reform is that young people will be from the first grade - children - to the seventh or eighth grade in one team. How is it that in Class VII, as I hear it, it will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] class division and e.g. Will the bilingual class be made? So you're going to have to change this pillar of your thinking about a single class in primary school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u245	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern. There is no Member. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u246	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today's reform, which is being prepared by the Government of Law and Justice, is a reform expected by society, by my parents, which is why I have a question to ask the Minister: How are you going to change teachers' institutions, both public and non-public, in order to prepare teachers first and foremost for this reform, because a well-prepared teacher will work well for the student, the school and the whole system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u247	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Eliminating middle school is ignoring many years of hard work by teachers. After the liquidation of secondary schools, especially in rural schools, it will be difficult to provide the students with care and safety, because teachers will complement the workstations. Many of them will lose their jobs. In a small town, Żywiec, where we have three junior highs, we're talking about 65 jobs. 17 years of middle school existence are the huge costs that have been incurred to teach them today at the right level. Adaptations, renovations, adaptation of rooms, computers, computer equipment, collections - these are just some of the noted expenses. Most of the material possessions will be lost, and thus close to the charge for the mismanagement of the Ministry. There will be new, enormous needs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and related expenses. Can you afford such an unnecessary educational revolution? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u249	Thank you. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After the reform, what will integration teaching look like? Does the Ministry maintain the idea of not forming joint branches with healthy and disabled children? [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: This is not true. Please don't repeat the truth.]] That's the kind of information that came out in the media. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: There has never been such information.]] [[But, Minister, don't disturb me.]] Doesn't the government support the so-called. an inclusive education system? Minister, you'll have time to answer... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: But, Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u251	Minister, you're about to answer. [[Voice from the room: Please, these emotions...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u252	...and I hope that this will be explained then. Question: "Should children with disabilities only learn in special schools?" By what date and did work begin on the writing of Class VII textbooks for blind children at all? How long does the publishing and production cycle of such a textbook take? Minister! I don't know if you know, but there's a big problem with the deaf people's environment because there's no guaranteed access to sign language translation in schools. In a situation where deaf parents have a hearing child, they have no possibility [[♪ The bell ♪]] Contacting the school, with the teachers to find out what the situation of the child is. Let me just remind you that on the last Sunday of September, the 25th of September, is the world's day of deaf people. They're waiting for concrete solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u253	Thank you. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 17 years of operation of 6-year primary schools and 3 year-old junior high schools is the time to make continuous adjustments to this system, which seems to have run out of results, especially in terms of equalising educational opportunities, and marginalized vocational training. The new system and the prospect of two-stage professional education are an expected opportunity to rebuild vocational training and meet the real needs of the economy and the labour market. However, I wanted to ask the Minister: What are the most important changes to the new education law in order to meet employers' expectations for the reconstruction of vocational training? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u255	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, in one of the last TV interviews, you said that the opposition should remain silent about the reform of the education you are planning. No, Minister, the opposition will not remain silent in the face of the chaos that you offer to parents, children, teachers in the education system, in the face of the threat of losing about 40,000. jobs by teachers or in the face of the burden of the costs to be borne by local governments, at the level of PLN 1 billion. Minister! By whom have you repeatedly mentioned the Minister of Research? I request that the names of the institutions which carried out these analyses and the names of their authors be given. Finally, why did you not allow the debate on the structure of education in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, she didn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u257	Thank you. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two questions. The first question from an ideological point of view PiS may be too pragmatic, but I wanted to ask you about EU funds and whether the elimination of secondary education would cause the need to return this support from EU funds. One of the basic conditions for receiving the grant is the need to maintain the facility for 5 years. The opinions of experts on this matter are different. Question: "How will the Minister react to this, and who gave such an opinion?" Question two. In the reform programme you announce two different Maturas. Is there supposed to be a worse Matura after industrial schools, which gives you access to selected studies only at the bachelor's level? How does the Minister imagine two types of bachelors? Would they be, for example. Bachelor's degree? What about the Bologna system? How do you intend to convince other countries of the European Union to do this? I also have a question: What does Minister Gowin think of such an idea? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u259	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice have the floor. There is no Member. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u260	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to draw attention to the three elements that have already been raised here, but it seems that the Minister somehow does not understand them at all or does not notice them or does not want to notice them. It is a matter of aggression in schools, and it is true that this aggression is indeed the largest in primary schools, in classes V and VI of primary schools. The addition of the next two classes will, of course, strengthen this element. Pay attention to that. The second point is that the negative effect will be that, in the case of young people, these children, you are forcing a delay in thinking about your future by the fact that these two years will still have to learn in an extended elementary school. In the meantime, they could choose the leading subjects in middle school. And the third point: adapting the infrastructure of the current junior high schools, especially the buildings, [[♪ The bell ♪]] all infrastructure for primary schools. Who will bear these costs? Does the state budget provide for this or will it normally burden local governments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u261	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, this is very interesting: solving the demographic problem by increasing the number of schools. On the other hand, I have a question for the Minister about middle school. Among those over 3,000. middle school about 740 is a middle school run by associations and churches, religious unions. How do you imagine these facilities will operate after your reform at the moment? After all, even when it turns into a primary school, this middle school will operate on the same circuit, i.e. in relation to the same number of children. They also run self-government schools. So there will certainly be liquidation of some of these facilities. In such a situation, you dare say that there will be no dismissal of teachers. I think this is a big misunderstanding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u263	Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft reform presented by the Minister also includes the project of vocational education reform. Before a moment ago, the Minister asked: what is the purpose of your reform, because I do not understand and do not know. So I propose that you read the last report of the NIK, which says that the vocational education system is ineffective, that graduates have serious problems finding employment, and that the level of unemployment in this group is 41%. Come on. The number of schools in the professions is steadily decreasing. In 2005 there were 5009, and now in 2015 we have 4026. At the same time, there are no employees performing specific medical professions. That's what this reform is for. Minister, local government officials are concerned that the introduction, pace and timing of these changes may lead to the fact that they will not be able to understand the labour market, that there will be no time to talk to employers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to prepare the appropriate directions. Is that true? Can such fears be resolved? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u265	Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Several times today in this Chamber it has been said that 2019 is in a sense a cumulation in the education. They will be graduates of the senior high school and, for the first time, of the eighth grade. They will learn in classes with different software bases. They will also take exams adapted to these two curriculum bases. How does the Ministry of National Education intend to prevent students and parents from lowering their Matura and disinformation, as this will result in two Matura exams: easier for industry schools and more difficult for general education schools? I'm asking you to explain, because these are the questions my parents give me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u267	Thank you. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question about self-government and government support, namely: Will the government provide financial assistance to all local government units for the dismissal of teachers, for the conversion of buildings, for the adaptation and equipment of classrooms, so that in the existing primary schools serve 15-year-olds and in junior high schools six - and seven-year-olds? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u269	Thank you. Mr Adam Abramowicz, the Law and Justice have the floor. [[Absent.]] Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u270	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Minister has talked a lot about research, so I'll give you the facts of such research. In the spring of this year I turned to all the local government units from my constituency, this is district number 22 in Podkarpacie. As you probably know, this is not a district that favors my political formation, on the contrary. The 82 local governments responded to 76 local governments, although in many cases there were no answers or they were incomplete, because then there was no decision to liquidate the middle school. 111 million - costs incurred by local governments to prepare schools, but that's good because they benefit from children. 47.5 million - loss of subsidies in connection with the elimination of the obligation to teach six-year-olds, 374 people to be released, mainly teachers and administrations, almost 9 million costs due to benefits. Does the Ministry intend to compensate for these losses and how? One last question. Previously, PiS claimed that six-year-olds in six-grade school weren't safe with 12-year-olds. It's like today's seven-year-olds and even six-year-olds whose parents decide to send them to school will be safe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At an eight-class school with 15-year-olds? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u271	Thank you. The voice of Mrs Monica Rosa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In its assumptions for the reform, the Minister writes that a child who has started to learn a particular foreign language should continue this language at a later stage of learning. Hence my question: If a child learns English and French at primary school, he will choose high school, dreamed up, the best in the region where this language will not be taught, will he have a chance to go to this high school, or will he not be able to do so? If he chooses a tech school that doesn't have any of these foreign languages, will he be able to go to it, or will he be sentenced to go to a school that he didn't choose, but in which there is a continuing study of this language that he learned at primary school? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u273	Thank you. Mr Bernadette Krynick's voice, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform. There isn't any either. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Someone has just mentioned here that vocational education is limping, but it will not be better and will limp further, even because the individual subordinate to the Minister, the Centre for the Development of Education, for example, sabotages the possibility to make proposals on the basics of software for the profession of engineer driver, and as we know, the needs of the market in this area... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: This is not true, the case is closed.]] That's right, that's right. [[Minister, calm down.]] Minister, I'm afraid it's blocking. He didn't include this profession on the list where you can report it, so you can't report it... and these are associations that want to do it, and they can't. On the other hand, the second thing I want to ask the Minister is bilingual and artistic education. It was allowed, I mean it could be done at the middle school level. These children could be guided to develop their talents, to develop their language skills, to develop their artistic skills in junior high school, and to do so as if they were better education. But it looks like it'll be possible now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only at high school level. Please explain this situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u275	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just like the opposition was against six-year-olds... [[You guys are.]] ...so now you're against the liquidation of junior high, because by definition you're against every PiS idea. And you just have to admit, this middle school experiment just didn't work out. I am the father of three children, two of whom went to middle school, so I have a much bigger idea than the Member. I was the chairman of the parent's council, the parent's counsel, who worked closely with the director, with the teachers. I know how critical your parents and your teachers and your students have toward middle school. You're threatening teachers with dismissals, Minister, but isn't it that the only threat in recent years is demography, not the current reform? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u277	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Henczyca, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You said the day before yesterday that in most cases education reform would only mean a change of sign. This statement is a real mockery and incompetence. I'm saying this as the mother of a sixth grader, a polishist and a long-term uncle. As you imagine, seven. - and 15-year-olds in one hallway? How are you going to solve the huge problem of accumulation of yearbooks not only in schools, in college, but also later in the labour market? In a moment there will be a total coup in the world, and you don't even have the basics. The reform will result in massive redundancies among teachers. Powerful costs will mostly be passed on to local governments. Therefore, I have a question to the Minister: Do you really think that Polish self-government, Polish school, Polish education and Polish children are just a sign that can be hung from a building to a building? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u279	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u280	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, why aren't there any natural subjects on the 8th grade exam? [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: What? Eight-grader?]] Are knowledge and skills of biology, chemistry, geography and physics less important than history? What about the kids with the skills? Why should their chances of getting into the best high schools be less than humanists? Ladies and gentlemen, why is this so important? In Poland there are the least doctors in the European Union. These doctors are missing. This is 2.2 doctors per 1,000 inhabitants. And at this point, we're losing our chance to raise new doctors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u281	Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform, has the floor. There isn't any either. Is Mrs. Ursula Ruseck from Law and Justice? There isn't either. Are you Mr. Krzysztof Brejza from the Civic Platform? Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. Mr Szymon Ziółkowski, Civic Platform. Mr Piotr Olszówka, Law and Justice. Mr Adam Korol, Civic Platform. Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice. [[I'm here.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The priority at work of the Minister of Education is the concern for the intellectual and physical development of children and young people, including the struggle with the nightmare that affects our youngest ones, i.e. overweight. The best effect of combating obesity is achieved through physical, motor and general development activities. For the past few years, the Minister of Education from the Civic Platform, instead of increasing access to physical education, has been fighting yeast, and in the end, she has lost to them because these buns have returned to school shops. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: On the other hand, I fought for yeast.]] Minister, I therefore have a question: Will children in primary school from 1st to 3rd have lessons in physical education or other activities with teachers prepared in direction for these lessons, but with the assumption that this will not be at the expense of the teacher's pension of early school education? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u283	Thank you. Mrs Danuta Pietraszewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the beginning of this week, you gave two interviews that I heard. In the first one, in response to a journalist's question, you stated that the educational revolution you are preparing for local governments would be costless. In the next interview, you went further, stating that the local governments in this reform would even gain. This is called the peak of hypocrisy, if you consider that local governments, which, unlike you, Minister, have calculated the consequences of the liquidation of the junior high schools themselves, have estimated these costs per billion zlotys. And someone's lying. Who? In a 400-page draft of changes to this revolution in 10 years, the government has planned 214 million, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Half of which will start next year. How are you going to do all these costs? This is a self-government trap. You want local governments not to be able to accomplish their own tasks...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u285	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u286	...and then it'll be easier to undermine their existence...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u287	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u288	...because they didn't do their job. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] It is a pisow road to liquidation of local governments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u289	Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, Graduation of secondary education is closely linked to plans to improve secondary education. In view of the above, I would like to ask the question: How will the proposed changes, according to forecasts, contribute to the easier entry into the labour market of future graduates of the new education system? And the second question, if I have time. Last year IBRiS conducted a survey in which Poles were asked, among others. Whether or not they want to close down middle school. 70% The respondents were in favour of liquidation. A similar survey was conducted when parents were asked to remove their schooling obligation for six - year - olds. It follows that the proposed law is also listening to the voice of the parents. Please refer to your parents' opinions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u291	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u292	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I also go back to 2019, when in high school, it is in high school and in technology, students who started in middle school this year, and those who will not go to middle school next year, but to the seventh grade of primary school. So it's going to be two years old. Please inform me that you are not expecting the Minister of Trouble and Perturbation in the proper organisation of secondary education. Will schools and local governments cope with this in terms of organizational and financial terms? And does the Ministry provide for support for schools and local authorities in this area? And here, in connection with earlier sayings with proverbs, I will say yes, also with a proverb: Dogs bark, the caravan goes on. [[Mr Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Madam, was it about the Members of the opposition, about the dogs?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u293	Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Mr Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Mr Marshal, I am so sorry. What's that even supposed to mean?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the strict cases. Technical. At my place, there were teachers of such subjects as history, physics, mathematics. And the question was: Will the qualifications for teaching in secondary schools that they have also be accepted in primary schools? And I'm gonna add, as the mother of four kids who went through middle school, I'm just gonna say one thing. The I-VIII system, which reigned, taught the young man very well, was very good, while the middle school made the young man lost during puberty and came to various unpleasant situations. It's all about statistics and the media. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u295	Thank you. Mr Adam Korol, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a very short question, and I think it's already come from this room. What about a third-grade student who won't graduate in two years' time? Where's he gonna go then? Thank you so much for your answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u297	Thank you. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I just wanted to point out one thing. Member, we are not dogs. And because this is repeated, I mean the Minister says that the opposition should remain silent, the Member says that the Members' speeches are a repetition of entertainment, another Member of the PiS at the committee meeting says that the opposition should remain silent, and I wanted to say one thing, you may not know that. Because Parliament is in charge of the government's work. The Minister is therefore obliged to answer questions from Members. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Something like that, you haven't remembered for eight years.]] We have every right to ask that. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Now it is remembered.]] And I think talking about how we can just keep quiet is just an impertinence when it comes to education. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Something new, something new.]] [[Voice from the room: Craziness.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You didn't want to answer questions.]] Indeed, Minister, it will be very difficult for us to communicate for a very simple reason, because the assumptions on which you base your reform are false. I mean, we don't agree on a very basic thing, which is whether middle school has fulfilled its role or not. Therefore, everything that is the consequence of this first assumption must differ us. Well, we are presenting information here, we are presenting data that allow us to say with peace of mind: yes, middle school has worked. Indeed, the beginnings were difficult, we're talking about the situation from 14, 15 years ago, but they worked out. This shows a lot of different studies, including studies that we all refer to here. We're asking you about a study that would point to the opposite, and that's much worse. I have such a feeling that you want to give us a sentimental return to the past, to such a PRL school that we both went to, and that you do not notice at all that there is a debate going through the world about how education is supposed to work in the 21st century, that you do not notice at all that you do not notice that soft competences are needed, that cooperation is needed, cooperation ability, openness to risk. Because you say modern school, and you mean broadband Internet. Okay, but besides what else? Well, in my opinion, all the changes you are proposing will not bring any good change to the student at the very end if the teacher works with the student exactly the same as he is working with him at the moment. This is a big change, a lot of confusion, trouble, uncertainty, and at the end of the day, from the student's point of view, we're going to be in exactly the same place because we need completely different instruments. And of course, if you think otherwise with the student to work - okay, just it doesn't require that kind of change. That's all you've been talking about in the last ten minutes, you can do without eliminating middle school. So I have such a feeling that the only reason for this reform is the sentimental return to the past. I'd still like to know what the effect of these changes is. One of you said that vocational education is important. Very important, and I'm actually glad that you are continuing our work, but you really don't have to eliminate junior high schools to create two-stage professional schools, it's just a misunderstanding. And one last thing, a little personal. I don't know what kind of trouble you have with private schools. Actually, all my kids went to public elementary school, and then they really went. to a non-public school. Non-public education has been part of Polish education since 1989 and has fought for it. And let me put it this way: it raises widespread respect, including Jarosław Kaczyński, president of PiS, who could not get over it so much that Marta Kaczyńska did not get into a school that he respected, that he even described it in his memoirs. [[Voice from the Chamber: Oh, Jesus, Member.]] So that more respect. You had private school heads in your group last term, so more humility and respect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u299	Thank you, Member. Please address the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to thank you for discussing a bill that, unfortunately, I think has not been read in most cases. But that's what I understand, it's only been a few days, but I would like to remind you of public and statutory consultations for a few dozen days. From every speech I draw conclusions from you, I note, because, like Mrs Marzena Machalek, she asked for consultations, changes, openness, so of course we have to do everything we can to make sure that this law is described as well as possible. However, I must, when answering questions, of course, correct a few points. We've agreed with the marshal that, given that as many as 60 questions have been asked, I'll be able to speak a little longer. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we live in other worlds. We see people, we listen to people, we respond to the need for reality and research, the State of the Platform still lives in this parallel virtual reality, which is illustrated by six-year-olds, and above all by the freedom of parents, which you simply brutally took away, saying that a six-year-old must function only in school. [[Voice from the hall: Six-year-olds go to school all over the world.]] At the same time, I am astonished, with real emotion, to lean on the concern, especially Members of the Civic Platform and PSL, about money for local governments, about thinking about money for local governments. This government was the first. I would like to remind you of the end of last term, when the local governments carefully calculated the billions that result from the fact that new tasks have come, commissioned by the government, for which no money has gone. And I remind you of the custom of this government, ten months only: 500+ - and money to support this program, six-year-old - and a subsidy for a six-year-old. That's just, these are examples of relationships, relationships, responsibility for government money. Many Members who have asked questions - and I understand, therefore I do not disapproval - were not present in this part when I showed how we count money. I think there will be time to discuss education subsidies, what it is for a financial tool, that it is dependent on the number of children, the number of teachers and that it should not be at such a height, and that it is just enough for reform, and that it is a very flexible tool for self-government. Self-government, first of all, who's worried about his money, will be 10 years old. Now he's got nine year olds as an educational grant, and then he's got nine year olds. [[Counting, up to 10 you have to be able to count, you have to learn by 10.]] Mathematics is that you need to know the numerator and denominator. There is a child in the denominator, so please bear in mind the amount per child. [[You just have to count.]] And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. I have a request to the Vice-President of the Modern Club to discipline Members who simply tell lies. Hence my minimal emotions, because, although I say it is not true, the Member still asks the question. In fact, you could be practicing when it comes to manipulation, especially since you're already practicing it at school heads. I'm asking you, school principals are calling us, begging you not to call and scare school principals. School's free. School is free, principal, parents, teachers make decisions there. It is not true that there is no such thing as a mechanic driver. The drivers of the mechanics, associations and organisations at the meeting of the Council of Dialogue thanked me personally because the times and things that could not be negotiated for a long time in the Ministry of Education proved to be a very simple procedure. It is not true, Madam President, to note, it is not true that whenever and anyone has said that we will give up classes in which we have children with special educational needs. There's never been such a phrase, little of it, we're strengthening these classes. Few of this, in terms of perspective and professional improvement, which were also questions here, we want to take care of a teacher who is a teacher who supports a child with special needs, because I remind you that he has completely different counting hours. The teacher of the subject has a penny of 18 hours, and the one who supports the child is 40 hours old. I'm sorry. He's supposed to wash his windows at break. This is a full-time teacher. It is also not true - and here three times was my reaction to your statements - that the IPN will write a manual. I would like to ask you to return to the press conference and, above all, read the agreement. And now, ladies and gentlemen, one at a time, the questions of individual Members. It was said that the school would not teach critical thinking. But we are just beginning to teach this critical thinking. The software bases, which will be ready at the end of November, about them in a moment, and we have been working on the software bases since February, will only apply to three year olds: I, IV and VII grade. We release the software base. The modern Member also asked that question - we have already done so. There is no mechanical calculation of the implementation of the basics of the program, simply teachers implement these software bases at their own pace, and those that will be proposed at the moment are just like that - they are supposed to meet the projects and activate students, because 80% from this software base it will be something that will be marked mandatory and at the same time... [[You don't discover America, it's been a long time.]] ... 20% it will be a project, it will be a teacher's idea, because we have included innovation in the school's tasks and we do not claim that it must be a pedagogical innovation, which is registered in the curatorium. I think that my predecessors, Members, remember that 87% Primary schools are studios. [[Since sixth grade.]] Besides, these labs, like one of your messengers maliciously said, say you have to take a skeleton under your armpit... that's the kind of lab. I mean, it's not infrastructure, it's specific elements that actually, among others. In cooperation with the centre of Copernicus, you can simply move. [[But since sixth grade: physics, chemistry.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, why am I talking about this broadband Internet? At the moment, the Supreme Audit Office is actually working on the whole project, because only a dozen percent have broadband Internet, just a shame in the 21st century. And if we're talking about active boards, that's where the teaching of a foreign language is, among others. There are laboratories, there you can connect with laboratories at any point in the world and Poland. This does not mean that we will support local governments. I would like to remind you that this is why the host body is taxing citizens to look after the buildings and equipment of these buildings. And now - there's still one study, a PISA test. I think you really need to read this whole study... [[I read the whole thing.]] ...it was from 2012 - it was quickly withdrawn from it - when we are talking about solving problems. This cannot be the case - we are the only country that has done so - that the whole system of education and testing is subject to only one study. That's one thing. Secondly, I think it is worth reaching for the results of math exams - we are talking about math, aren't we? That's an excellent comparison. Because on the one hand, we focus on 15-year-olds... Attention, I inform everyone that this has no connection to the structure, the structure cannot be built under the PISA study, that is the study of a 15-year-old who doesn't care where he learns, in what system, in which system. Indeed, please note what happens in three years. If it were a permanent skill, we wouldn't have such problems with math success of 30%, because that's the threshold. This is a simple setup that shows why education is the subject of such concern for us, not setting the system into one study, a reconstructive study. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about middle school here, about how they were created. So I want to remind you how they were created. Of course, they were created almost overnight. I actually taught in high school, I remember that moment. No one cared about teachers at the time, no one thought about a zero-year. Very many general education schools, technicians, vocational schools [[♪ The bell ♪]] it's been eliminated. Right now, they've stopped the liquidation, they're waiting... The state had an extended period of time. ...to have this double yearbook, i.e. A vintage from before, a few years ago. And there's really nothing going on. I remind you of the double yearbooks in Class II and III, it didn't shake you. At the same time, as far as minority languages are concerned, absolutely nothing changes here, don't worry. One of the messengers said I touched the middle school teachers. It is exactly the opposite - I do not allow disqualifying or diversifying teachers. The primary school teacher, preschool teacher, middle school teacher, general school teacher is the same educated teacher. I accuse the program bases, the infantilism of these program bases, that they have been reduced to the number of hours. They were supposed to look completely different. It's an absolute failure of the system. Now for the first time we write the basics of the program, counting... [[Let's change the basics.]] ...and hours. At the same time, she disqualified the system, pointed to rather than demographic and fixed-term contracts. Yeah, yeah, in this yearbook, twice the majority of teachers had jobs for a year, two years. We've already got a visual. We'll be here in November. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Now they have three.]] ...very carefully show everything. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, here is the concern for children who are between the ages of 7 and 15. But it did, although the aims of the reform were completely different. This is also acknowledged by Minister Handke, although he defends junior high schools - I respect it because it is his project. Well, he was talking about the 6+6 model, which means the middle school is in high school. Unfortunately, he forgot that these three years... [[He didn't forget because he didn't.]] ...are in a kind of educational grant for municipalities. [[You didn't do it either.]] Therefore, if we wanted to achieve this, firstly, we would have bankrupted these municipalities, and secondly - the reality, so we say that we are in contact with reality and the state is rare. In most junior high schools, which are 7,000, these teams are. [[They're rare.]] Although it is true that the level of aggression is comparable when it comes to primary school and secondary school, this is exactly the challenge that you have not dealt with. We're talking about reducing schools, about being responsible for the same teachers, the same principal, getting in touch with parents at every school. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about teachers losing their jobs. I repeat once again: Yes - it is indeed rather than demographic and already more than 45 thousand. teachers have lost their jobs in recent years, but we think responsibly. Someone asked about these extra ones - I use the word "additional" - 5,000. the branches that are to appear in the system. [[Divide it in half.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about the fact that we are already finding, and we will take care of at least six jobs for the teacher. First of all, and this is also supposed to be a way of eliminating aggression, in each school there will be a pedagogue, psychologist, speech counselor. At the moment, as you are well aware, this group is ignored, where each host body determines the penny and the number of hours. Some work 18, the other 36 hours, it needs to be regulated, systematized, brought closer to the teacher's salary. We are talking about methodological advisors, about methodologies, about teachers who have huge competences, who work in integrated teams, or when they teach - I remind you that this has already been written in the bill, which you have not seen completely in recent years: it was a teacher who will support a foreign language student learning in the system so that he does not lose a year. [[The rules were introduced earlier.]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, there is concern for a double yearbook. Once again, I'm telling you, there will be plenty of seats. The counties are very happy about this, it is for them, first of all, waiting out, saving most of the high schools, because they were actually systematically liquidated. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we have a technician, a vocational school. I know that the Platform is trying not to see that in the system we have very expected by employers elements of this system. Therefore, don't worry, there will be no confusion with recruitment. And indeed the students will get, I hope, to the dream schools and I hope that this dream school will be an industry school. [[Oh, not high school.]] At the same time, as far as class VII textbooks are concerned, it is that we are... for the first time, this historical event in the Ministry of Education, we have met with publishing houses and together we have established a schedule of work, correlations with programming bases, we are really sticking to all deadlines for the time being. [[Mr. Marshal, how much longer?]] And there is also a concern that has sounded - it is particularly characteristic - from the Wroclaw newspaper. This concern comes from the Marshal's office in Lower Silesia, which is worried about 65 million zlotys not yet spent on a possible gymnasium, although 66 million spent from European money on the Internet portal - here really you can see determination. But seriously, because it was indeed spiteful, please forgive: There is absolutely no danger. First of all, this has already happened in the last perspective, the ladies from the Platform can tell you here that in Wałbrzych, the president closed down several schools in which among others. were European projects. It was enough to declare that they would be educational establishments, because, as you well know, we are not educationally connected with the European Union with any treaty or agreement - the European Union is primarily interested in the fact that the beneficiary is an educational institution. And there's this one here, too... but I'm gonna save this for last. 40,000. teachers, magic words repeated behind the president of the ZNP. I respect him very much, although I very often disagree with the President, because when I ask him how he counted it, he doesn't find the answer. I think that Members should, when such accusations are made from the Seym Chair, which are mostly directed towards teachers and are to be taken care of, verify this information and at least know the methods of calculation so as to be reliable in relation to these methods. And so are the billions to adapt. I will repeat the words about subsidies once again: the education subsidy, despite the demographic rate, will be a year higher in the next two years, i.e. 10 years will be in the subsidy, then it will be 9 years, even though there will be no third grade junior high school. And I'll remind you of reserve 0.4. And I will remind you of something that the previous government had no idea of: responsibility and constant monitoring. We will react on an ongoing basis, which is why it is so important to simply be on these reforms. Sports schools, art schools - don't worry, we took care of these structures here - they will be able to transform themselves freely. [[But how?]] There was concern about bilingual schools, hence an unfair and somewhat manipulated question concerning these exams until the seventh class of bilingual school. We speak unambiguously, and it is written that there should be mainly children who learn in a given school. If there is no willingness to learn more in a given language in a given school, then this peripherality can be changed. I would like to remind you that bilingual schools were also circumvention of peripherality and at the same time limiting the levelling of educational opportunities. I think that when Members use their own children and their children's emotions, they particularly suffer that they do so in public, but I hope that, together with you, we will explain to the children, because he already has tools, he has instruments, he has a bill above all, he will be able to work on it to support his children and his emotions. And I don't take that he was talking about emotions because he was reading. When you get emotional, you don't usually read, but maybe it's just my observation. Ladies and gentlemen! You are using the phrase "the reform of Minister Zalewski'. This is a reform of the citizens, because this is the result of research. [[100% of the citizens?]] I will provide these research, many, but also encourage you to reach for the reports of the Supreme Auditorium. This is reform. Not just the government, not just the club, not only the citizens, but also the parents and teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, all I'm worried about is that you're talking about managing fear. No, it's the country that's causing this fear. You've done it before with six-year-olds. Indeed, in Warsaw it was necessary to reflect the district after the district, because everything was done so that parents' decisions would not be released. [[There was a Warsaw Uprising.]] I thank all the other local governments for their support. [[Mr. Marshal, how much?]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, there was a question about deaf or deaf children. [[That's meanness, not answers.]] At the moment, we're talking to Minister Gowin about post-graduate studies. The Member doesn't have one. We really care about it, we have plans. We'll get to know you regularly. [[Voice from the room: Do you want an answer or not?]] There's a few more questions, I'm gonna limit myself, and I'm gonna answer two, three. [[In writing, please.]] Of course in writing, but I seem to have responded quite comprehensively. It's about the words "worse" in high school. What's that phrase? This is exactly the promotion of vocational education, the improvement of the system that was not there. A student who graduated from a professional school was actually finishing his career. And we believe he has a chance. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: But what does Minister Gowin say?]] Mr Gowin, in full cooperation with me, is discussing these solutions, and I must tell you that particularly state higher vocational schools are interested, first of all, in this degree and second, in post-secondary education, because it is so dramatic rather than demographic among students, that in a moment state higher vocational schools will simply close. One of the ladies here was talking about our negative emotions about non-public schools. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: It was me.]] Absolutely not. I remind you that I supported non-public kindergartens in Warsaw because Mrs. Gronkiewicz-Waltz had a lot of trouble just to support six-year-olds through non-public kindergartens that secured 42% The whole population because they fell for the 2010 slogan "Build a kindergarten" is so simple. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, among 2950 we have 2150 local secondary schools, the rest are non-self-government, public, non-public. Oh, no, not really. We took care of it. But today I wish you a good reading on a good bill, because every child deserves a good school and a good teacher. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Do the six-year-olds know what school they're going to?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u301	Thank you, Minister. You have come forward on the basis of a corrigendum. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: But I didn't mention anyone, Marshal. I didn't mention a name.]] Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u302	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the article, I have the right to be corrected. Minister, I have made it clear that this is a project run by the Education Development Centre. The one that's supposed to determine future professional orientations. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: But the profession is in the system.]] No, this is a partnership for vocational training. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: This is completely different, Mr Zalewska.]] No, this is the project that has forward-looking directions for the development of this vocational education. Ma'am, there's no profession out there that could be... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Because he is already in the system.]] That's where all the competitions are. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: No, he's already in the system.]] No, all the future competitions. Anyway, I have to say that if we're talking about the fact that he's in the system, it's not exactly how it's supposed to be, because it's hard to agree that a professional driver who drives trucks ends up with category B. True, with competence, but with this category B, he doesn't have a professional experience that entitles him to drive and then to have some experience. So it's not exactly like that either. There is really still a lot to do here, a lot of substantive work to ensure that this vocational training meets real needs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u303	Here you are, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact is, in the agreement you signed with the IPN, there are no records directly... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Oh, thank you, how nice.]] ...for the preparation of the program... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Why are you dragging the subject?]] ...but here I will quote the words of the President: Being present in schools is one of the most important tasks. It's right there. we carry out many projects and activities aimed at increasing the historical knowledge of the young generation. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Holy truth.]] And the Minister said: "Thanks to the signing of the agreement today, we want to strengthen our cooperation. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: So what?]] To be honest, I'm really worried about learning history with the current IPN leadership, because I wouldn't want this to happen so that our children of true history will learn on secret sets. Unfortunately, it's probably gonna happen. [[Come on.]] Minister, I am really concerned that, indeed, this youth education on the subject of history will be directed in one direction. Thank you. [[Jurek, come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u305	Thank you. Please, in the procedure of correcting Mrs Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u306	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Such a word of manipulation, passing with truth, arrogance and ignorance from this speaker from the Minister of Education's mouth I have not yet heard. [[Voice from the room: Very nice sentence.]] Minister, first of all, you're shutting down the science exam after the eighth grade. It's a fact written down in the bill, and I read it very carefully. Secondly, you care about local authorities in such a way that the 2016 subsidy is in the amount of subsidies for 2015, and you say... [[Voice from the room: Thanks to you.]] ...that during the rule of the Civic Platform local governments were treated financially very badly. I wish the local authorities such treatment during the rule of law. In 2008, local governments had subsidies of 28 billion, in 2015 it was 40 billion. Increase the government's subsidies by so many billions, and you will indeed be a government that cares about local governments. For now, you are saying: cost-free reform, local governments will do so as part of the educational subsidy, as part of the educational subsidy at the level they have. Minister, first-class math class, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u307	Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u308	Minister! First of all, I don't like talking about it like we didn't read the tests. Unlike you, I've read the PISA test itself and read the entire study related to them. Yes, I read regularly things that are related to education. You did not even want to wait until 2015, until the 2015 results, which will appear at the end of 2016. On the other hand, first of all, I ask you not to teach the modern Members, they really know what questions they want to ask. It is not the role of anyone to decide for them what question they have chosen to ask. It's a matter of basic programming. It's hard to discuss something that isn't there. The state has not yet prepared for us any software bases that we could discuss, because at the moment they arise on the knee. [[Voice from the room: Why ask?]] It's high school. It's a matter of M.A. and a question of how math goes. In fact, math is poor, and this is something that needs to be worked on. It is indeed a mistake that the junior high exam is April, so for four months this student practically has nothing to do with math as he starts high school. Mathematics teachers find that they have the impression that they deal with secondary illiteracy in students at the beginning of high school. Yeah, I agree that the last program reform in high school was a failure and reducing high school to two years turned out to be a mistake, but that had to be changed. But you turn away something that has been found to work. The only international research we have that allows us to compare what we've done with the jump, that's PISA. These are very broad studies, because they not only understand the knowledge of reading with understanding, with mathematics and with natural objects, but also with e.g. They are examining what one of your fellow Members mentioned here, the happiness of the children at school, which means that we are in 59th place at 65th place. And that's true, too. That's where we made an amazing jump, and that's where we made that jump down... [[Voice from the room: Do whatever you want.]] ...so we made the weakest ones. We have far fewer children of the weakest. We didn't get the answers to a lot of questions. I still don't know what it's gonna be like with two bachelors. I still don't know what's gonna happen to this continuation of the language and what's gonna happen to the kids. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're gonna choose another high school. I still don't know why there's no nature on the eighth grade test. We still don't really know what this reform is supposed to do. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u309	Please take the floor of the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska. [[Voice from the Chamber: Tell me how President Kaczyński voted on the introduction of junior high schools.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, very exciting and emotional speeches. There will be no nature, because there will be no nature in primary school. There will be biology, geography, physics and chemistry. At the same time, it is difficult, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss the programming bases in Parliament. That's what professionals are for. Members have no competence to approve the programming bases. [[Applause]] Let's leave the school to experts, scientists, practitioners and dorms. At the same time, when it comes to the driver's mechanics, it is precisely that this profession is in the system and it has been constructed as the regulations allow, among others. under the regulations of the Ministry of Health. All the other competences that a young man will acquire will still be in this reformed school, and will result in... This is a European project that will cover what we have already done. So don't tell me there's no mechanic driver. [[I didn't say that.]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, thank you indeed, I respect the Member, despite his fears and manipulations at the end of his speech, he has confirmed what declarations look like, what cooperation with the IPN looks like. Indeed, sir, it is only that I think the times have been wrong. There were secret sets from history. History, as I am happy to inform you, has been returning to schools since 2017. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u311	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u312	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! According to the current system of funding for education, local governments receive funds for running schools in education grants. Pre-school education is not covered by the subsidy. It is financed by local authorities from their own resources. On 1 September of this year, the school obligation for six-year-olds was abolished. According to MEN estimates, parents about 82% children of this age have decided to leave them in the preschool education system. Therefore, I have a question: Will there be a six-year-old grant - whether they are in kindergarten or in school? In relation to the planned reform of education, I would like to ask two questions: 1. When will the programme basis be known for the planned reform? 2. What will be the cost of the reform? Will local governments have to pay extra costs?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u313	Dear Prime Minister, Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Honourable ladies and gentlemen, What are the plans and intentions that your department plans to take on developing the physical fitness of students in connection with the planned liquidation of junior high schools? According to the reply received to my interpellation, the total number of students attending sports wards in junior high schools or sports junior high schools is 59 284 as at 30 September 2015. In the allocation algorithm of the educational part of the general subsidy for local government units for 2016 additional funds of PLN 134 million were included for students of sports branches and additional funds of PLN 66 million for students of sports championships. The total amount is PLN 200 million. I know that the creation of new branches, as well as schools of the sports championship, are the tasks of the local government. The amount of PLN 200 million is a great deal of resources aimed at the physical development of our young people only at the secondary level. Especially since the Ministry of Sport and Tourism only has about 130 million PLN allocated to sport development at all ages among children and young people. If these funds, PLN 200 million, due to the liquidation of junior high schools would disappear from the system, e.g. because local governments will not open new sports branches, it will be a huge damage that will significantly affect the health of our children. In view of this, what steps will the Minister take to ensure that, in an era of growing problems related to overweight and obesity of our children, these funds of PLN 200 million remain in the system and continue to help our students to develop their physical fitness properly? I ask you kindly to reply in writing. Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Navigation, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Law on the ratification of the 2014 Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour, adopted on 23 February 2006 in Geneva, approved on 11 June 2014 by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva. [[What about nature?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u314	I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 10 hours 14 min 16]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of disaster prevention, natural disasters, other serious accidents and the elimination of their consequences, signed in Bialystok on 23 April 2015 (prints Nos 770 and 828). I ask Mr Mark Wójcik to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Joint Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of disaster prevention, natural disasters, other serious accidents and the removal of their consequences, signed in Bialystok on 23 April 2015. The Republic of Belarus is the only neighbouring country with the People's Republic, with which we do not have a government agreement governing matters relating to the provision and acceptance of mutual assistance in emergency situations. Currently, the Republic is party to 10 similar agreements. These are agreements with neighbouring countries, but also agreements with other countries in the region, e.g. this is a contract with Slovenia or a contract with Hungary. The agreement with the Republic of Belarus has been negotiated for a very long time, because since 2001. And the negotiations ended in 2013. Finally, the agreement was signed on 23 April 2015 in Bialystok by the Minister for Emergency Situations of the Republic of Belarus, Mr Vladimir Waszczenko, and by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Interior of Mr Piotr Stachańczyk. I am pleased that the current government has maintained its decision to ratify this agreement. High Izbo! Currently, the official rescue services of each country can operate only on their territory, i.e. in practice to the border. The conclusion of the agreement will positively increase the level of security in both countries, in particular in border areas, by reducing the time of entry to rescue operations in the event of a disaster, natural disaster or other serious accident. The agreement will be applied in crisis situations to save life, health, property and the environment, but cooperation will also cover the exchange of information on all situations that pose a risk of dangerous events, e.g. industrial accidents in facilities located in the border area. Unfortunately, such tragic incidents in the border area happen every now and then. I think it is worth recalling in the High House the accident that took place in 2009. Then the Border Guard helicopter, which took off from Białystok, crashed and fell on the Belarusian side, 200 meters from our border. Three people died at the time. The actions of the fire department on the Belarusian side were only possible after the necessary arrangements had been made. I hope that situations which will make it necessary to use the agreement will be extremely rare, but it is very important that we do everything possible in this House to ensure that the formalities for rescue operations are as low as possible. As rapporteur, I will also mention that during the work of the committee there was a discussion with Minister Zieliński. All participants in this discussion advocated the need for cooperation between emergency services of neighbouring countries and mutual assistance. High Izbo! The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously voted for ratification of the Agreement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u316	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Of course, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the conclusion of this agreement and supports this project. This is a very important document. On this occasion it is worth to say that it is already another such event, another such fact. This shows that there is a certain standardization of relations with our eastern neighbour, Belarus. It is enough to recall the visit of Minister Waszczykowski there and the meeting with President Łukaszenka, but also a valuable document, which is a signed educational intergovernmental agreement with Belarus about teaching Polish language. This is very important. For 8 years, the previous government failed to reach an agreement that would support the teaching of Polish language in Belarusian schools. Working visits are also taking place and discussions are underway at the level of Vice-Ministers of Foreign Affairs. And now we have a document that we ratify, we sign, that is, a cooperation agreement in the field of disaster prevention, natural disasters, other major accidents and the elimination of their consequences. The agreement concerns bilateral cooperation in the field of rescue, civil protection, crisis situations, life saving, health, property and the environment. Belarus was the only country without such an agreement, and it is all the more valuable that it is now being signed. Of course, the agreement will also determine how to help one another, for example. the provision of services in the host country in which such assistance is provided or the preparation of specific documents which are required. This is very important, especially since the border with Belarus is quite long, there is a danger of fires, because there are extensive forest complexes. So all these disasters that can happen, especially natural ones, require cooperation as much as possible. In addition, border traffic, border traffic, e.g. freight, and therefore it is worth noting that there can also be ordinary traffic or road disasters. So that we welcome what is happening now in these bilateral relations. And let us hope that in the future Belarus will further strengthen cooperation with the countries of the European Union, especially with Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u318	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of disaster prevention, natural disasters, other serious accidents and the elimination of their consequences. It took 12 years to agree on the content of this agreement, which shows that it is extremely difficult and not easy for the neighbourhood. The agreement between the governments of Poland and Belarus was signed in April Ub. r. exactly 17 months ago, so it is high time that it was finally ratified and applied. It is the only neighbouring country with which such an agreement has not been concluded so far regulating all matters relating to the granting and acceptance of emergency assistance and can happen at any time. Natural, industrial or environmental disasters do not know borders, they spread very quickly. Only joint action by neighbouring countries can effectively stop them and, importantly, minimise their effects. Border areas with Belarus are areas of large forest complexes, of course with a fire risk. A fire in such a vast area is very difficult to control and, of course, it threatens an ecological disaster. In such situations, it is necessary to combine the forces and resources of the rescue services of both countries in order to take action quickly and effectively. In practice, after the entry into force of these provisions, Polish firefighters will be able to exceed on a simplified basis the Belarusian border to take part in action on the other side, and vice versa. Currently, the official services of each country can act exclusively on their territory, i.e. to the border. The Agreement sets out the principles for voluntary assistance in the event of disasters, natural disasters and other serious accidents and the scope of cooperation in developing and taking preventive measures and removing their consequences. As I said at the beginning, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u320	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u321	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of disaster prevention, natural disasters, other serious accidents and the removal of their consequences, which was signed in Bialystok on 23 April 2015. It is clear to all that various types of natural disasters, industrial accidents, environmental disasters, road accidents, etc. they do not recognise modern administrative borders and even if they occur in the territory of one country, their effects may also be felt in neighbouring territories. What is more, sometimes the fastest rescue can come not from the country in which the event occurred, but from the neighbouring country, for example through. better conditions of access or such phenomena. No one, therefore, needs to be convinced of the importance of the proper cooperation of emergency services to minimise or prevent the effects of the above mentioned events. Consequently, it is necessary and necessary to conclude a procedated agreement which lays down rules for the granting and acceptance of mutual assistance and regulates cooperation in the field of rescue and civil protection, especially as in crisis situations a very important role is played by the passage of time, which properly defined and coordinated cooperation between the various services allows to minimise, thus increasing the possibility of preventing the effects of various disasters, possibly the extent of these effects. There is no doubt, therefore, that the Republic of Poland should have such a cooperation agreement in emergency situations with all its neighbours, including the Republic of Belarus, in which case we did not have this agreement. We're trying to make up for it right now. In the view of Kukiz15, the agreement should therefore be ratified as soon as possible. Here I'm just gonna say a little bit of humor to spoil, that she hasn't been ratified for almost a year and a half since she signed, so everyone cares about her, but only today, now we lean over her. So this omission needs to be made up as soon as possible. It should also be ratified so that cooperation between the relevant services of the two countries can be initiated as soon as possible and that they can be optimised and maximised in the event of environmental disasters, natural disasters, accidents and other situations which pose a risk to the lives, health and property of citizens covered by this agreement. The agreement in question contains all the necessary annexes and sufficiently defines the scope of mutual cooperation, including the definition of the rules for the granting of aid. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the event of disasters and natural disasters. It shall specify the authorities responsible for those tasks and the rules and documents empowering rescue services to cross the state border, ensuring a rapid response, the movement of persons and the carriage of funds by both land, air and water. In addition, it sets out clearly the principles and limits of this cooperation. This guarantees the proper security of both parties, as opposed to e.g. A terrible bill, the famous 1066 act about the so-called. Helping my brother. To sum up, Kukiz15 will vote for ratification of the relevant agreement and for the rapid implementation of cooperation between the two countries in order to finally catch up on those arrears which were created in the contacts between Poland and Belarus on different levels. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u322	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u323	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position regarding the government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of disaster prevention, natural disasters, other serious accidents and the removal of their consequences, signed in Białystok on 23 April 2015. The project is included in print No 770. Ladies and gentlemen! No one needs to be convinced that this agreement, which I think is worth noting, is an important agreement with all the countries with which we are bordering, except Belarus. Natural disasters, serious environmental disasters are often of a cross-border nature, especially in Europe, where the movement of people, the movement of goods is obvious, is a daily matter. Not much, he's growing all the time. Therefore, if this is the case, it is very often a cross-border event, and it is important in this situation that the services of the countries where such a disaster has occurred be effectively interlinked, but also such an effective and rapid action, such as to reduce the effects of those events without undue delay. It is precisely improving the security of the population, improving this efficiency is possible under bilateral agreements, and one such agreement will now be ratified. Ladies and gentlemen! These factors that affect the possibility of undesirable events are now very... constantly increasing, because this is both economic development and the introduction of new technologies or even an increase in transport. Due to the intensity of traffic in road and rail transport, including related materials, e.g. The risk of man-made disasters has also increased. It is this agreement that sets out the principles of bilateral cooperation in the field of health, life, property and the environment, when the passage of time I have just mentioned plays a significant role. Since the agreement clarifies a number of issues, it is very, very good for our country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the light of the ratification requirement, with the prior consent of the Act, the Modern Posel Club will support this project and give positive recommendations for its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u324	You're welcome. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u325	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, it has been my privilege to present a bill to the High House which will regulate cooperation in such extraordinary situations as the prevention of disasters, natural disasters and other serious accidents, between our country and our neighbour, the Republic of Belarus. The very nature of the act - this is an international agreement - clearly demonstrates the importance of the issue raised in this act. The Polish People's Party, as I said in one of my speeches from this tribune, is not and will never be a negative legislator. In matters of vital, vital nature, it would be a matter of laying logs at the feet of the government to put logs directly at the feet of its own people, and we are therefore pleased to begin today to discuss some areas of cooperation between the government of our country and the government of the Republic of Belarus. The cooperation that my honourable speakers have mentioned so much from this tribune is indeed important because it regulates the mode and nature of disaster prevention, natural disasters and the removal of their consequences. Natural disasters or serious industrial accidents or environmental disasters due to their size are very often of a cross-border nature, which means that, although they were created in one country, they affect the areas of other neighbouring countries. The agreement aims to improve the security of the population, but this will only be possible if the requirement to maintain continuous contact between these countries is met. Both economic development, the introduction of new technologies and the increased use of transport increase the risk, the emergence of industrial disasters and accidents. It is often the case that in the case of large-scale events, the resources used by one country are not sufficient, and the result is that disasters can spread to the territory of another country, hence the readiness and rapid response of the relevant emergency services, including neighbouring countries, cannot be overestimated if the crisis situation requires the involvement of significant forces and resources. Similarly, as a result of an increase in traffic in road and rail transport, including the transport of dangerous goods, the risk of man-made disasters is also increased. In these situations, the passage of time plays a key role. The Republic of Belarus is the only neighbouring country with Poland, with which no government agreement has been concluded regulating matters relating to the granting and acceptance of emergency assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Presented to the High House and attached to the project [[♪ The bell ♪]] The agreement under consideration today was drawn up in two mono-sounding copies, both in Polish, together with annexes and in Belarusian, together with annexes. The agreement under investigation today does not affect the vital interests of the Republic of Poland, on the contrary, increases security, especially in the border territory with the Republic of Belarus, and the draft ratification act is not contrary to European Union law. In view of the arguments put forward, the Polish People's Party Club will vote in favour of the position contained in the report of the Joint Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs in print No. 828. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u326	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of disaster prevention, natural disasters, other serious accidents and the elimination of their consequences. The justification of this law contains a convincing and factual argument concerning cross-border cooperation in the fight against the effects of natural disasters which could lead to major industrial accidents and environmental disasters. It is therefore important to cooperate with countries, in particular emergency services, in order to minimise losses caused by natural forces of nature and to improve the security of neighbouring populations. The agreement is intended to provide mechanisms for the cooperation of the parties in the protection against natural disasters, environmental disasters and other serious accidents threatening human life and health, property or the environment. It should also be noted that the Republic of Belarus is the only neighbouring country with the Polish People's Republic, with which no government agreement has been concluded regulating matters relating to the provision and acceptance of emergency assistance. The contested law should therefore be adopted without delay. The authors of the Act rightly argue that the conclusion of the agreement will significantly reduce the time for joining the rescue services of both parties in the event of a serious accident in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus, especially in border areas, which will contribute to increasing the level of security of citizens of both parties. The effects of similar agreements with other countries confirm this. It should therefore be assumed that the negotiated mechanisms for international cooperation will contribute to reducing the material losses caused by disasters and natural disasters and will enable rapid assistance to be obtained in the event of their occurrence. This will increase the protection of the interests of citizens of the Republic of Poland as well as citizens of the Republic of Belarus. Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, after hearing the report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, support the adoption of a draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u328	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak again, I would like to invite you. I'll close the list after the second question. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u329	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of prevention of disasters, natural disasters, other serious accidents and the elimination of their consequences is necessary, as the Republic of Belarus is the only neighbouring country with the Republic of Belarus, with which no government agreement was concluded regulating the above mentioned. Things. Art. 6 agreements say that other forms of cooperation are also possible, such as improvement of the disaster detection and notification system, joint research projects, joint exercises or the preparation of specialists and specialist programmes. In view of the above, I would like to ask: how has cooperation with neighbouring countries with Poland been over recent years, with which we have signed cooperation agreements in the field of disaster prevention, natural disasters, etc.? Are these agreements implemented and respected and, in particular, have joint exercises been carried out, have joint research projects been carried out, or have there been exchanges of specialists? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u330	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! He asked about those agreements that were signed, how it worked, and I have this question: How has this cooperation been so far? Was she even there? Has there really been a situation of such threats or disasters, in which there was some cooperation between Polish and Belarusian services? How did the Minister assess such cooperation so far? No doubt signing and ratifying this agreement will make it much easier to act, but I wanted to ask what it looked like historically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u332	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u333	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It is very good that after so long we finally have an agreement with our last neighbour, a very important neighbour. Here are my questions. First of all, do we as Poland already have certain issues, topics, on the basis of certain things that have not yet been covered for various reasons, and in the first place require refinement in relations with Belarus? Secondly, in this title we have another. The term "other" is always a very broad and open concept. The question is, in this other issue, are we dealing with phytosanitary issues? Today, the Minister of Agriculture mentioned the issue of sick game. Are these issues concerning the movement of wild animals, discernment also included here somewhere? Here's another thing. Let us remember that the devil is always in the details, so in fact the implementing acts will be those acts that give the final taste to the actions. And the question is, how is it today, whether preparations for these implementing acts are already underway. How advanced are these issues? In fact, these acts will depend on what we will continue to do with this agreement. The last question is self-government. How are local governments integrated into all this on both sides of the border, because it is in local governments that there are citizens, it is in local governments that all these problems happen, there are all these problems? Are we going to move towards closer and closer border cooperation here? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u334	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This ratification is very important, as has already been said here, as part of cooperation and prevention of different situations, especially with Ukraine, where we are looking at a slightly greater threat than from other countries, and therefore it is very important to cooperate. I wanted to ask if there were differences in certain standards. Moreover, Poland as a Member State of the European Union has these standards adapted to the European Union, but it is more difficult to align these standards with the standards of the Republic of Belarus. Isn't there going to be some sort of cooperation problem? And the second thing I wanted to ask, on which I would like to develop the question that my predecessor asked about the fight against infectious animal diseases, especially ASF. Can this ratification help to eliminate or stop this threat at the border so that it does not spread within Poland but also within Ukraine? Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u336	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylwester Khrushcz, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I look at this debate here and I wipe my eyes as it is possible that it is one and a half years from the signing of the agreement to ratification. What have we been doing all this time? If we're talking about disaster prevention, we're talking about natural disasters on our very important border, where... We have talked about swine fever here, but we also have a common forest border, we have refugee penetration, many things could have happened for a year and a half. Why so much neglect? Why are we ratifying an agreement so late that we could really have signed, discussed, introduced months ago. This is a very serious negligence. I have a question for the Minister: What has affected this? Whether it is just neglect of our Polish side, our government, or it is negligence also sides of the Belarusian and that political, official situation, I do not know. I'd like to hear the answer to that question. What's more, someone is personally responsible for it. After all, this is a disaster, this is a very irresponsible thing, and we should be curious not to introduce such things in the future for the good of our MFA, for the sake of... [[You should've brought in from Bialystok.]] ...international relations with our other neighbours so that we can be a stable and responsible partner. After all, we are all serious parliamentarians and we are aware that the consequences of this negligence could have been mourned. And the image of Poland in Europe, the image of Poland in the world, what would it be like? Horrible. On the one hand, as a disaster in Chile, we send there as the first country of our firefighters, paramedics and miners [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we show that our country is a very important partner, and here we cannot handle such an important matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u338	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I just had the pleasure, because I was the chairman of the Polish-Belarus cross-border subcommittee, to participate in the signing of a much-needed agreement, because each of us knows that we need to serve each other with a cross-border help and expect it. For my part, I have a question for the Minister, because I come from, I live practically 15 km from the border with Belarus. There are voluntary fire department units, but in order to ensure safety, they would have to be equipped, especially those of the poorest municipalities bordering Belarus. I would like to remind here about the municipality of Nowy Dwór, the district of Sokolski, about the border crossing point of Kuźnica Białostocka or Kuźnica, because there is no Kuźnica Białostocka, about Szudziałów, Krynki or Grodek in the Białystok district. Down I will not go to Hajnowski or Bielski districts, because together with Belarus there was a very good project concerning the Białowieża Forest and all the municipalities were equipped with modern, good equipment. Only here, on this side... I'm not hiding that maybe Augustów district, but we know that Leipzig is equipped, and I know that the Minister was helping, and so am I. There is a question, a request to equip the volunteer fire department units in these municipalities as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u340	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u341	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will answer Mr Khrushch. The deal was signed in Bialystok. Maybe a year and a half they carried her from Bialystok to Warsaw to show the High House. I've got this idea. I'm putting it that way. On the other hand, I wanted to ask you, Minister, although perhaps it would be better to ask the rapporteur why the agreement was agreed between 2001 and 2013, i.e. 12 years. And I am interested in whether these were political obstacles, which in theory should not be decisive in security matters. What it looked like: whether it was politics or perhaps. on the part of Poland there was no interest and attempts to inspire this agreement to be signed? I also have a second question about this interaction in such a formula for today. How is it different, because I understand that there are some common, I don't know, meetings on this security, what is the difference between the relations, between the agreements with the countries with which we have such an agreement and the Republic of Belarus? What's this deal gonna do for us? Are there any aspects that cannot be implemented today, for example. are they implemented in standard procedures with other countries with which we have these agreements? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u342	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start with those last questions about the deadline, 'cause we should shed some light on that. Well, Belarus is not an easy partner, and it has not been in recent years. Therefore, there is a need to look for reasons and answers to the question of why since 2001. Relations with our countries have evolved, there have been different periods, better and worse, but Belarus is neither a country of the European Union nor a democratic state. So the conversations were conducted, but there were also long periods when they were stopped. There were also disputes concerning certain issues, e.g. the way rescue teams cross the border, the way they are supposed to do so. I will answer the question immediately about the differences between Poland and Belarus and the agreements between Poland and other countries. They are similar to their nature, but for example they differ in those issues which relate to the fact that Belarus is a country outside the European Union, so for example. It was necessary to regulate the way the border was crossed, the way the equipment was to be carried out, what documents were needed in order to cross the border, both ways. Incidentally, the dispute concerned at a certain time just as I said, among others. This, this relationship. This is why it has taken so long since April 2015. This is a question more to the previous government than to ours, because about half of this time it is still the period of the government of PO-PSL. On the other hand, we started work immediately, but, of course, the drafting of the law also required agreement, because this is a law which entitles the President of the Republic to ratify the agreement. It must therefore go through all the stages of the procedure, such as all the laws, the agreement, the consultation, especially the inter-ministerial arrangements. This law, in itself, is short, but requiring an analysis of all the circumstances, has now entered the Sejm as part of this procedure. But it's a good thing that this is over, that time is coming to an end, and I'm sure the ratification bill will be passed. On behalf of the government, I ask the High Sejm to make such a decision. We hope it will bring good results. Because people really set boundaries between states, but nature and its elements do not know these boundaries. It's not enough, they don't know the boundaries of the phenomenon that man produces, it's the actions that involve, for example, industrial accidents or environmental disasters that man causes. They do not know these borders, borders are crossed by them and you have to react quickly and as efficiently as possible on both sides of the border. This agreement will allow for such rapid response, movement of rescue teams and equipment. It regulates, in short, all these cases, all that is needed, so that there is no delay, so that there is no doubt. It seems that this is the last country with which we have no agreement, it is also a challenge for us to settle this matter quickly, since there is a will on both sides. Now, when it comes to other questions, e.g. concerning cooperation in the implementation of those agreements which are concluded. There are, of course, joint exercises conducted by our rescue services with German or Czech, Slovak, Lithuanian and Russian rescue services. This happens quite regularly, I would even say that often, because even when it comes to Germans, it is once a month, and with other countries also in a similar frequency, but not in all cases it is the same frequency. As regards joint training or joint action with Belarus, they are also being undertaken, but these activities are not formally regulated, so it will certainly be easier now. Joint EU projects on medical rescue and equipment purchase are also being implemented with Belarus - three such projects have recently been carried out, they have produced good results for the Polish and Belarusian sides. So the cooperation is, but it's worth putting it in the right turn and formalize it. As regards the question of whether other risks of the type The ASF could be combated in this mode, and the question of what other phenomena can be addressed under this agreement, let us bear in mind that the action of the other party can only take place at the request of the State which asks for this assistance. Therefore, one cannot react unilaterally, that is always upon request, at invitation and certain parties will in practice, in real action determine the circumstances which will require joint response. Perhaps it is here that the other will be filled by the practice of life simply. As regards the difference in standards, will there be problems for this reason. I think these joint exercises that we're doing with the Belarusian side show that we can work together. There's no big hindrance. Our potential is probably greater. Time will also show if there will be any problems due to the difference in standards that we have on both sides, but I think that with good will here all this can be overcome, even though we have other equipment, the side of the Belarusian to others, the other we have some internal procedures. But it's hard to predict here. Time, I repeat, will definitely verify. With regard to the equipment of voluntary fire services at the border with Belarus, Mr Baszko asked, of course, this is a long-term, long-term process. The fire department, state and volunteer, gets the equipment. Each year we buy, in cooperation with different actors, funds are derived from different sources. This equipment is not so bad, although it always requires renewal and replenishment. If the High Sejm wishes to establish a programme of modernization of uniform services for the years 2017-2020, which is prepared by our resort, these possibilities will be much greater. In addition, under the EU financial perspective which has begun, firefighters, equipment, also intended for TSOs, will be purchased. Surely the border area with Belarus, although not only, will be noticed here and this equipment will also be transferred there. The scale of these purchases next year should be so significant that other TSOs can benefit from this in such a very real dimension. The issue of integrating CSR units into the national emergency system is always open. We also need to use this tool. Support for these KSRGs from the budget, but also support for CSR units from outside the national system is, of course, in the government's field of view. This equipment will be systematically supplemented, of course by local authorities, with other funds, such as the environmental fund, or from insurance funds, which are also directed towards these objectives. It all consists of some financial compositions when buying equipment. That is a lot, but I understand, of course, the question of the Member. I'm totally signing off on this. Being where I am, I will strive to ensure that these units are equipped as best as possible. And as for the last question I have noted, what are the important differences between these agreements that concern other countries and the agreement with Belarus, I have already mentioned this in part. Once again, I would like to stress that standard solutions are similar, and these differences relate precisely to what is the specificity of our countries - Poland as an EU country, as a country belonging to the European Union and Belarus, which does not belong to the European Union. This is particularly the issue of the documents that are needed when crossing the border and the documents that are needed when transporting equipment. But the regulations in this agreement are rational. I judge them very well. It seems that if the agreement enters into force, it will not be any particular problem, although it will again show time and practice, but experience with other countries indicates that this should be sufficient. The question of will, the will of the parties. There's a will to cooperate on our part. We also hope that there is and will be a will on the part of the Belarusian State if it decides to sign this agreement with us. Therefore, we are happy to give this opportunity of a better, faster response. I request once again to the High House that this bill be passed, which will give the President the authority to ratify it. I would like to draw your attention - because this may also be an important aspect, and this was not the case - that the intergovernmental agreement ratified in such a way, if there were any discrepancies between the other legislation and the regulations of the agreement, gives priority to precisely these regulations contained in the agreement. This is very important. And that's why it's so high, so to speak, there's a procedure for ratifying this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u344	Thank you, Minister. And please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Mark Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Gonciusz asked about his previous cooperation with neighbouring countries. Such cooperation takes place almost every day when road accidents have to be saved, road accidents have to be eliminated. Such cooperation between the various services on our side of the border and the neighbouring countries we have. Such joint actions are carried out almost daily in those countries with which we have so far signed such agreements. On the other hand, I would like to point out that sometimes there is a need for much more assistance. This was the case in Poland when we fought the floods in 2010. Then, indeed, other neighbouring countries helped us, helped us with the Polish State Fire Service, so that we could control the flood and also eliminate the effects of the flood. Moreover, I would like to point out that the State Fire Department has also participated in many different kinds of actions in other countries so far. I think that this kind of cooperation is very valuable, because it has a dimension, first of all, such a humanitarian one. Indeed, we are helping, helping people who are harmed in neighbouring countries, but we also sometimes bring help even on other continents. On the other hand, this is also an opportunity to gain various kinds of experiences. So it is worth to participate in these joint ventures when something bad is happening in the world and Polish firefighters are needed. There were also questions about forms of cooperation here. I would like to point out that this agreement provides for relatively broad forms of cooperation, because if you look at the article. 6, that's, among other things. improving the detection and notification system for disasters, natural disasters and other serious accidents, or planning, development and implementation of research projects. Therefore, I think that this agreement, although Belarus is a difficult partner for us, nevertheless opens a very wide range of cooperation in this area to ensure the common security of citizens, both on the one hand and on the other side of the border. Thank you very much. I would also like to thank you for this consistent acceptance of the ratification of this agreement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u346	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 08 hours 15 min 16]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Law on the ratification of the 2014 Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour, adopted on 23 February 2006 in Geneva, approved on 11 June 2014 by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation (Prints Nos 805 and 844). I ask Mr Janusz Sniadek to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Joint Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs a report on the meeting on the Government's draft Law on the ratification of the 2014 Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour, adopted on 23 February 2006 in Geneva, approved on 11 June 2014 by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva. The joint committees, following their first reading and the examination of this draft law at their meeting on 21 September 2016, request the High Sejm to approve the draft law from print No 805 without amendments. Let me just add that ratifying this convention and implementing it into national law will mean better regulation of the situation that may occur if a seafarer is abandoned. I would just like to add that this request to the Sejm was adopted unanimously, with no votes against and abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u348	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, Law and Justice have the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I am pleased to present my position on the Government's draft law on ratification of the 2014 amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention. The amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention 2006 were adopted on 11 April 2014 by the International Labour Organisation's Special Tripartite Committee and subsequently approved by the International Labour Conference on 11 June 2014. They were notified jointly by representatives of seafarers and shipowners. Representatives were involved in the work of the Special Tripartite Committee, among others. International Shipping Chamber, clubs, maritime insurers with more than 90% insurance World fleet, BIMCO - Baltic and International Maritime Council, i.e. Baltic and International Maritime Council, and ITF trade unions. Polish trade unions and the Polish Shipowners' Union were also in favour of the amendments. They therefore have the support of all sides of the social dialogue. Amendments amend Regulation 2.5: Reparation and Regulation 4.2: The liability of shipowners with regard to MLC, and its annexes, make it compulsory for shipowners to have insurance or other financial security for seafarers' claims in the event of their abandonment by the shipowners and in the event of death or long-term disability resulting from an accident at work or occupational disease. In addition, the 2014 amendments introduce an obligation for seafarers to carry on board documents showing that the ship owner has such financial security and specify the requirements for those documents. In accordance with the procedure laid down in MLC, the amendments will enter into force on 18 January 2017. The Maritime Labour Convention of 2006 entered into force on 20 August 2013. The Parties to the Convention are 74 States representing a total of 91% world tonnage. The Convention was implemented into Polish law only in the Law of 5 August 2015 on Maritime Labour. This law entered into force in November 2015, which means that Polish seafarers were deprived of the protection provided for in the Convention for more than 2 years. Moreover, the 2015 Maritime Labour Act was prepared in violation of the principles of social dialogue, without listening to the demands of the parties to this dialogue, both employers and workers. As a result, the Maritime Labour Act adopted in 2015 needs to be amended. For this reason, a working group was established at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping for the revision of the Maritime Labour Act. It is also important to emphasise the adoption by the Government of Law and Justice of the Act of 24 August 2006 on tonnage tax. For 8 years of government, the Civic Platform has not taken steps to create the conditions for registering ships in Poland. For this reason, only a few vessels will be affected by the subjective amendments, which are currently raising the white and red flag. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, one of the first steps of the PiS government was the adoption of the Act of 6 July 2016 on the activation of the shipbuilding industry and complementary industries prepared by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. This law will allow the reactivation of the Polish shipbuilding industry and the construction of ships in Poland, which will then raise the Polish flag. The guidelines provide for the application of aid measures to shipping companies, in particular as regards taxes and labour costs. While the tax demands provided for in the Guidelines are met by the said tonnage tax law, the obstacle to registering ships under the Polish flag remains high compared to global competition, the employment costs of seafarers, mainly in the field of social security. The work group with employees' representatives, employers and competent ministries is currently working on these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u350	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u351	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Maritime Labour Convention is undeniably the first maritime labour code, which includes more than 1 million seafarers working worldwide, a large number of shipowners, as well as other entities that are related to the maritime industry around the world. The maritime transport sector is the first to require action by international organisations to regulate existing international legal standards. These regulations have been introduced and have affected the functioning of the so-called wide-ranging industry. Shipping, and they've created a global maritime code. The implementation of the provisions of the Convention ensured not only the opportunity for all seafarers to have fair and harmonised employment conditions, but also a normative basis for working in line with safety standards. The provisions of the Convention shall apply to international maritime transport widely understood, regulate and cover essential issues relating to mutual rights and obligations between shipowners, intermediaries and seafarers. The regulations of the Maritime Labour Convention have an impact on workers' relations through the numerous guarantees contained therein. The Convention guarantees adequate living conditions for seafarers on board and provides wide-ranging medical and social protection measures or forms of legal protection. It should be noted that Poland ratified the Maritime Labour Convention on 3 May 2012 and that the Convention entered into force on 20 August 2013. It is worth recalling that more than 70 States are parties to the Convention, which represent more than 90% in total. the global tonnage of the fleet. It should also be noted that the first amendment contained in this proposal relates to the repatriation of seafarers and provides that a State party to the Convention will provide ships flying its flag with a rapid and effective financial security system to assist seafarers in the event of their abandonment. The security scheme indicated in the Convention may take the form of a social security or insurance scheme or a national fund or be established in another similar form. The second amendment concerning the so-called: Regulation 4.2 lays down minimum requirements for national and financial security legislation to cover the payment of any contractual claims which it covers and which arise during its validity. In view of the validity of these amendments, which guarantee the financial security and support of seafarers during work when repatriating, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of this bill. At the same time, we expect the government to implement the necessary provisions [[♪ The bell ♪]] without undue delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u352	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushcz, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the draft law on ratification of the 2014 amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention. We welcome the fact that there have been positive changes in maritime labour law in recent years. Polish legislation is still poor in this respect and does not exhaust the subject. I am all the more pleased that the Government wishes to ratify the 2014 amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention. Unfortunately, the current laws in Poland do not provide for benefits in this respect, which include amendments. This necessitates changes in Polish law, and in particular in the Maritime Labour Act. I believe that the ratification of amendments and the need to amend national legislation will be the beginning of work on legislative changes that will properly safeguard the interests of maritime workers. I mean both sailors and cabin crews, oil platform workers and fishermen. I hope that these changes will be the subject of a comprehensive discussion at the meeting of the Maritime Affairs Committee. I also remember myself that since 2005, as well as earlier, a heated debate about the port cities of Gdynia, Szczecin, Gdańsk has been conducted, but in fact we are still standing still, a few of our ships are still under foreign flags, just on drilling platforms, we may not have many, but they are, as well as our fishermen. These cases are still unsolved. So we're glad we even started this discussion. I hope - here too I see that there is agreement between clubs - that we will carry out this debate in a substantive way in committee, and then in subsequent readings, and we will bring this matter to a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u354	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Posel Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u355	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This Convention is a legal act bringing together the comprehensive standards contained in almost all of the more than 60 existing conventions and recommendations of the International Labour Organisation for Maritime Labour adopted by 2006. It is therefore referred to as consolidated. In view of the comprehensive nature of the regulation, the Convention has been recognised as the fourth pillar of the international regime governing maritime transport. The Convention sets out the requirements for seafarers to be able to work on board ships, the rules for the provision of placements, working and living conditions on board ships, health and social protection requirements, and includes provisions to ensure effective enforcement of the Convention. The Convention has so far ratified 79 countries representing 91% world tonnage. The amendments to the Convention introduced on 11 June 2014 concern two issues: ensuring financial security for abandoned seafarers and ensuring financial security for seafarers' claims relating to accident compensation, death, long-term disability as a result of damage or sickness to work on board the ship. A seafarer shall be deemed to have been abandoned if the ship owner fails to cover the costs of repatriation, leaves the seafarer without means of subsistence, unilaterally fails to fulfil his duties towards the seafarer, and in particular does not pay him a salary for at least 2 months. The amendments made to the Convention provide that Member States shall require shipowners to have a financial security to cover the abovementioned. claims in the form of private insurance or insurance under the social security scheme or a national fund or other equivalent security. In addition, the ship owner will have to document the possession of the above mentioned. security with a certificate in accordance with the model introduced by the amendment to the Convention. As a consequence, the ship owner is to obtain a financial security in the event that the ship owner fails to comply with the relevant obligation at the request of the seafarer, he shall immediately obtain the benefit available to him. At this point, it is worth noting that the financial security for late wages is limited to the amount available for 4 months. Shipowners do not currently have insurance that would cover the above obligations. Second line. The financial security is to be in the same form as in the case of a guarantee in the event of abandonment of a seafarer. Also in this case, it is envisaged that the vessel owner must have on board a document proving that he has obtained a security issued in accordance with a specified standard. The security system is to meet the following requirements: the payment of claims in full and without delay, in the event of difficulties in determining the amount of full compensation is to take place [[♪ The bell ♪]] partial payment - advance. A seafarer or a member of his immediate family or another person appointed by a seafarer may make a claim. The receipt of the benefit by the seafarer shall be confirmed by a statement the model of which forms an annex to the Convention. Most shipowners have adequate insurance in the scope of this obligation. As Poland did not object to the amendments to the Convention until 18 July 2016, they will enter into force in respect of Poland on 18 January 2017. Modern will vote in favour of this law. Madam President, of course this law has nothing to do with the activation of the shipbuilding industry, but it is obvious. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u356	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, here in the High House, we are starting work on the Government's bill on ratification of the amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention, adopted in 2006. This is an important moment, because in our legislation, we will fill this area, which will safeguard the interests and work of our seafarers properly, in a worthy manner. It is especially important because many of them, and practically all of them, sail on ships of Polish shipping registered under foreign flags. I think that the content of the records themselves will function properly and will safeguard especially in situations that we would not like to see sailors and their families do not want to happen - in emergency situations, in situations of health loss or job loss. Hence, the club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of this draft law without amendments, as recommended by the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u358	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan from the Circle of the Polish Free and Solidarni presented the position of the circle in writing. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the second question. Time for the question - two minutes. Mr Sylwester Khrushcz, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It seems to me that my question came from this debate itself, from the positions of clubs and circles that were now presented. I think if there's a consensus here and we're saying that we agree that we need to secure seafarers at sea, that's a point. A and we have to say B, we have to take the second step, and this is bringing Polish flags to Poland, on our ships, so that our ship owners make it worthwhile to carry out this process. Therefore, I have a question for government representatives: What is the government doing so that the ships of our Polish ship owners can return under the white and red flag? Today most of our fleet sails under the so-called. a convenient flag, i.e. under the flags of such countries as Cyprus, Panama, Malta and Liberia. Of course, this is due to the fact that taxes are actually not paid in these countries and that seafarers' insurance is minimal, they are very low. This process also causes a significant reduction in our budget, and experts know that it also gives rise to many pathologies within our Polish budgets in Cyprus, Malta and other countries. I repeat the question: What does the government do to get our ships back under the white and red flag, so that on our quays, in Szczecin, Gdynia, Gdansk, but also in other ports of Europe or the world, in Hamburg, New York or Sydney, our ships, PZM's or other good ship owners, are our business cards? Hence the question: Is the government working on this subject? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How are these works going? This is very important for this industry. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u360	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Appeal, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask, because indeed the project and all this will serve Poland and Polish shipowners, sailors, I have no doubt here that additional measures will be taken to restore our ships to the Polish flag and how to make sure that further ships, further ships, already with the Polish flag, remain long enough so that new ships do not look for the cheapest port, but can, for example, search for the cheapest port. find this cheap port or cheap flag in Poland. Whether the Ministry wants to do something about it, the more that, I also support, the whole extended idea of rebuilding inland waterway transport will certainly also serve the creation of large, new units, not only those floating in rivers, but also those who can swim further. Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u362	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo I have a question which slightly refers to this point that we have just discussed, i.e. the agreement between Poland and Belarus on cross-border assistance of services in the event of various types of disasters and accidents. The point is that in that case, almost a year and a half has passed since the agreement was signed. In this case, the period during which the amendments were adopted, until we ratify them at the moment, is very similar and even slightly longer. My question may not be to the ruling party today, maybe I should ask it to the party that ruled until recently, but somewhere there is a problem in this ratification procedure. In very important matters, as in this case, the protection of our seafarers and their vital interests, the Polish state has been proceding for a very long time, it is a long time to ratify such things, which we should ratify in an absolutely fast and immediate manner. We've got far too long to do this. I would like to ask whether this is due to certain procedural, technical problems, whether it is simply negligence at the government level, which pushes this matter down as invalid, which is to say that somewhere these issues of Polish citizens, of some professions, are less taken into account by different types of circles at a given time. This is a very important question for me: Why such long deadlines since the signing of contracts, since the adoption of amendments to the ratification of these points by the Polish party? After all, ratification is only a procedure which we in Poland should carry out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u364	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u365	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you two questions. The first concerns the request for details of the implementation of the amendments relating to this Convention in order to be included in the Maritime Labour Act. How will this work be carried out and how quickly will it be implemented? That's the first one. The second question concerns the work of seafarers in the context of the ability to work on ships that sail under the Polish flag. During the election campaign Law and Justice went... You went to the elections with the slogan of the return of the Polish flag to Polish ships. Today we learn from newspapers, among others. of the Minister's opinion, which clearly indicates that returning to the Polish flag is very difficult, the question whether it is possible at all. It also points out that it would cost about 70% to hire seafarers If I remember correctly. At the same time, we know that in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping a team was established to develop a legal framework or recommendations for what steps to take so that eventually the Polish flag could hang on ships. So I would like to ask for detailed information about the activities of this team - what is its main purpose, what exactly this team is doing, who exactly is part of it, what challenges it poses, and eventually when we see the first results of the work of this team, which was set up in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u366	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u367	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Like Mr Carrot, I would like to know, because after examining the amendments that we are now ratifying... These amendments will in principle not change the situation, therefore they will not contribute to the fact that Polish ships will return to the Polish flag. We want you to actually... If we have a fleet, if the proud announcements about rebuilding the shipbuilding industry are still valid, then we would like to know what government has in mind about these ships returning to the Polish flag. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u368	Thank you. Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u369	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Taking advantage of the opportunity that you are Minister Brzezicki in the Chamber, I would like to ask, Minister, if your resort intends to address a comprehensive, systemic solution regarding the revision of the legislation on the insurance of seafarers, because, to my knowledge, it is the cost of insurance and such a very unfortunate model, which in fact does not function in Poland, make these ships under the Polish flag do not sail. And I wanted to ask if there was such an idea in the Ministry to carry out a deep reform here and so that these sailors could function under Polish flags. And my second question is to the Chairman of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation: Where is this law that we are currently debating about, that it can activate the shipbuilding industry? If you would be kind enough to point out this passage to me... [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: There is no legal option. You don't ask me questions.]] ...I'd really appreciate it. I'd really like an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u370	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the secretary... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: I have another question, Mr Marshal.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u371	Thank you, Marshal. I have a question for the Minister: When and why Polish ships have gone under the foreign flag they are under, and when and in what perspective we will also be able to talk about the general tax rules as regards the functioning of Polish seafarers, i.e. 35,000. Sailors, in the global market? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u372	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will briefly address the questions by thanking all the clubs for supporting the bill on ratification of the amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention. Minister Brzezicki will complete my statement. Let me remind you that we are talking about amendments to the ILO Convention, which are intended to improve the situation of seafarers who have not used such protective opportunities to this day, whether in cases where they have not been able to return or in cases of accidents. As regards these questions, which concern issues related to the Polish flag, very important, you will tell Minister Brzezicki about this. Let me just say that there is a trialogue for shipping, a working group involving shipowners, social partners, trade unions, individual ministries to settle these issues. I will also remind you that one of the reasons for the low-cost flag is that ships register in countries where operating costs are significantly lower. As regards the question of the length of time to which the decision was pending, in this case the question also depended on the European Commission, which has delayed its response to the regulation in this regard. This is also why this period has extended. As we discussed at the committee meeting, Minister Brzezicki also spoke about this, in the Ministry of Maritime and Water Management, there is a team set up to develop quick solutions for the implementation of these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u374	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of Mr. Paweł Brzezicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer the questions you have asked, but the questions are not in connection with this law, because I would like to say that what we are talking about today is a requirement - from 18 January no ship, regardless of its flag, and those involved in trade, in international shipping, will be allowed to operate if workers on this ship or seafarers are not covered by this Convention. That's what we're talking about. Regardless of the flag that this vessel is flying, the States which allow it to lift this flag must sign this Convention. Today it has been signed by dozens of countries that represent more than 90% of the tonnage. As far as I'm concerned, that's 10%. the tonnage, of those States which have not signed this Convention, is exclusively concerned with cabotage shipping, i.e. within those States. On other issues, perhaps I will start with the last questions raised by Mrs Arcisewska-Mielewczyk. Well, the last Polish flags on ships were replaced with flags convenient before Poland entered the European Union. Why? Because the government at that time, probably the government of the SLD, did not allow shipping, as well as the shipbuilding industry, to obtain the so-called. a transitional period to adapt to European Union legislation, to the fiscal system, i.e. VAT, CIT, PIT, etc., i.e. the whole area of regulation which has partially covered us before, but which have included and extended to an increasing extent and are changing to this day. Therefore, Polish shipowners decided - with regret, regret and regret - to transfer ships in capital fetches or in-kind fetches to companies in which these companies are up to now 100% tonnage owners or ships which at the moment have acquired a different flag are under different legislation. Please note, however, that in the case of most companies or the majority of ships, 100% was maintained. employment of Polish seafarers, which was an important element, and maintained capital, capital ownership, ownership of ships in the hands of Polish companies, and in particular Polish state enterprises. It's a quid pro quo. As regards the Polish flag or the possibility of returning ships to the Polish flag, ladies and gentlemen, the possibility of returning ships which are already under foreign flag and were built as a result of obtaining loans, investment loans mainly from foreign banks, on the law of the flag under which the ship was built, because the ship is being built under the flag from the moment the keel is located, there is virtually no such possibility when it comes to ships which already sails. On the other hand, of course, it is still possible for ships that do not have a mortgage and newly built ships that can be built under the Polish flag. To be clear, I will add that the Polish flag and the Polish flag are a very significant symbol. In the case of a ship owner or company, a company which owns ships, a flag shall be linked to three areas consisting of: technical permits adopted in the legislation of the country concerned, taxation of the trader with income tax in the country concerned and social matters and taxation of seafarers with personal taxes. These are the three areas that bind to the flag. If these three areas overlap in a favourable manner, it shall enable the ship owner to locate the ship in a manner which does not adversely affect it financially under such a flag. As far as the items I mentioned are concerned, so-called. technical supervision, i.e. the admission of ships to the Polish flag, the Polish legislation is not particularly demanding in this respect and ship owners do not have and should not have any trouble placing such a ship in Polish registers. The issue of CIT, i.e. corporation tax on shipowners. Polish legislation allows shipowners to apply a flat-rate tax on tonnage in exchange for income tax. This solution is also beneficial. On the other hand, the whole sphere is so-called. The social and social security spheres that you have been talking about, as well as the sphere of personal tax, are the most sensitive because, as of today, in the current legislation, the transfer of employees of shipowners to the Polish flag will immediately result in them being confiscated to the extent that they are unable to take up work on board the ship, because it will not be profitable for them, so they will go to other shipowners. How is this dealt with in other countries? For example, Germany proudly raises the German flag on some ships. Some seafarers are excluded from the action of the tax on natural persons and social security, i.e. the competent Ministry, such as our Ministry, covers the costs of these taxes and insurance for seafarers on German ships flying the German flag. However, ladies and gentlemen, the German law, which regulates what I am talking about now, allows two seafarers on a ship which is financed in this way - two. If we speak e.g. There may be two such sailors. It is a purely financial issue and we are trying to resolve it in such a way as to enable seafarers to achieve revenues comparable to that of other legislations, and to enable them to obtain similar revenues by shipowners or to make these revenues non-physical. We are discussing this within the framework of the team in which they are represented and employers, and employees by trade unions, but also administration. The Member asked for detailed information. I ask you to put this in writing. Of course, we will give this information about what is going on there, what we are talking about, where we are and where we are going. I think that maybe not directly, but indirectly I answered all your questions. [[Applause]] [[And I'll put it in writing.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u376	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Janusz Sniadek. The Member does not want to speak. Okay, I'll close the discussion then.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u377	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle regarding the Government's draft Law on the ratification of the 2014 Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention, adopted on 23 February 2006 in Geneva, approved on 11 June 2014 by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva. The amendments proposed by the government are necessary to avoid the situation in which these amendments will be implemented without Poland's wish to do so. Today there are no contractual obligations of the ship owner towards seafarers, among others. on repatriation or late remuneration. The amendment will make Polish citizens working at sea subject to an effective financial security system in case they are abandoned. Among other things, in accordance with this regulation, the State will secure the payment of outstanding financial obligations due to the seaman from the ship owner. The amendments introduced fit into the maritime policy of the Polish government. They harmonise the working and living standards of seafarers on ships. It is important that the changes have been very widely consulted and welcomed. A positive attitude towards the amendment of the law was also expressed by the Sejm committees. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u378	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 57 hours 16 min 05]] Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm reopening the session. I ask you to take your seats so that we can begin the next item of today's sitting after the break. We proceed with the consideration of items 16 and 17 of the agenda: 16. First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion and the Law of 6 June 1997 (Print No 784). 17. First reading of the civil draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood (Print No. 830). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Ms Joanna Banasiuk, to present the justification for the bill in print No 784. You're welcome. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u379	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I stand here on behalf of nearly half a million citizens of the Republic of Poland who supported the project of the citizens' initiative. Another 150,000. voters asked the state, Polish parliamentarians, with an appeal for full protection of children also at the prenatal stage of development. In a short time over 600,000. your constituents expressed the will to stand up for the weakest Poles - children and women who lose their lives or suffer mentally because of abortion. Abortion is the slaughter of innocent children, it's the hell of women and the moral disgrace of men. The Polish nation was first appointed by Nazi criminals, and the communist regime imposed it on a massive scale. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few months ago, in the hospital of the Holy Family in Warsaw, suffering in solitude, little Victor was born alive during an abortion, left without medical assistance, deprived of fundamental rights. They didn't even try to soothe his pain while he was wailing in agony for half an hour. All of Poland showed compassion for this little child with Down syndrome, violence extracted from his mother's body so that it would die in agony. Meanwhile, the patient's spokesperson, Ms Krystyna Kozłowska, stated that there was no violation of the law. At the same time, she referred to the opinions of national consultants. If the law allows hospital staff to observe the child's torture, waiting for him to die instead of helping him, it is inhuman law, it is real legal lawlessness. [[Applause]] Such legal lawlessness is often referred to as a compromise. This compromise kills. Introduced 20 years ago so-called. abortion exceptions are increasingly interpreted. 15 years ago, an abortion killed only over 100 children a year. Today, without changing the law on abortion, it is even ten times more. According to a British journal on gynaecology and obstetrics, one in 10 children who have had an abortion die just like a little Victor - suffering in abandonment. The other children aren't even allowed to cry. Their lives are strangled in their mother's womb. Currently, more than 900 abortions per year are carried out on children suspected, among others. about the disability caused by Down syndrome, Turner or Edwards. However, healthy children who have been conceived in circumstances which justify suspicion of committing a criminal offence are also killed. The hope for all of these children is the "Stop Abortion" project, which introduces full protection for each child both before and after birth. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When the Communists implemented Soviet abortion solutions in Poland in 1956, they were promoted by prosecutor Helena Wolińska, a participant in judicial murders on the heroes of the underground independence, such as Gen. August Fielddorf. She was pleased to write about the rejection of the legal protection of the life of the fetus, which had been carried out, guaranteeing legal impunity for abortion. Unfortunately, also in free Poland, the views of prosecutor Wolińska find zealous promoters. The fight against communist slavery was also a fight for legal protection of children from birth, which the nation promised its queen in Jasna Góra vows. The first draft law on the protection of life was submitted in 1989. In 1993, an important step was taken on the road to the full protection of children's lives from birth, and today we can finally finish this work by fulfilling what our mothers and our fathers promised on Jasna Góra. We can finally reject Stalin's legacy of legal lawlessness. Today we can give every child, including the sick child, a chance to be safely born under traumatic circumstances. All we have to do is have the courage to change. All we have to do is choose our lives. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Defending children at the earliest stage of their development is also the implementation of the fundamental rights of the child, the rights arising both from our constitution and from the standards of international law. The 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child, following the UN Declaration on the Rights of the Child, makes it clear that the child requires special care and care, including adequate legal protection both from and after birth, due to his or her physical and mental immaturity. The Polish Constitution guarantees every legal protection of life and requires equal treatment of all people. In 1997, the Constitutional Tribunal concluded beyond any doubt that human life has become a constitutionally protected value since its inception, including in the prenatal phase. Therefore, the 'Stop abortion' initiative removes unconstitutional grounds for killing innocent children at an early stage of their development. Out of the 196 existing countries, 122 of them protect the lives of unborn children better than Poland. Even in Europe, such countries as Ireland, Northern Ireland or Malta guarantee children a higher standard of protection than Poland. Today we have a chance to take the lead in countries that set new higher human rights standards and effectively oppose the exclusion of the weakest. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The citizens' initiative is designed to protect both children and women. At a time when the death penalty is generally waived even for the most serious crimes, millions of innocent children in the world are killed in the majesty of the law. The United Nations indicates that there are already 200 million girls in the global population who have fallen victim to abortion based on sex or child murder. To promote abortion means above all else... [[What does this have to do with Poland?]] ...the death of girls, not only in Asia or Africa, but also in Europe and the United States. Abortion entails discrimination and the death of women, including the death of mothers. This is clearly shown by the World Bank and the World Health Organisation. In Poland, since the availability of abortion was reduced in 1993, the maternal mortality rate has dropped five times. World Health Organization data clearly show that, as a result, maternal mortality rates are twice as low as in Germany, three times lower than in England and nearly five times lower than in the United States. In the widespread abortion of England, the maternal mortality rate has been twice as high in the last decade as in the total protection of Ireland's life. In those states of Mexico, where children's lives are protected from birth, women's mortality rates are 23%. lower than in the other states. Abortion is hell not only for children but also for women, and therefore it must be put to an end. Most Poles are fully aware of this. Among those asked about the content of the initiative in the IBRIS study in May, more than 58% the respondents support the request for a total ban on abortion, while preserving the possibility of saving a potentially endangered mother's life. Among those aged 18 to 24, this solution is supported by nearly 80% of Poles. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the broad support for equalising the legal protection of children from birth with the protection they have at birth, we have prepared a bill which abolishes the existing discrimination due to the degree of development, disability, birth and birth conditions and guarantees the care of mothers. Firstly, in order to restore the full protection of the lives of the conceived children, the project assumes that situations which so far allowed the majesty of the bill to carry out the abortion killing of the child will become the basis for the family to obtain material assistance and care from the state. Secondly, we have provided the full opportunity to save the mother's life. The project provides that all medical activities that save the life of the mother are acceptable even if they can lead to the death of the child. When developments inevitably lead to the death of a mother or a child, it is for the mother to choose from the available medical procedures. Thirdly, the project confirms that a child who is still receiving medical care before birth has the right of the patient, including the right of parents to information on his behalf. Therefore, the project provides a unique opportunity for the development of prenatal diagnostics. So far, the law has given access to prenatal tests mainly to determine the grounds for the abortion of the child. We want these tests to regain their diagnostic and therapeutic character. We want them to be widely available. Fourthly, the project restores the legal protection of the life of the conceived child in place of the protection of the impersonal state of pregnancy. Thus, any attempt on the life of the conceived child, like any attempt on human life at a later stage of development, should entail a criminal response from the state. Therefore, the proposal, like legislation in the vast majority of countries in the world, introduces criminal liability for all abortion perpetrators. The full responsibility should be borne by those who have helped to take the child's life or have urged him to do so, including the father of the child who effectively induces the mother to have an abortion or provides abortion. The child's mother has been protected in the project against any unjustified criminal responsibility, she is relieved of all responsibility for unintentionally killing her child. The project doesn't change the situation of the mother who miscarried. Moreover, even if the mother deliberately deprives her conceived child of life, because of the multifaceted nature of the situation, the project always allows the court to waive the penalty and thus ensure the full legal protection of the child's life is reconciled with the possibility of not punishing a woman. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we regain the Polish state. [[From who?]] Together, we restore the country's dignity, which has been bullied for so long. It is high time for action in the area of life protection as well. Just reject the Stalinist heritage of Helena Wolińska and build Poland on respect for man, as we have always been taught by John Paul II, the greatest promoter of human dignity and human rights. And just as Poland has the chance to lead the countries setting new, higher standards of human rights, so today you have the chance to choose life, choose life for the benefit of women and children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u380	I would like to thank the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. I would like to ask the representative of the Committee of the Legislative Initiative, Mrs Barbara Nowacka, to present the justification for the bill in print No. 830. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civil Committee of the Legislative Initiative, let's save women, I have the honour to present to the High House a draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood. Today will show us what country we will live in. In fact, there are only three possibilities. The first, the most frightening one, in which the Sejm will adopt a project introducing barbaric, inhuman solutions applied in parts of Latin American countries. If that happens, the Polish people will go to prison because they want to decide about their own life and their own body. The project of right-wing fanatics supported by some church hierarchs and some, unfortunately, Members, is a huge threat to civil liberties. We don't want that kind of Poland. We don't want women's hell. [[Oh, my God.]] The second possibility is the present state, i.e. the rotten compromise between the Catholic Church and a part of the politicians of the right. It's also an extremely bad solution that doesn't in any way agree with reality. The result of this compromise is a huge abortion underground, resulting in an illegal interruption of more than 100,000 a year. pregnancy, very often in conditions threatening the life and health of a woman. We don't want that kind of compromise either. However, there is a third possibility, i.e. the introduction of solutions that operate in almost all European Union countries, which give women the right to decide their fate, life and health, which guarantee full care during pregnancy, which introduce sexual education into schools and which give them full access to modern contraception. That's our solution. High Izbo! Today will also decide whether, as citizens, we will live in a country where the health and life of women will be decided by right-wing extremists and fanatics and church hierarchs, but whether we want democratic Poland, in which we all feel worthy and safe and our every choice is respected. We don't have our permission for a country where a miscarriage woman goes to prison. There's no permission to do that. Poland cannot be one of the countries in the world where women are put in prison because they want to decide about their own lives. The penalty for abortion according to the civil project you've heard of is up to five years old. Five years in prison for an innocent woman when punishment for a pervert and a rapist can only be six months. Or is Guatemala, El Salvador, a model for Poland, where women can go to prison for several decades? How far can you go? The result of an abortion underground built by the so-called. There are tens of thousands of illegal abortions. There's over 100,000 a year. such cases. This means, if the rules are tightened up, that by the end of this term of office of the Sejm 300 000. The Pole could go to jail. Or 300,000. Women, rape victims, incest victims, victims of poverty and exclusion, are they supposed to be locked up in prison with murderers, bandits, thieves? [[Where's the data coming from?]] Is this the kind of Poland you want? Is this the purpose of the Polish state? Let's save women's lives has a completely different purpose. We want Poland to be just normal. We want the Polish people to feel safe, including safe in terms of their reproductive rights, and to be able to have children happily and decently. High Izbo! I must say something that, I hope, is obvious to you Members and to you... [[The other way around. Your messengers and your fellow Members.]] ...as obvious to me: the state is the common good and the responsibility of all citizens. It is the citizens, either through Members or directly, using the possibility of legislative initiative, that are the law which they commit to comply with. A good law is understandable, coherent and should be as durable as possible. He must serve people, but he must not humiliate them. It must be consistent with the inner moral instinct of the citizens... [[That's right.]] ...with what's supposed to be called common sense. The role of government and state administration is to apply this law in a fair, competent and impartial manner. The law on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion, which has been in force since 1993, is not applied in a fair or complete manner. The title of this law itself is a mockery of all of us, because family planning in Poland because of lack of knowledge and access to contraception is not used, protection of the human foetus is a wishful thinking, and conditions for abortion are not respected. There is a lack of general and knowledge-based medical guidance, and there is no reliable sexual education in schools. Whether religious fanatics, Polish children and Polish youth want to do so, they live in a world full of various possibilities, desires, challenges. In order to be able to control these desires and face challenges, young people should receive quality education based on knowledge, not faith, provided by specialists prepared for it. The hypocritical and hypocritical practice of applying the current law means that young people do not know how to control their own natural reactions, however, which flow from the environment we have today, often strongly sexualized. The lack of reliable sexual education, human sexual education and youth-friendly guidance centres in the field of sexual education in schools results in unplanned pregnancies and infections of sexually transmitted diseases. There's a growing number of teenage births. For young girls unplanned, too early pregnancy is a real drama, often a cause of suicide attempts and always a threat to mental health. Since Tuesday, the media has been bugging me about a 12-year-old who was born in a Kielce hospital. On this occasion, the hospital's press secretary gave us the information. Since 1 January 2015, 14 underage patients have been born in this facility, and this is only one hospital and only 1.5 years old. In 2014, a 12-year-old had a baby in Starachowice, a 13-year-old friend was the father. In 2010, she was born in Piotrków Trybunalski. The child's father was 14 years old. [[How about an immigrant?]] And add to the fact that you're pregnant with a 12-year-old child... [[Voice from the room: How about a healthy baby?]] ...also lasts nine months. How old was she when she got pregnant? This is the consequence of the lack of sexual education and thanks to this Poland is in the last place in Europe... [[Two different things.]] ...when it comes to using contraception also by adults. A recent large study on the use of different methods of contraception, carried out in 2013, showed that 1/3 of women do not use any contraceptive method, most of which have never used these methods in life. Over 1/5 couples resort to so-called. a marriage calendar that has little effect. Modern hormonal contraception uses only 23% Polek, 6% It's got a mattress in it. The cause is difficult access to information and guidance, caused inter alia. The fact that doctors also refer in this case to a clause of conscience by refusing to write a prescription and the absence of a refund of contraceptives, which is an economic barrier for many women. The list of medicines is refunded by older generation medicines, which are very often prescribed for therapeutic purposes: in case of painful periods, etc., while such normal access to contraception, cheap, for the poorest women simply does not exist. The most common method of preventing pregnancy is using a condom. It was indicated by 30%. correspondents. The addition of this method, if it is to give a woman a sense of control over her own body, must be the availability of emergency contraception, which prevents pregnancy after unprotected intercourse. Included in the tablet a day after the hormone can inhibit ovulation... [[Voice from the room: But this is not contraception.]] ...but if the tablet was taken before ovulating. In addition, hormones, regardless of when the tablet was taken, cause changes in the lining of the uterus, hindering embryo implantation. They will not work if the embryo has already been implanted - so they have no aborted effect and are not effective if the embryo implantation process has already begun. Moreover, when they are adopted more than 24 hours after intercourse, they will not work, on the contrary, they will sustain the pregnancy. These are facts. The recipes announced by the Ministry of Health for the only non-prescription formula available is an outrageous example of women being deprived of control of their lives, because, as we all know, access to a gynecologist who will be able to write a prescription is very limited in Poland. This means another unwanted pregnancy and another abortion. I would add that women under the age of 18 have additionally limited access to contraception, which is a clear violation of their rights. Sex of minors, if they are 15 years old, is, yes, allowed and no one expects a 16-year-old to ask Mommy for permission. However, contraception only with Mommy and Daddy's consent, otherwise not. This is absurd, hurting and endangering the health and life of young people. High Izbo! The law on family planning, protection of the human fetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion is also notoriously violated in other respects. It allows abortion of pregnancy in three cases: when pregnancy poses a risk to the life or health of a pregnant woman, when prenatal examinations or other medical conditions indicate a high likelihood of severe and irreversible impairment of the foetus or of an incurable disease threatening her life and where there is a reasonable suspicion that pregnancy was caused by a crime. The government reports on the implementation of the law say several hundred treatments per year - in 2014 there were 971 of them - which seems to be a low number for a country where several million women of reproductive age live, 1/3 of which do not use contraception, and in which in 2014 alone there were 1329 rapes reported to the police, and we know very well that their actual number is much larger, because according to the STER Foundation's research, 22% of women experienced rape. This is because doctors, on the basis of a clause of conscience, refuse to perform the procedure and, even though they are obliged to do so, do not indicate another facility where a woman could terminate her pregnancy. They often wait so long to issue a proper certificate that it is too late to perform the surgery legally. So-called abuse by doctors. The clause of conscience not only makes women deprived of the right to terminate pregnancy in cases permitted by the 1993 Act but also restricts their access to prenatal research. Women find it difficult to get a referral, even if there are clear medical indications. And a little bit of data again. In 2014, 5788 invasive studies were carried out, even though they had over 33,000. women, because so many women in the age range between 35 and 44 bore children, and it is precisely the age of 35 that is the basis of, among other things, the age of 35 years of age. for carrying out prenatal examinations in pregnant women. I would also like to recall the extremely drastic issue of 2005. Two young, happy people from Saw wanted to have a baby. They loved each other, decided to make a bigger family. Unfortunately, a woman who was five months pregnant had ulcerative colitis. Weeks of torture given to her by doctors who dripping with oil an ulcer near the anus were treated by, ladies and gentlemen, APAP, because they did not want to harm the child, the refusal of an endoscopic examination by a doctor whose conscience did not allow the child to be put at risk, the words of a doctor addressed to a mother begging to save her pregnant daughter: your daughter takes too much care of her ass, too little pregnancy, and eventually the death of a 25-year-old woman. May this be a memento for you, ladies and gentlemen, for today. Remember, this is how your favorite abortion compromise works. Think of how many women will die of untreated cancer because treatment can be harmful to the fetus. After a quarter of a century of the current law, it can be concluded that the restrictive law which deprives women of their freedom to decide about them has not fulfilled any expectations, hopes associated with its origin. It did not contribute to increasing childhood, as you know perfectly well, did not make us better, it did not make us more sensitive to human needs, but it was at the root of many pathological phenomena. The Act not only did not eliminate the phenomenon of abortion, but built something that has not been found since Stalinist times in Poland: hideous, preying on women abortion undergrounds, which also include extreme hypocrites who refuse to perform legal abortions in state hospitals, and in private clinics they will be happy to do so for money. [[With pleasure?]] That's what happens. According to non-governmental organisations, 80 and 150 thousand. Polek terminates pregnancy every year - part in the country, part abroad, using the so-called. abortion tourism. Do we really want to support abortion tourism? We really want to support the abortion underground and hold it. is this absolutely inefficient and hypocritical law that is in force today? High Izbo! The draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood presented by me has been based on the demands of non-governmental organisations working for women's rights for many years. Reproduction rights, understood as the right to protect reproductive health and the right of self-determination in matters of procreation, belong to the canon of fundamental human rights. They are also protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, ordering respect for the right to dignity, art. 30, guaranteeing everyone the right to legal protection of private, family life and to decide on their personal life, art. 47, right to health care, Article. 68, and the protection of motherhood and parenthood, Art. 18. However, these constitutional guarantees in the field of reproductive rights are usually under-insufficient by ordinary legislation. The regulation we are designing is designed to change this state of affairs. Firstly, we propose that reproductive rights are human rights, and informed parenting is not just the right to terminate pregnancy. It is above all the right to know about your sexuality, that is, sexual education, the right to decide when, how much and at what intervals you want to have children, or refunded contraception. Therefore, our project regulates matters related to the right to information, education, guidance and measures to make decisions on informed parenting - i.e. art. 1 - by: providing children and young people with access to knowledge about informed parenting, human health and sexuality; ensuring the availability of modern methods and measures to prevent pregnancy; creating the possibility of legal and safe abortion; providing a pregnant woman with full health care, e.g. through access to prenatal studies and classes at birth school, as well as material care; ensuring that the provider who has signed a contract with the National Health Fund will carry out the contracted benefits. Secondly, we want to guarantee the implementation of reproductive rights and not just write them down. Therefore, Art. 2 of the bill contains a glossary of concepts defining concepts such as reproductive rights, medical procedure, procreation support, pregnancy prevention measures, informed parenting, abortion, prenatal examinations, healthcare for pregnant women, healthcare provider, according to the terminology of international documents and standards of the World Health Organisation. Art. 3 guarantees the right to self-determination in the field of reproduction and contains an exemplary, open list of public administration activities aimed at achieving the objective of protecting informed parenthood. Art. 4 obliges governmental and local authorities to ensure the implementation of reproductive rights. This article also clarifies the principles of cooperation with non-governmental organisations active in the field of reproductive rights, in accordance with the Act of 24 April 2003 on public benefit activities and voluntary activities. Art. 5 sets out the responsibilities of government and local authorities in the health care and assistance of pregnant women. The detailed scope, form and method of granting the benefits referred to in paragraph. 1, define the Council of Ministers by regulation. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 grants pregnant schoolgirls the right to take the leave and assistance necessary to complete their education. Art. 6 introduces knowledge of human sexuality of not less than 1 lesson hour per week into school curricula. This subject will, of course, be adapted to the age, cognitive abilities and needs of pupils and pupils and will apply from the first grade of primary school. The programme content is intended to include information on human sexuality, reproductive rights, protection against sexual violence, as well as methods and measures to prevent pregnancy, ways of protecting against sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV and AIDS, and shaping non-violence, partnership relationships and gender equality in society. Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Education and upbringing in agreement with the Minister responsible for Education and Education. health will establish, by means of a regulation, the scope of teaching content and introduce into the teacher education system the above mentioned. Subject matter. The fact that this subject will be taught by those who are properly prepared will guarantee that reliable information will be objective and free from indoctrination, so that students will gain knowledge that will enable them to protect themselves from dangerous sexual behaviour and unplanned pregnancy in the future and effectively protect their health. Art. 7 requires government and local authorities to ensure real access to pregnancy prevention methods and measures. At the same time, in the mouth. The refund of contraceptives under the provisions of the Act of 12 May 2011 on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices shall be guaranteed. A refund is also to be granted for post-comital contraception measures, as defined by the pregnancy prevention measures provided for in Article. 2 of this draft law. The right to free contraception will also be given to people in difficult material situations. Such a formulation of the conditions for the availability of pregnancy prevention measures will not only allow access to modern methods and measures of family planning for more women, regardless of their economic status, but will also save women raped so that they can protect themselves from an unwanted pregnancy resulting from traumatic experiences. The experience of other countries shows that full availability of post-comital contraception has significantly contributed to reducing the number of unplanned pregnancies and abortion procedures, as women can benefit from it in an emergency situation, i.e. in the case of unprotected sex or when other methods of protection against unwanted pregnancy have failed. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 4 7 obliges county authorities to set up and finance institutions providing guidance on informed parenting and other reproductive rights. The network of such facilities at district level will improve access to reproductive health protection. Art. The 8th proposed proposal regulates abortion. In line with the intention of the projectors, the decision to terminate pregnancy should be a woman's only decision, since the embryo is not a legal matter. A woman has the right to discontinue pregnancy without any restrictions during the first trimester of pregnancy. Your doctor will discontinue your pregnancy as early as possible, according to current medical knowledge, including pharmacological methods. The procedure should be performed no later than 72 hours after the woman has expressed her will. More than 12 weeks of pregnancy, the procedure will be possible if there are three well-known conditions: pregnancy is a risk to the life or health of the pregnant woman, there is a high likelihood of severe and irreversible damage to the foetus or an incurable disease threatening its life, pregnancy is the result of a prohibited act, i.e. point 3. In all these cases, the final decision to continue or discontinue pregnancy shall be taken by the woman after receiving medical information. In the cases referred to in paragraph. The termination of pregnancy shall be permitted up to 24 weeks in the cases referred to in paragraph 2. If pregnancy threatens the health and life of a woman, termination of pregnancy is permitted without restriction, paragraph 3 - up to the 18th week of pregnancy. In proposing these provisions, the designers relied on the current law on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion, which includes this closed catalogue of conditions, as well as the latest laws governing the right to terminate pregnancy adopted in Spain and Portugal. Art. 9 is intended to ensure respect for the dignity of minors or women wholly incapacitated with regard to their reproductive rights. Although it is the statutory representative who must consent to the abortion procedure, both the minor and the woman completely incapacitated must agree to this medical procedure. If the legal representative does not give his consent, the decision shall be taken by the court of custody. It is worth noting that minors over the age of 13 must give their written consent and minors under the age of 13 have the right to express their own opinion. In the case of an incapacitated woman, the written consent of that person is also required, unless the expression does not permit mental health. According to Art. 10 termination of pregnancy is a health service within the meaning of the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. The purpose of this article is to provide comprehensive benefits to pregnant women, including those related to abortion. The Act obliges the provider who has concluded an agreement with the National Health Fund to do so and requires it to make the list of names of all doctors cooperating with the provider publicly available, who rely on the so-called. Reconciliation clause - Art. 9 The Act of 5 December 1996 on the professions of doctors and dentists - refuses to provide health services related to abortion. This list is to be made available to a woman at her individual request. It is to be mandatory, in the light of Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 3, notification to the National Health Fund and publication in the Public Information Bulletin. In addition, the National Health Fund terminates the contract with the provider if it does not provide, despite the possibility, comprehensive health services related to the health care of pregnant women, including those related to abortion, and fails to comply with the obligations set out in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. The objective of this Article. 10 is to guarantee the real availability of health services, in particular those related to abortion, and should contribute to the reduction of the doctor-abuse conscience clause. Art. 11 is a guarantee of secrecy in all matters arising from the new law. The purpose of this provision is to respect privacy. The responsibility for the disclosure of secrecy lies with the provider and the victim of the disclosure of professional secrecy in matters governed by the new law has the right to demand an adequate sum for compensation or compensation for the damage suffered. It is worth noting that there have already been cases of breach of medical confidentiality, exposure to the harm of patients, therefore the sanctions introduced should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, so that in the future there is no such cases, and that the woman, the person benefiting from reproductive health advice and benefits, is simply better protected. Provisions contained in Article. The current right to the changes introduced by the project is adapted by 12 and 15. The Social Assistance Act of 12 March 2004 is amended in which Article. 39 (1) (a) The special allowance may also be used to cover the costs of purchasing pregnancy prevention measures. Art. 13 amends the Act of 5 December 1996 on competitions for doctors and dentists. An important change is to improve access for minors to contraception, as at the request of a minor, the doctor is required to provide pregnancy prevention services without the consent of the statutory representative, guardian and court. In addition, a doctor who refers to a clause of conscience must report it in writing in each treatment facility or in each healthcare provider with which he cooperates and to the body which keeps a register of individual medical practices. Such a provision will put an end to the usual practice so far when a doctor refuses to provide services at a public institution on the grounds of a conscience clause, and without any problem does it in a private institution for money. An important solution is the amendment to the Penal Code of Article. 156 § 1 paragraph 1, introduced in Article. 14, consisting of decriminalisation of sterilization carried out with the consent of the patient or patient and the repeal of Article. 157a Criminal Code. Art. 15 amends the Act on the Ombudsperson of Children's Rights by repealing the Article. 2, which defines a child as a human being from conception to adulthood, which is incompatible with other laws, including the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Art. 16 repeals the law on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for abortion of 7 January 1993 and Article. 17 sets the date of entry into force of the Act within 14 days of the date of publication. Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The project presented by me brings Poland closer to the standards of civilized and intelligently organized societies. This is how abortion is regulated in several selected European countries. In Austria, abortion is available at the request of a woman during the first 3 months of pregnancy. If the pregnant woman was not at the time of conception of 14 years of age and for medical reasons, removal of the pregnancy shall be permitted without time limit. In the UK, pregnancy can be legally discontinued if continuing pregnancy poses a greater risk to a woman than removal or if there is a risk that the child will be born handicapped. In Italy, abortion is permitted within the first 90 days of pregnancy. In Denmark, every woman has the right to terminate pregnancy at the request of up to 12 weeks of pregnancy and in some cases after that date. In Sweden, by analogy. In the Netherlands, abortion on demand is allowed up to 3 months. [[There even children kill alive.]] Non-European countries with women-friendly abortion rights - I will give you just a few examples - Tunisia since 1967, South Africa, Nepal, Benin, Bhutan, Cambodia, Chad, Colombia, Ethiopia, Guinea, Lebanon, Mali, Niger, Thailand or Togo. Poland is far behind them. But of course there are also countries where the law is restrictive, and it is not only a drastic case of El Salvador or Nicaragua, but it is also the Vatican, Gabon, Iran or Haiti. Once we were built a second Japan, then a second Ireland, now I think some people are dreaming of at least another Vatican. Well, many of us are absolutely against it. If anyone thinks that everything Poland has done against its citizens... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Mrs. Basiu...]] ...he misses the assessment and knowledge of the civilized world, that's very wrong. Threatened violations of the right to protection of reproductive health and self-determination in matters of procreation, such as Poland's negligence in access to sexual education and modern methods of family planning, have already been criticised many times by international authorities who are responsible for upholding the treaties on the protection of human rights. The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in 1998, 2002 and 2009, the UN Human Rights Committee in 1999, 2004 and 2010, and the Committee on Torture at its 51st session held in Geneva at the turn of October and November 2013. In its final remarks, the Committee stressed that women who are denied access to abortion were referred to as women. a clause of conscience, they risk their lives and health by submitting to abortion in dangerous conditions, and such a situation is already a violation of their human rights, including the right to protection against torture, inhuman, cruel and degrading treatment. The Committee then called on Poland to comply with the latest recommendations of the World Health Organisation regarding access to safe abortion and to introduce procedures to ensure that the appointment of a clause of conscience by doctors will not restrict patients' access to legal medical services. The Committee also recommended Poland to introduce legal regulations to ensure access to legal abortion. The same recommendations were included in the reports of the other UN committees. High Izbo! In parallel with the project I have presented, another citizens' initiative is being considered in the opposite direction. Its authors, who post a prison sentence for women who have aborted or just had a miscarriage, apparently follow it in El Salvador. Let me tell you about El Salvador. A few years ago, Carmen Guadalupe Vasquez was hospitalized for miscarriage. The doctors first started stopping the hemorrhage, and then they called the police who chained the girl to the bed and then put her in the van and brought her into custody. There's been an investigation into the termination of the pregnancy. When the D.A. decided the fetus was viable, the girl was charged with murder. Despite her assurances that she didn't do anything wrong, she didn't intend to abort the pregnancy and didn't want to harm her unborn child in any way, convinced of her guilt... [[Baby, you said.]] ...a great defender of life, sentenced her to 30 years in prison. Her pregnancy was the result of a crime because she was raped by her employer's neighbor. She lost her baby, and she almost died on her own. How does this situation differ from what it cooks for Poles... [[The baby's lost.]] ...a project to stop abortion? Just the amount of the sentence. That's exactly what you want. The fanatics who want this project want a similar fate for us as the one who met Carmen Vasquez. Yes, they want this fate for your messenger, for your child. For yourselves, you want this fate, for your daughters and grandchildren. [[Mrs. Basiu, really...]] You can't do that, ladies and gentlemen. You can't plan hell for others. But it's not over. An absolute ban on abortion is a gift for rapists. Their victims will not report to the police for fear that if they report, they will automatically become a suspect in abortion or under surveillance as potential criminals. Already under the so-called rule. a compromise can be a simple report, and can be the reason for entering the medical office of the police investigating the criminal and the doctor committing the criminal offence. Each of us is a suspect. We're still suspicious, since we've reached sexual maturity... [[You're obsessed.]] ...to the menopause. Here are a few decades of life in a state of danger, which is better not to talk about and not to hear and not to notice. This is the real life of Poles, not icing pictures. Hypocritical and lying is allowing this condition to continue. Before you begin to decide in the votes about our lives and our health, I appeal, try to find out anything about the case you're deciding. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Please reject the prejudices, do not look at the polls or wonder what words of praise you will receive on Sunday or on the Radio Mary in a moment. If he's speaking to you... [[Mrs. Basiu, no, this is too much, please.]] ...demographic argument taken alive from communist Romania... [[Take it easy.]] ...let's ban abortion so more babies are born, so think again. If you are cynical and think of society as rabbit breeders think about their herd, then consider that the world is changing and today's Poland is not Romania from 40 years ago. In today's world... [[You're not insulting us.]] ...high birth rates have those countries where children are wanted and planned, among them the Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands I referred to. And if you have hearts, notice that unwanted pregnancies are also suffering unwanted, unnecessary children to no one. Already in Polish care facilities... [[You know what, no, that's too much, Mrs. Basia.]] ...there are hundreds of children who are unwanted and unloved. These children were not orphaned as a result of war, natural disaster, or other cataclysms. This is the practical application of the hypocritical counsel: "Let him inform and give birth, and give him up for adoption. ' It's deluded, because the stories about the children's turn for adoption are scumbag lies, and you know it. Besides, a child is not a commodity that gives up, and a pregnancy is not a baggage. Even this banal truth is sometimes difficult for some moralists to understand. However, in a dispute that has been going on for a good 30 years, abortion is not about demography or morality. It is all about the power of women, their lives, and thus the power of society as a whole. [[What are you saying?]] We are aware that all logical arguments in the field of law, medicine, human development biology are all participants in the debate... [[Obsession.]] ...on reproductive rights and health long known or at least should be known. We know that Poles and Poles are still deprived of the possibility of exercising their rights, and even worse, there are those who today and these very limited, residual rights want to take away women. In order to restore the sense of the law and to give people freedom and dignity, one must finally acknowledge this undisputed truth: It is only a free choice to decide whether, when and how many children to have, to the same extent that all women are protected. By legally guaranteeing freedom of choice, we show respect for women and we make fully free those of them who never in their lives in any situation and on no condition will decide to terminate the pregnancy, because we give them a choice, but we also understand them and we give a choice to those for whom abortion may be an option in certain situations. The High House has a great chance today that this will happen so that Poland will finally be normal. The case that brought us here - and I am saying 'nas', because I represent the committee 'Let's save women', that is over 200,000. A citizen... [[Cynic.]] ...and citizens who supported with their signatures a draft law on women's rights and informed parenting - already has a long and painful history. I will admit that, given the composition of this Sejm, we would probably not attempt to change the law in a more common sense, normalizing direction, if not for the insane proposal of groups heated by the Church - an institution which, according to what it claims of itself, as you know perfectly, consists of people who have permanently given up their sexuality. However, the scale of support has shown that we were worth collecting these signatures - not only that... [[Oh, Jesus.]] ...to be able to stand before you here today and present rational arguments, but also because it is a very upbuilding exercise of civic responsibility. [[Voice from the room: How much longer?]] We all understand that being a citizen and a citizen doesn't mean going to the election once every few years and throwing a vote in the ballot box. It means, first of all, constantly caring for the welfare of the country, looking at the common fate of Poles and Poles, it is also to look at how power is exercised on our behalf, and finally, if we consider that the authorities of the Polish Republic do not see, understand or cannot see certain needs, be a citizen or a citizen, it means to propose their own solutions and do everything that our constitution provides and what is written in the laws, so that these solutions reach those who are right on our behalf. Over 200,000. Poles and Poles, close to a quarter of a million Poles and Poles, decided that freedom and dignity of women, when not properly protected by the law, are a matter that we should take care of, which you should also take care of, so that in Poland it is normal, and it is not. For is there a normal situation when we live in a country where a woman cannot decide whether, when and how many children she wants to have, i.e. - and this will be confirmed by the main parties in the Seym - she has a real opportunity to decide the fate of 38 million people and has no right to decide for herself? We all live in Poland, where women were three times at the head of the government and none of them, leading the politics of the whole country, could ever decide when, whether and how many children she wanted to have. She had no right to decide for herself. That is what it is, Members and Members. This is our reality, which few people like to see from this perspective. It is so - it was said by the French fighter for women's freedom and rights - that since a woman can legally hang on a gallows, she also has the right to stand on a platform. And we in the second decade of the 21st century should say to ourselves: If a woman has the right to be President of the Council of Ministers, she should have the right to decide whether, how much and when she wants to have children. [[Joy in the Chamber]] If this fundamental right is deprived of, or is cut off, and the practice in place allows women to have real access to, this right, then all other rights and freedoms are reduced. Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! If you consider the issues discussed here today, using your own judgment and faith in human goodness and honesty, it will be easy for you to understand the simplest truth: having a right to something does not mean using it. To have no right means to be without choice. What country would you rather live in? One that she chose for us or one that supports us in our choices? Answer this question, ladies and gentlemen. [[Then let's do a referendum, too, if you can steal.]] We all want Poles to have healthy, happy motherhood, and we don't assume, like ultraconservatives, that people are bad and women dream of having an abortion. That kind of thinking hits you and your constituents. As Members and Members, you are the law not for the comfort of your conscience, but for the good life of citizens and citizens, even if yours and their choices differ in certain matters. An efficient country is one with a good, effective and friendly law. An efficient country is one that does not rule out, impose neither faith nor belief, turn a blind eye to exclusion, and does not give silent permission to circumvent the law by wealthy elites, in this case it is abortion tourism, or the hell of women for the poor and excluded, i.e. abortion underground, cottage abortions, mutilations and corpses of newborns in barrels. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Oh, bravo!]] To conclude, I will quote the words that were said many years ago in this House: in Parliament, acting as a law, we must anticipate the effects it will have. We have to make a choice as to whether we care about a seemingly noble record... [[Or life.]] ...or on the legal, actual reduction of abortions. On behalf of the applicants, I ask the High House to refer the bill to further work in committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u382	I would like to thank the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda. Non-members have to be used during the whole session of the Sejm for 6 minutes, so that the amount of time spent will have an impact on subsequent speeches. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Tomas Latos on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u383	Dear Marshal! Minister! Representatives of the Civil Initiatives! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to refer to two citizens' initiatives, 784 and 830. I'm going to say right away that my club doesn't impose party discipline on this kind of vote. Of course, we have a view on the direction of further work, and although we do not support the initiative put forward by Mrs Barbara Nowacka just now, it is in line with the principle that we discussed earlier, also during the election campaign, that all citizens' initiatives will be directed to further work, that we will not apply this principle, which was applied in the previous parliamentary term, when citizens' initiatives were rejected at first reading - both the first print project No. 784, and the second one we will give the opportunity to continue in committee. To be honest, listening to Mrs Barbara Nowacka just now, I was hoping that, yes, there would be a dispute, there would be a difference of opinion, but there would be no such provocation that you had against this room, and that, I think, against the whole room, not only towards my club, but also towards Members from many other clubs. I am convinced that each of us will judge these matters in our own conscience, and I am convinced that they will be very thoughtful decisions. Here I would like to thank you for Dr. Joanna Banasiuk's very substantive speech. [[Applause]] Mrs Barbara Nowacka cited a series of, I admit, very exotic countries. I will add two other entries to this long list: Ireland and Malta. These are certainly non-exotic countries, from our cultural circle, although slightly different in terms of abortion issues, because in Ireland in 2014 abortion was allowed in the event of a woman's life-threatening situation. So there's a pattern and some experience here. You didn't have to look so far away and so exotic. You can also look for examples in Europe when these cases were resolved in a different way than in Poland under the so-called. an abortion compromise. Finally, I would also like to stress that if not primarily my club, but also the Kukiz club15, perhaps today's debate would be at least partially unfounded. Well, 2 hours ago, during the work of the three joint committees, it was proposed to adopt a late resolution, since it had been in the committees for six months, which means that the present so-called "show" is to be completely sustained. an abortion compromise. I don't know what... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: So what?]] ...formule we would debate today if this resolution had been adopted, or then... [[Normal.]] ...how and to whom both ladies would appeal, convincing that these two projects belong further... [[To those who would, of course, be against it.]] ...to pay attention to committees and further parliamentary work. There was also a reference to constitutional issues in the speech. I will also use some quotes from the justification of the 784 print project. It's in the article. 38 constitutions we have written that Rzeczpospolita Polska provides legal protection of life for every man. Finally, it is also worth mentioning two judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 May 1997:. Since its inception human life has thus become a constitutionally protected value. This also applies to the prenatal phase. [[Applause]] And finally... [[Bravo Constitution!]] ...a further quote from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2004, dated 7 January:. Any possible doubts as to the protection of human life should be resolved in favour of this protection. Ladies and gentlemen! If we quote existing acts, including the constitution, let us be fair and show all the legal aspects, including those in Poland. As in this regard, the so-called. does the abortion compromise have to do with these legal solutions, including constitutional solutions? As I understand it was an inspiration and was the basis for preparing the first of the projects, the first of the citizens' initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen! In Poland, it is done every year - according to surveys, according to statistics, which can be obtained at least from the Ministry of Health - about 1 thousand. abortion. The main reason is actually eugenic causes. What are the reasons, ladies and gentlemen? It so happens that in many cases these are not fatal defects, they are not cases of severe foetal damage - although, of course, you can ask each individual who requested this, what he understands under the slogan of severe foetal injury. According to the survey, about 1/3 of people with Down syndrome are aborted in Poland. Of course, if we compare it with countries where abortion is permitted even to the last minute, practically to start labor, that's about half of what we're dealing with in those countries. Nevertheless, this is a problem that each of us must face and answer the question of whether this born child would live and be unhappy whether this child would suffer or if this child had no right to live. The first project, unfortunately, lacked this in the second project, also devoted a lot of attention to issues related to support for people who will give birth to sick children. I believe that this calls for deeper consideration and support, because so far, it is true that support from the state, but also from local authorities, also from non-governmental organisations, has been lacking. I believe that this point in your initiative, in your draft law, is very important because, while awaiting a change in attitudes towards abortion, we must also provide support from the state - from the state, from local governments, from NGOs. At the same time, I believe, which is also included in your project, that women should not be punished. I am convinced that this will be one of the points that should be given a lot of attention during further parliamentary work so that this punishment for women does not, however, exist. Speaking of these two projects, it should also be mentioned that both of them contain issues related to education, but how otherwise understood, otherwise understood. The agreement on education, because it is certainly lacking in Polish education. [[Voice from the room: Yes?]] On the other hand, the question of what and how we will teach and how we will pass on knowledge is, in my opinion, crucial. Finally, error issues [[♪ The bell ♪]] Doctors, which was referred to in the second speech. I would really like to ask that issues relating to the obvious medical errors I believe are not some kind of smokescreen and give no justification for liberalisation...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u384	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u385	...laws, which were proposed by Mrs Barbara Nowacka. In fact, it was the wrong medical procedure that led me to that tragic situation that you mentioned. But at the same time, we must call...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u386	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u387	...a different example. One more sentence. We must recall another example that was cited by the first of the ladies. I'm thinking about this tragic event here, about giving birth, actually having a baby with Down syndrome, which was left to itself without any help. Let's stop, ladies and gentlemen, with hypocrisy. At the same time, we're either talking about abortion, or we're talking about rescue, an incubator and any other medical assistance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u388	Mr President, I will have to turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u389	In that case, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I declare that we are in favour of directing both projects... [[Voice from the room: Both?]] ...for further work in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, stating that we do not support the other of these projects. However, we believe that we owe this to the citizens' initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u390	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Monica Wieliczhowska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Representatives of Civil Projects Set! Today we have two projects at stake: extremely conservative and liberal. Today, politics has joined in the moral process. In such situations you always have to look for a compromise and focus on it. The questioning of a law developed in 1993, which is called a compromise or a social law involving the Church, which at the same time contains one of the most restrictive regulations in Europe, but yet has been passing an exam for more than 23 years, is today, given the furniture of the political stage... Any attempt to violate laws left or right is an incentive to start an ideological and worldview war in Poland. High Izbo, a breach of compromise will be an attempt to further divide Poles. Abortion is a very difficult subject, very painful and very individual, individual for every woman. However, it is difficult to remain silent when a draft law appears in which women are treated in question when women are incapacitated. It happens in difficult, most dramatic situations when women are forced to be heroic, when there is a project that tells children to be born with severe flaws, when there is a project that commands... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...to give birth to children conceived as a result of rape, which orders us to maintain pregnancies that threaten the life of a woman. [[But if they're healthy?]] You can't keep quiet when we're looking at a project that condemns women to life in fear for their health and their lives and their loved ones. We don't agree to a pregnancy being run by a prosecutor, not a doctor. High Izbo, when you push Poland into a civilization abyss, on the other hand, a project from the antipodes appears. A project that contains important elements about education, about better availability of contraception, but which at the same time gives so much freedom of abortion that it can open a door for young people instead of contraception. This is also difficult to accept, therefore, in order to avoid a war against women, against Poles, in April this year, I will remind you, 5 months ago, the Civic Platform Club submitted a draft resolution in the Sejm on respect for the compromise reached in the Act of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and the conditions for the admissibility of abortion. The project was conducted today by the Marshal who responded to yesterday's call by Mrs. Ewa Kopacz and Mrs. Joanna Flya. Today there was a quick, non-proceeding resolution. High Izbo, in the resolution we asked all parties to this difficult debate about respect for the compromise developed in free and democratic Poland. We don't want an escalation of disputes and worldview confusion. We expect all politicians to respect both citizens who have conservative values and those who have liberal views, because every democratic, neutral worldview state must respect the views of every citizen. This means that in politics and in social life, the value is not war, but a wise compromise. My fellow Members, I address you in particular. We're in Seym 125. Never in the history of Polish parliamentarianism was there such a large representation of women. Together we have strength, and it is a powerful force. Let's respect the girls, respect the women, respect the Polkas, respect us ourselves... [[And the kids.]] ...and the right to decide for ourselves, because together, together, we can decide for each other. And let's not let the arymetic majority take away their rights. [[Arithmetic.]] Let us preserve a compromise that does not force women to go underground, to put them in prison, but at the same time not to promote easy access to abortion. High Izbo, I would like to remind the rulers, the Law and Justice, of the position of Mrs Maria Kaczyńska, who was strongly opposed to tightening the rules prohibiting abortion. I would like to remind you of President Lech Kaczyński, whose legacy you often call back. [[So you can always call him up like that.]] [[But calm down. Calm down. Now it's about abortion, not ADHD.]] The president was also in favour of maintaining the abortion compromise and said: This is a compromise that must not be touched. The Civic Platform Club also appeals: Let us maintain a compromise that does not force women to go underground, put them in prison, but also does not make it easier to have access to abortion. We appeal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u392	The second Member to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club is Mrs Joanna Mucha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Why are they so black? Are you in mourning?]] First of all, about the Act of the "Stop Abortion" initiative. This isn't a life protection bill. [[Of course not.]] This is a law about life being of different value, depending on whose life it is. It's a law about prenatal life being worth more than a woman's life. This is a bill about the fact that a pregnant woman's life can be risked in vain and heartlessly. [[Not at all.]] [[Quiet, we want to hear it.]] [[What's there to hear?]] [[Then leave.]] This is a law about prenatal life being more valuable than the right of children born to have a mother. [[Voice from the room: Life is life.]] Many parents would give their lives for their children. [[Exactly.]] But would any of you dare to offer a parent to have a father... [[He left his kids behind.]] ...had an obligation to give his life for his born child? [[No problem, it's obvious.]] And that's what you're proposing to women whose lives or health are at risk because of pregnancy. [[What are you talking about?]] You're asking them to agree to give their lives. [[You haven't read the bill.]] Yeah, we're talking in this act about risking a woman's life.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u394	Member, please wait a moment. I have my attention to the Members on the right. If anyone doesn't want to listen, you can leave the room. [[Do you hear me?]] But everyone has the right in this Chamber to express their own views and to present their own views. [[Applause]] When a member of the Law and Justice Club spoke, there was no such interference. So please remain calm and allow others to express their opinion. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[We'll see.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u395	Thank you very much, Marshal. There is talk in this law about risking the life of a woman, because the doctor has the right to take medical measures to protect the life of a woman only if she is in a state of direct danger of life. It is proposed in this bill that a doctor with decades of experience should stand over a woman and wait for her to die, because only then will he be able to treat her. This is a law that bends low over a woman who will survive one of the greatest misfortunes that can happen to her, which is when she has a miscarriage. But instead of medical attention, instead of the support of a psychologist, this bill offers this woman criminal prosecution. It's a law around this woman that creates a climate of suspicion, treats her like a potential criminal, maybe even throws her in jail. This is a law that marks the end of Polish prenatal diagnosis and treatment during fetal life. This bill proposes the protection of the prenatal life of some, and others de facto take away the chance of treatment still in mom's belly. This is a law that deprives thousands of Polish couples of the chance to have children, because with this law ends in vitro in Poland. This is a law that protects rapists. And you know who told me that? A cop told me about it. [[But what is it?]] A policeman who asked to do everything he could to ensure that this bill did not enter into force, because if it came into force, women in Poland would be afraid to report rape to the police. [[Weak policeman.]] This is a bill that commands a woman to bear a sick child, a child deeply handicapped. [[But it's a baby.]] I really respect women who make that choice, but they can't be forced to do that. You can't force women to be heroic. [[It's better to kill.]] Remember, too, that many times the pregnancy and birth of a child who dies shortly after giving birth have a health impact on this woman. Once again, the health of a woman, sometimes her life for applicants doesn't seem to matter. [[Denial every time.]] There are people who think that some women get pregnant to get rid of this pregnancy. Let's face it, it's for such imaginary women that you have written this bill. You are convinced that if it weren't for your concern, not for your political efforts, if it weren't for your prison sentence, these women would have interrupted these pregnancies for their own satisfaction. Well, I'm trying to get you out of the way. There are no women like that. Women have removed, removed and will remove pregnancy regardless of whether this law enters into force or not. Because they're not doing it for pleasure, they're doing it for necessity. This bill won't make abortion less. Only they will be more expensive and more dangerous for women. You guys really want it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Put those women in jail? And you really want to put a 17-year-old girl in jail who got pregnant during one of her first intercourses? A mother of several children who knows she can't raise another child? A woman raped who's gonna have an abortion, you want to put her in jail too? [[It's completely out of the question.]] Your Marshal, I understand that I can continue to extend because... [[You have to help women, not kill children.]] We fully agree with the view that we should protect the right to live from birth, but this right has in our country the protection of one of the highest in Europe, among the countries of our civilization. For 23 years we have managed to maintain the so-called. an abortion compromise, a compromise that does not satisfy anyone, which is attacked by the women's environment, but we are convinced in the Civic Platform that this compromise should be defended, because on one side and the other side is the hell of an ideological dispute. The act liberalizing access to abortion, let's not hide it, is the result of a proposal for a total ban on abortion. What is worth noting is that it has more support from Poles than the total ban on abortion, it shows research.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u396	But I'm gonna need you to get to the end of this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u397	I'm on my way to the end, Marshal. However, the greatest support of the citizens of our country has the so-called behaviour. A compromise 23 years ago. Compromise, which - I repeat once again - does not satisfy anyone, but guarantees us, protects us from the hell of ideological dispute. Of course, there will be no discipline in the Civic Platform in the vote, but as a club, we are in favour of protecting the compromise we have worked out 23 years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u398	Thank you very much. And to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15, I will ask Mrs Agnieszka Chasing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Civil Initiatives! For both draft laws, and for print No 784, and for print No 830, there will be no position of the Kukiz Club15. There is pluralism in Kukiz15, and each Member will take his decision in accordance with his knowledge and conscience. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u400	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u401	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna talk about the bill, the "Stop Abortion" initiative. Since this draft law went to the Sejm Chancellery and since it was known that we would be working on it here, I could not understand how it is possible that in 2016 we would debate such an inhumane project. After all, each of us is well aware that yes, abortion can theoretically be banned, but in practice it is very difficult to stop it, that it is merely false and hypocritical. In the discussion about abortion, there is too much ideological engulfment, myths and empty emotions. Here, ladies and gentlemen, you need less emotion and more reason, less shouting and more cool focus on the essence of the problem. [[Yeah, you can do that.]] Some things just can't be decreed. The abortions were, are and will be whatever decision is made in this Parliament. We already have one of the most restrictive laws in Europe regulating abortion. And all of a sudden, with the total omission of women's voices, disregarding the opinion of the majority of citizens, contrary to what the polls show, you are trying your initiative to introduce criminality for any act of abortion, regardless of the circumstances, whether it's rape, whether it's a threat to the life of a mother or a dramatic decision of a woman. I have the impression that this project was created in complete isolation from the expectations of women and, unfortunately, it is very misogynistic in its pronunciation. If this project somehow enters into force, then everyone loses on this project, ladies and gentlemen, all of them. You are losing and losing politicians who have turned against women, losing citizens who limit their freedom to decide about fundamental matters and personal matters, losing women who, in the face of a truly dramatic decision on abortion, will live in even greater fear of oppression, as it turns out, a country that will not help them at all, but will kill them in life. I think it doesn't matter whether it's a right-wing project or a left-wing project or a green one or a navy blue one or anything else. This project you presented today does not identify the problem of abortion. This project does not stress the solution to this problem. There are no system solutions in it. The right to life applies to all of us to the same extent, but the main burden associated with the conceived life rests on the woman. [[Applause]] It should be under the particular protection of the State, regardless of what decision it takes. And the decision to have an abortion, ladies and gentlemen, is always a dramatic decision and is often a decision taken alone, a burden for a woman for the rest of her life. It is good that we lean on civil projects in the Sejm, and it is good that citizens make such projects. But when I read this project, I ask myself all the time whether the authors of the proposed changes have ever dealt with abortion in the real world, or whether it is just a theoretical term for them. And unfortunately, I think the answer is the other part, which is the theoretical term. Abortion, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing more than an interruption of the developing fetus in the body. [[Voice from the room: Very nice.]] Your project does not even reflect on the fact that abortion is the most dramatic decision in the life of a woman and her family. You haven't predicted such a normal situation at all. Imagine a situation where a woman finds out... [[Voice from the room: This is not a normal situation.]] ...that she's pregnant and that the pregnancy threatens her life and she has two children and a husband. How would you behave in this situation if this woman and doctor were put in prison after implementing this law? Have you thought of such situations? I won't even mention the women who were raped, because I have the impression that you are celebrating the suffering of these women by your law. Ladies and gentlemen, no one reasonable to have an abortion. does not act on impulse and whimsical. It's always drama and last resort. Therefore, the Modern proposes to reject this law in its entirety. [[Voices from the hall: Which bill?]] [[Bravo!]] And I'm just gonna say one more thing. A woman should decide what she should do, whether to have a baby or not. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u402	I understand, Madame, that it is printing No 784. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Yes.]] On behalf of the Modern Club, I would also ask Mrs Joanna Schmidt to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u403	High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Club on the social draft law on women's rights and informed parenting. It is rare in Poland that citizens' draft laws are being discussed. We managed to raise $250,000. signatures, which made the project subject to parliamentary debate. This clearly shows that the subject of abortion is socially important. There is a large group of people for whom the so-called records. the 1993 abortion compromise is insufficient and concerns about the possibility of tightening up anti-abortion rules are very strong. It's been almost a quarter of a century since the law in force entered into force. Looking at the baggage of these experiences, we can assess the strengths and weaknesses of this law. Therefore, we should not go through this issue indifferently, especially since the problem of abortion is thousands of dramatic stories of women, their families, which should be taken care of as a country. After a quarter of the age of the abortion bill, called compromise, it was time to correct it about the experience and knowledge of the last 23 years. You cannot hide your head in the sand and pretend that the law in force is implemented according to your intentions. Unfortunately, it's not. Speaking of specifics, I am referring to the following issues: reliable sexual education, safe and accessible contraception, clarification of the provisions related to the clause of conscience, availability of gynecological services for minors, broad psychological support for every woman before surgery. Today, in 2016, it is necessary to regulate these issues so that there is as little misery and as little abortion procedures as possible in Poland. The World Health Organization estimates that every fifth pregnancy in the world is removed, regardless of whether the law in a given country is restrictive or liberal. We have no control over human conscience, we shouldn't have it. As parliamentarians, we have an impact on the safety of Polish women. I think we all agree, as we sit here, that abortion should be as rare as possible. This is the overriding purpose of this law, and I want to stress it. Of course, we share the situation in which we allow abortion. Even with us, at the Modern Club. However, if this is unavoidable, we want abortion to be carried out as early as possible and under the most secure conditions for women. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] In Poland, the law allows people who are over 15 to have sex but are not responsible until they are 18. A 16-year-old girl can start a sexual initiation, but a gynecologist can only go with his mother or father. This means that some of them will not consult with a specialist because of their shame or fear of their parents. [[Shame is a good thing.]] An important aspect that should be part of today's debate is the introduction of broad sexual education. At the moment, most women, especially young people, have no basic knowledge of family planning methods but also sexually transmitted diseases. Teenagers learn about it from the Internet or from their peers. As a result, unwanted pregnancies among minors are increasingly occurring, which is a phenomenon that needs to be tackled radically and effectively. The second element that should be stressed is the provision of more access to contraception. Poland is a country of the European Union where the use of modern methods of contraception is at the lowest level. There are two reasons. One is the lack of sexual education I mentioned. The second barrier is the economic barrier - because contraceptives are simply expensive, not all can afford them. Therefore, we support the claim for contraception refund, which will reduce the number of abortions. And then there's the art. Ten of this bill. The aim is to guarantee the real availability of health services, in particular those related to abortion, and should contribute to reducing the abuse of so-called "doctors." a clause of conscience. There are more and more cases where doctors refer to a clause of conscience and refuse to perform the procedure. We must give women discretion and dignity. You can't send women from hospital to hospital, especially in such a dramatic situation of life. [[♪ The bell ♪]] High Seym! When discussing this bill, it must be remembered that abortion is always a physical and psychological burden for a woman. Unfortunately, sometimes it is necessary. Very often it is a last resort. Let me stress again: Abortion, if it has to be performed, is to be safe. We owe it to thousands of women and all those who have taken matters into their own hands by putting this project into the hands of the Marshal of the Sejm. Therefore, as a modern club, we will request that this project be directed to work in committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u404	Thank you very much, Madam President, for taking the floor. I now ask Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u405	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Representatives of Legislative Initiatives! High Izbo! Firstly, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to appeal for a number of issues: tolerance to the decisions that will be taken in the High House, respect for the freedom of the Member's mandate and exercise and the ability to decide in accordance with his conscience in all political formations. This is the foundation that should always guide us in such matters. Building bridges is not a specialty of Poles - building bridges between people. He's not a member of the High House's specialty either. It's a lot easier for us to play high C, conquering the drum and raising emotions. I would like us to be able to respect different views in this debate, regardless of our beliefs and values, regardless of our faith or the search for God, regardless of which side of the High House we sit on. We owe it to each other, first of all, personally, we owe it to the national community that we create, and to the nation that we represent. It may be the upper-floor words, but sometimes you have to hit it. not only patriotic, but also this worldly sense of our own identity. That is what I ask on behalf of my club, where there will be no discipline, everyone will vote as he thinks, according to his beliefs. In my speech, I will mainly talk about those of my own who are probably on many issues in line with the beliefs of the various people in this room. We are in favour of protecting life, this is a fundamental statement that, I think, must fall, and each of us is looking for a way to best protect this life. I fear that the adoption of extreme projects means that, to a lesser extent, at some point, this life will be protected. Because it's not hard to imagine a situation when today we're adopting a project that tightens up the abortion bill, and in a few years, some liberal-left power comes and overly liberalizes it. I think that then those who sign the tightening bill today will have a big problem and will be very disappointed with what happened. With many words spoken today in this Chamber, not only on the part of one legislative initiative, one can agree, because education and awareness are needed. We often speak different languages about the same issue, although in Polish they are different languages. They're often very sharp. In this regard, we should also develop a common position on education, which I think is much easier than on fundamental issues relating to this solution. I cannot accept abortion at any time in the Liberal Act. This is incompatible with this system of values, with the teaching of the Catholic Church. And the Church is not just a community of clergy. The Church is a community of those who are secular and clergymen. In all these actions in the Liberal Act, I cannot agree with the concept of "do what you want," but also in the Law tightening it up, I cannot agree with the statement that I would like to punish a woman with prison punishment. That is why I have a few questions for legislators, as well as for the party which will ultimately decide the outcome of the work on these laws. Before I ask them, I wanted to quote the words of the Holy Father Francis, whom we listened to with such attention during World Youth Days. And the question is whether we only listened on World Youth Days or if there was something left of this teaching. Pope Francis called on us to approach this difficult problem in the spirit of mercy, especially for women who, as victims of deep personal drama, decide to get rid of motherhood. In the year of mercy, I think, these words are also special to remind all parties that are taking part in this debate. I would like to ask the representatives of the legislative initiative tightening up the 1993 legislation, whether it is possible to discuss in committees how far you can withdraw from your proposal. I believe that two points are inviolable in the 1993 Act for the greatest protection of life, not for the protection of compromise, but for the protection of life. I am talking about the point that pregnancy poses a threat to the life or health of a pregnant woman and that there is a reasonable suspicion that pregnancy was caused by an illegal act. [[Terrible things.]] I would like us to open a discussion, just a question of whether it is possible, on the second point of the current law - when prenatal studies or other medical conditions indicate a high probability of severe and irreversible impairment of the foetus or an incurable life-threatening disease. [[So healthy can be killed?]] The question is whether you allow modifications in your project in this case or if you are able to withdraw from the women's prison sentence. [[That's bullshit.]] This is, I think, very important for many people who have conservative views. And conservatives do not assume - I refer here to Mrs Barbara Nowacka - that people are evil. No conservatism assumes this at the outset or at any point that people are evil. When we are able to talk about it normally and work in committees, we can improve the bill. I am afraid that today this space for normal discussion is in some way limited. I also have a question for the representatives of the largest group, because it is a bit unfair to say: we will vote for two projects to go to further work, although with one of you most of you fundamentally disagree. [[Applause]] [[I said it.]] The Member has said so, but I think it is wrong. Of course, you'll judge it in your own consciences, but giving some opportunity to an initiative that you completely disagree with, saying that it will be accepted that it will be overworked, is... [[It's hypocritical.]] ...not fair to those people who signed up for this project. [[Applause]] [[But we don't throw it in the trash like you do.]] I disagree with the liberal project, which is why I am filing a motion to reject it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] As for the tightening project, I expect answers to questions. I would like to work on it if it would be possible to change only one point that I mentioned. But this will probably be the subject of further discussion. Therefore, if you have certain beliefs, you also have a system of values, which in this case is certainly very similar to that presented by the Polish People's Party, so that you can define yourself in the vote and do not have this party that is submitting the liberal project, that there will be some further work, because of course they will not be on this project. This project will be frozen and will never be adopted, at least in this High House. I do not know if you are able to vote - I do not think - a project tightening the provisions of the abortion bill in the form it was presented today. This is what Mr Latos was talking about, that he doesn't see a place to punish a woman with prison either. For this, I think, consent is generally denied. I would like us not to see the clause of conscience through the prism of bad behavior, the disgraceful behavior of individuals, doctors who committed unethical acts as something that should be limited in some way. And I say it as a doctor. I wouldn't want anyone to limit their conscience in any way. That's what they've done. The last 27 years, as soon as the abortion rules were tightened in 1989 in 1990, the legislation was amended. It is not wonderful, but today it protects life in the best way, and I do not think that we are in a position to be in agreement which would last longer than just one term, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To do something better. Once again, I ask all of you to be free to choose for each Member, to make a decision according to your conscience... [[It's guaranteed. Everybody said that.]] ...but also to respect differences and diversity and to respect decisions made by others. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u406	Mr President, I have a question. Did you file a motion to reject the 830 print? [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: I already explained that, no. 830.]] On behalf of the Circle of Members, European Democrats, please take the floor of Mr Michał Kaminski. There you go. [[Referendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u407	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am not the king of your consciences, said Zygmunt August to Members of the Polish Sejm... [[And you're not the king.]] ...and this statement was at the heart of what we are so proud of in Poland, our tolerance. When stacks were burning throughout Europe, when all of Europe was in religious wars, in Poland, and rightly boasted about it and the left, and the right hand, there were no such wars. [[There were stacks.]] If I am talking about this today, I am reminding you of the words of the great king, the Catholic king, Zygmunt August, the last Jagiellon, I am doing this because I think that today's debate we are having here is a debate that has been coming back since the beginning of Polish democracy. There are important opinions in this debate from different sides and these opinions need to be respected. I agree with what Mr Kosiniak-Kamish said. Yes, we must respect everyone's right to make this decision. That is why we, as a circle, call on all political forces to have this debate, perhaps once and for all, because it will probably never be settled once and for all... To give the Poles the floor on this matter. I see no reason why some will grant me, as Michael Kaminski, the right to vote in matters of morality as a Member of the Sejm and do not give me this right as a citizen of Joseph and my neighbours - some have liberal and others have conservative beliefs. I believe that Poles should take the floor in this matter. Moreover, if such a referendum were to take place, my colleagues and I will call for a compromise to be maintained, because this compromise... Please pay attention to a rather distinctive thing. Today we had two highly ideologically motivated projects here. One very liberal, the other ultraconservative. Please note that both the venerable representative of one and the venerable representative of the other committee have called this compromise, which has existed for 23 years, a rotten compromise. They said this compromise was wrong. And I think that he has some flaws, but he has contributed in Poland to the fact that abortion has ceased to be treated as one of the medical procedures, only began to be treated as a serious drama and a serious problem related to human life. You can't run from that either. It is too often used and played by politicians, which is why I believe that Poles should speak on this issue, speak in a referendum. I think everyone has an opinion on this. This is not a question that is far away for Poles. Everyone almost has an opinion on this. I think that Poles should speak on this issue because, in general, a referendum on such matters is important. Because I, to be honest, have a huge problem voting on matters that concern morality, because I often see a lot of hypocrisy in politics in these matters. I wonder why you're... After all, a year ago, the PiS club, like one husband, voted for a very restrictive draft abortion bill and you said that you voted yes because that is the position of the Church. I am not a theologian, but I have the impression that the position of the Church has not changed in this matter and is exactly the same as last year and 5 years ago. Now I'm wondering what game you're playing right now is the subject of abortion, that today we hear about sending both projects to committee, we hear that they're going to be frozen there. This is disrespect for both sides of this dispute, and some Catholic voters may be aware that they have simply been misled and that this subject... Then you voted for a very restrictive law because you knew it wouldn't come into force because you knew there was a different majority, and today you're playing it. Do not play such topics, trust Poles and give them the right to vote. That is why I believe that all political forces should sooner or later vote in favour of a referendum on this matter. This is also the position of the circle of European Democrats, which has existed since yesterday in our parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What's this?]] [[European Democrats?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u408	Thank you. I would ask Mr Kornel Morawiecki to speak on behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u409	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Do parents who have conceived a child with a severe developmental defect, a prognosis that foretells the suffering of this child, parents and their surroundings, we, legislators, have the right to force this child to be born? Life is a very important thing, but aren't it more important, good and evil? How can we decide? Saint Thomas of Aquinas, the forerunner of modern, modern Europe, 800 years ago raised such a question: What should you do if your conscience does not agree with the teaching of the Church? And he answered this question: "You must follow your conscience. We, from the Free and Solidarnia circle, will vote according to our conscience. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u410	Please take the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki, Mr Non-Associated Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Honourable Defenders of Life! Abortion is barbaric. It is barbaric, which was decreed, legalized in the 20th century, and will be remembered in history on an equal footing with practices such as mass genocide, such as gas chambers. Yes, it is also the effect of the squashed 20th century, which does not respect the right to life, human rights. [[Applause]] The activists, the sympathizers of the National Movement from the beginning were part of the campaign... [[They turned it on, they turned it on.]] ...joined the campaign to protect the conceived life. [[It's said in Polish: they turned it on. Polish patriot knows that.]] And it's obvious to every right Pole. It's obvious that abortion is a bad thing, that childicide is a bad thing. Only for the last few decades of the law, the liberal abortion law introduced - let us remind - by Communists in Stalinist times, more Poles were killed than during World War II. This is the scale of the tragedy, this is the magnitude of the tragedy that has become because of the liberal abortion bill. Ladies and gentlemen! Very simple - you can say: lasciviously - the case is from the point of view of ethics and science. On the ethics side, the imperative is to protect every innocent human life. This is an ethical imperative that a civilized state should submit to and write down in its law. [[Applause]] On the other hand, the question of science is settled, and today it is settled in a way that leaves no doubt when human life begins. It starts when it's fertilized. It is impossible to establish any other proven, certain moment in which human life begins, just like the moment when unique, unique DNA is created when a new human being is created. And that's why the ban on abortion, the ban on the murder of unborn babies comes from ethics and science. You don't even need to be a Catholic believer to support such a humanistic ban on abortion. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Several words have been made here, especially as regards the representatives of this initiative to increase opportunities, the availability of child murder. Those lies have to be overthrown. Those myths have to be overthrown. First of all, you're using the lying, finger-sucked so-called. data or statistics, or estimates of the number of underground, illegal abortions. That's a lie. What's the easiest way to verify a lie? Checking how many abortions were made, for example, during the period when abortion was in force on request in the 1990s, in 1996, when the 1993 Act was abolished for a year. How many abortions were there? 3,000, when abortion was restored on request, barbaric, most barbaric form. That's the first thing. Secondly, abortion is not just the death of a child. And this has already been shown today. Abortion is also an increased mortality of pregnant mothers. We need to be very clear about this. This is due to all statistics. Those who are in favour of abortion are not only in favour of killing children, but also in favour of the death of mothers who die as a result of these complications, as a result of these treatments, so-called. treatments. There's also data, statistics. In Poland, where we do not have health care at the same level as in the Western countries, the mortality rate of pregnant women is 3 out of 100,000. In Germany, where there is much more liberal law, it's 6, in England it's 9 out of 100,000. And in the United States, that's 14 out of 100,000. Yes, because abortion is linked to the mortality of pregnant women. That's right. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I will refer to the last lie or one of many, because these time frames allow me to refer only to some, i.e. to sexual education. Mrs. Nowacka is demanding that seven-year-olds teach sexual behavior, right? [[Voice from the room: Six-year-olds.]] Six-year-olds. Sexual education. [[Consciousness.]] Well, there you go. You're welcome. In the UK, sexual education and contraception from an early age... [[If you were studying, you wouldn't be saying things like that.]] ...are widely available. What are the statistics? You said the point was not to let teenagers get pregnant. The statistics are 21,000. pregnancy of teenagers in Poland for 2011, 95 thousand. in the UK. [[Only in Muslim families, sir.]] Almost five times more, and in the UK, ladies and gentlemen, she doesn't live five times. more people than in Poland, only 1/3 more people than in Poland. Percentage: 1,6% teen pregnancy in Poland, 4.9% in the UK. When it comes to HIV infection: 2.39 $100,000. in Poland and 13.26 in the UK. You could multiply these examples, statistics. All pro-abortion propaganda is based on a lie, and the protection of life is based on a simple ethical principle: not to kill the most innocent, those who demand the greatest protection. This is the standard of civilization, which Poland is one of the last defenders, but I have the impression that we can, as it was said at the forum in Krynica, be at the forefront of positive counter-revolution in our part of Europe, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And then all over the Western world. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, dear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u412	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr John Klaviter, also a non-associated Member, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u413	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Complainer! High Izbo! As a Member representing the Right of the Republic, I request that the citizens' draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood be rejected at first reading. The project is clearly in breach of Article. 38 of the Constitution in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 May 1997, which stated: The right to life is protected, including in the prenatal phase, and life in a democratic state of law must remain under constitutional protection at every stage of its development. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u414	Thank you very much. Circle of the European Parliament European Democrats remain 23 seconds. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz wants to use them. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u415	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Women should have a vote at least equal to men's. I agree with that argument. There are less than 1/3 women in the Seym in society - more than 50%, so only a referendum will allow women to have a voice about equal with men. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u416	Here you are, sir, in time. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 68 people on the list who want to ask questions. So here we go. Anyone else want to sign up, ladies and gentlemen? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time, ladies and gentlemen, is one and a half minutes. [[Voice from the room: Aaaa...]] Please observe this time, because I will be forced to turn off the microphone or I will reduce speaking time if you do not follow it. This is a little more than usual in asking questions, but because the subject is very difficult and we are discussing two projects, hence these 1.5 minutes. We begin with the Member of the Law and Justice Club, Anna Elizabeth Sobecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u417	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Recognizing the citizens' draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood, print No. 830, it is impossible to go indifferently against the wrong thesis contained in this project. The applicants have a populist slogan: My belly, my case. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] This is a fundamental error, because the conceived child is never a unified part of the mother's body, even though it has different genetic structures and is simply a separate being. That is why a mother cannot dispose of a child in her womb as freely as her belly. The abortion requested by the applicants is not only the murder of an unborn child, but it also causes a woman great harm. That's why I'm asking you, have you met with the problem of women with post-abortion syndrome? What kind of help do these women have? Why do you not report the tragic psychological and physical consequences of this procedure when proposing abortion? Why do you deny unborn children the fundamental right to life? Who gave you the right to decide about other people's lives? Stop messing with people's unborn lives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u418	Thank you, Member. Another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u419	It has an inalienable right to life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u420	Member, please leave the stand. Another question, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u421	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies! Dear Member, the tragic psychological and physical effects, perhaps even more tragic, can affect women when they are forced to give birth by force in these three difficult cases. That's one thing. Secondly, tightening the rules that have been presented here is not desirable by Poles and Poles. The proposed provisions, those which completely prohibit abortion, and even impose sentences up to 5 years in prison for the execution of abortion, are too restrictive, too strict, too severe. Why, then, dear applicants, do you not want to draw attention and listen to what the Poles think about this? Recent public opinion polls clearly show that 75% respondents allow abortion when pregnancy is a result of rape or endangers the life of the mother. At the same time, the same percentage does not accept abortion when it is to be caused by a mother's poor physical condition or simply because she is not ready to raise a child. Why do you not want to take these votes into account, and at all costs you want to take away the Polish people's ability to decide what to do in such difficult situations when their lives are at stake? I ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u422	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs Anna Maria Siarkowska, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the representative of the civil committee proposing a virtually unlimited possibility of killing children before birth. Why do you use the term "abortion underground"? Well, underground, ma'am, that was independence, and that's crime, abortion crime, and crime is being fought. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] If your statistics on high levels of abortion crime are true, then the State is obliged to create efficient law enforcement agencies capable of combating this type of crime. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Logical. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[To jail, everyone.]] Unfortunately, some groups of people are discriminated against by Polish law today, denying them full protection of life. They're allowed to be killed. Therefore, we must say clearly: all discrimination, also due to age, health or circumstances of conception, must finally be abolished in Poland. Therefore, on behalf of the Republican Group of Members, I would like to express my sincere thanks to Mr Kosiniak-Kamish for his request to reject the pro-abortion project at first reading on behalf of PSL. Of course, we will support this proposal. As regards the proposal giving full right to life to all Polish citizens, this proposal should be further examined in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u424	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u425	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The question to project designers is "Stop abortion." The child is conceived by a human being from the time of the mating of the female and male reproductive cells. Whoever causes the involuntary death of the conceived child is punishable by imprisonment up to the age of 3. The doctor does not commit a crime only if he takes the action necessary to lift the immediate threat to his mother's life. These are all the records of this bill. Do I understand correctly that these three records are real: elimination of in vitro, elimination of prenatal tests, elimination of treatment for a woman with cancer, if at this stage of the disease does not directly threaten her death and the treatment threatens miscarriage? It is a risk that your doctor will think twice before taking any treatment in a pregnant woman, which may result in a worsening of her health or death. This bill is hell not only for women, but for families. This bill is an ideological trap for women who no longer have the right to decide about their bodies, and now they may lose even the right to fight for their health and their unborn child. Isn't it better to bet on education and contraception, on reason, not ideology? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u426	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Pasławska, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u427	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I think that today, in this discussion, many of my fellow Members have many dilemmas, they have to answer in their conscience how they intend to vote. But I want you to know that many gynecologists think that a woman will do anything to have a baby, and a woman will do anything to make sure that she doesn't have a baby. Therefore, my question is about the purpose of this law. Do you really - I am addressing the Members of the applicants - want to protect your life, or can you simply fulfill your ambitions, perhaps realize some electoral promises made by the Law and Justice? [[It's a citizen's project, Mrs. Ulu.]] I'd like to ask you how you're going to pursue women. Is it really possible for your heads to have the idea of putting women in jail for their pregnancy? Ladies and gentlemen! In Poland abortion is prohibited. [[Lost thread.]] I remind you, in Poland abortion is banned, but three absolutely unique situations are allowed - exceptional for women, for families. These situations are regulated by the law today. If a woman, if a family decides to have a pregnancy, then it is [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a really special situation... [[It's not a good performance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u428	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u429	...very difficult for families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u430	I would ask you to ask Mr Robert Winnicki, an independent Member, a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the initiators of the "Stop abortion" initiative. There's a lot of controversy about women's criminality. Right now, we have automatic immunity. Could you please explain this matter? Is it so that such a provision, such an approach to abortion is typical for post-Soviet countries, that it was developed and justified by Ms Wolińska in the Polish legal system? Is it true that in the overwhelming majority of countries of the world, even in those countries where killing unborn children is partially allowed until a certain point or in connection with certain conditions, even there, at a time when it is already for example. after the third month, when these requirements are not met, is the criminality of women also allowed? And is it true that in a project prepared by Ordo Iuris it is solved in such a way that the judge can at any time waive the punishment of a woman? Today, however, we are dealing with automatic impunity, regardless of the context, even if it is a truly perfidious crime, also in the performance of this mother. Could you light that up, please? And respect for you, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Władysława Kosiniak-Kamisha...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u432	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u433	...in connection with his request. [[What do you need it for, Vladek?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u434	I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Uściński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u435	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the dispute concerning the protection of the lives of unborn children comes down to a dispute about human rights and who is to have the fullness of those rights and who is not. I will refer to the applicants for an abortion project, which assumes the possibility of killing unborn children. Your project - not like Mrs Barbara said - is not a project that gives women the opportunity to decide if they will become mothers. It's a project that gives women the opportunity to decide whether they're going to be the mothers of a living child or a child who's been killed. Hitler has usurped the right to decide who's human and who's underhuman, and so do you. Who gave you the right to decide who is a man with full rights and who is only a man without a right to life? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u436	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u437	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In every parliamentary term, the Act on abortion returns: as an election game just before the elections, as a political game, and today it has returned as a great ideological dispute. Today is a debate on two civil projects: extremely conservative, which sentences women to five years in prison for abortion, and protects a rapist who can be punished for up to 6 months in prison, and extremely liberal. This is the beginning of an ideological dispute not only among women, but also among Poles. Around 500,000 people signed an abortion under the "Stop of Abortion" project. Women, under the project, let's save women around 250 thousand. Women. That's less than a million. Where are the other dozens of millions of women we don't hear here at all, don't we? I have a question for the applicants: Why do applicants want to increase the number of illegal and dangerous abortions for the lives of women and mothers while tightening the laws and regulations? Why - I also address the right side of the political scene - you also forget the position of sleep. President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński, who defended the so-called. The abortion compromise you're talking about today is rotten? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u438	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u439	I stress that it's the law... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...allows abortion...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u440	Member, please leave the stand. Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u441	...but in fact, the law in force is one of the most stringent acts of law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u442	Member, because I will have to apply coercive measures [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] and shorten the time of questioning if you do not observe this one and a half minutes. You're welcome. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Don't start with me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u444	It wasn't for you, sir, absolutely.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u445	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is really about the shape of Polish democracy, about what democracy we are supposed to live in. In a democracy that excludes from its space a woman who marginalizes women in a democracy that deprives them of their existential rights... [[Oh, Jesus.]] ...in a democracy that makes a woman's body a commodity? We're supposed to live in a democracy that makes a woman something that is an intellectual imagination, or maybe a nightmare? [[He's seeing things.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today it must be made clear that the cause of this confusion... [[A woman has a child inside her. Life, not something, life.]] ...the situation in which we have been for many, many years, is some literature that has been contained in the space of the Catholic Church. [[Good space.]] The Church is imposing on us values that are absurd, incompatible with our life's needs. [[The church prays for you, too, so appreciate it.]] The Church is pushing us into dangerous situations that are the subject of our conversation today. Because a woman has the right to decide if she wants to remove a child. [[And the baby to live.]] Neither the priest nor the bishop have that right. [[And every man has an inalienable right to life.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u446	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs Teresa Glenc, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union gives everyone the right to freedom of conscience. Also art. 53th Constitution guarantees us freedom of conscience. Moreover, in its judgment of 7 October 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal stated explicitly that the clause of conscience includes not only the right to refuse to provide services but also the lack of an obligation to indicate another doctor who would have carried them out. The proposal for a pro-abortion law requires doctors referring to conscience not only to inform about where the patient will make the so-called. abortion, but also entering into a contract with another doctor who will deprive the child of his life. How do the authors of the project agree with the Constitution, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the case law of the Court? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u448	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u449	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. Stop abortion. I believe that the premise on which the whole project is built is wrong because it assumes that the human conception begins in the fallopian tube at the time of the male and female cell connection. And from this assumption there are further misconceptions in the form of the need to protect life. The authors of the project consider that the protection of life is implemented only through the introduction of an abortion ban, regardless of any circumstances. However, the request for protection of life should be defined as an obligation for the State to respect the right of people to take autonomous decisions on procreation. For these decisions to be conscious and responsible, appropriate education is needed. In this respect, the project is absolutely silent. Although it mentions the obligation of government and local authorities to provide material assistance to those who are affected by the care of children with severe disability or illness, this obligation is, however, a follow-up. The project does not deal with prevention of informed parenting, it lacks provisions on access to knowledge, contraception [[♪ The bell ♪]] and free research. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u450	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Women in Poland are wise and responsible. Women in Poland can make their own decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't need anyone making these decisions for us. I have a question for the applicants of the 'Stop abortion' initiative: Why, in the name of your own unconfirmed beliefs, do you want to make sure that women are not able to decide about themselves? Why do you impose your own conscience on other consciences? Why do you want to decide for all Poles? Why is the conviction of a 12-year-old girl who was raped to have a child more moral for you than the right to decide women about herself? [[He's more moral than killing a baby, Monica.]] Why do you want to deprive couples who can't have children of their right to have in vitro children? Why are you going to hell for women? Ladies and gentlemen, the ban on abortion will not make abortion in Poland less. [[It will be.]] Women in Poland are really smart and can decide. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to do this for us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u452	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u453	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to start by saying that a complete ban is not a legal regulation. In addition, a complete ban causes a lack of state over this problem, and it will only expand the abortion underground. [[So let's let them steal, too.]] [[The gynecologist says. Listen, man.]] [[Are you talking to me? Then get up.]] In addition, this bill will first of all cause prenatal examinations to be discontinued, which are not used to seek indications for the removal of pregnancy, but so that every year thousands of sick children who are diagnosed with prenatal examination of heart defects, spinal bifidas, gastrointestinal defects can be operated on in the womb... [[And you want to decide that.]] And that's what prenatal research is talking about. In addition, every year, people, there are about 50 and 60 thousand. spontaneous abortions, which none of us have an influence on, do not have a patient's participation there, do not have a contribution to health care. [[That's bullshit.]] In connection with this tightened bill, do these 50,000. Will women be suspected of having an abortion and being prosecuted legally? For this reason, do the 50,000. abortions that have not been performed or caused by spontaneous miscarriage, doctors who will help these patients to make the complications as small as possible will also be prosecuted as a result of suspicion of abortion? This can't be right. The law you are proposing will be the law that applies in Malta, Chile, El Salvador, Guatemala or Nicaragua. I think that our Polish women, wise and understanding, did not deserve it. [[Applause]] [[And so are our children.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u455	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! None of us have any doubt that every abortion is an absolute drama. Neither of us, I think, has any doubt that abortion can never be a contraceptive. I have a question for the applicants of the "Stop abortion" project. Do you really think that a total ban on abortion will lead to the fact that abortions will not be carried out in Poland? The answer is simple: no, you do not think so, you know very well that abortions will continue to be illegal under this right, that the Polish people will go to Germany or other countries where it is possible. What does that mean? You're hypocrites because you don't want to protect the lives of unborn children. There is no word in this project about sexual education, which is fundamental in these matters, about contraception, about psychological support for women. You just want to build a ideological state, and that's the law you want to wash your hypocritical hands with. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u456	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Nobletka, Club Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u457	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland is a proud co-author of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This international document of 1989, as previously adopted the Declaration of the Rights of the Child of 1959, contains the following statement: The child needs special care and care, including adequate legal protection, both from and after birth, because of his or her physical and mental immaturity. According to Art. 9 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland is obliged to respect its binding international law. Your abortion project takes away all rights from your children before birth. As contrary to the international obligations of Poland, it should be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]] Would you like to denounce the Convention on the Rights of the Child in order to allow the killing of children in general? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u458	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u459	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Representative! The subject of abortion has always caused a lot of controversy and disputes. The current compromise gives the woman and her family the opportunity to make a decision, the best decision for them. The compromise currently underway doesn't force anyone to do anything. It's not perfect, it's true. July 5th this year The daylight saw a project which was a ban on abortion and divided Poles again. The criminal restrictions planned in the draft law on abortion according to the opinion of many people will have negative consequences not only for women, but for society as a whole, which will suddenly wake up in a police state, in a country with a special branch of abortion police. The detection of rape will decrease because raped women won't want to report to the police in fear of consequences. According to the project, a woman will be held liable for miscarriage. This is an unacceptable situation, but unfortunately possible due to a lack of clear wording in the complex draft, which would allow for a clear distinction between intentional action and involuntary action. About 400,000 were collected under the civic project. signatures, and Poles themselves are several million. Ladies and gentlemen, 84, 76, 74, 61% respectively [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poles and Poles believe that abortion should be prohibited... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...so please inform me if you will allow the Poles a referendum on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u460	Thank you very much, Member. Please leave the podium. Please, Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u461	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! The Constitution of the Republic of Poland ensures freedom and human rights, security of citizens and legal protection of life. In view of the proposed total ban on abortion, I would like to ask: How does the applicant of the "Abortion Stop" project intend to ensure that these rights are implemented in the case of women? Is the law compatible with EU law? And what about the right to treatment? You said the bill guarantees prenatal examination and custody of the mother. At which point? In my opinion, it completely excludes such care and prenatal examinations. [[At which point?]] Dear Members of PiS, Kukiz Club15, if you do not wish to remove the pregnancy, do not remove it, but do not force Poles to such a cruel law. [[What are you saying?]] Dear Members, do not take Poland back to the Middle Ages. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Who are these people? Middle Ages.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u462	Mr Kurzepa, a club called Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u463	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The question to the authors of the project is "Stop abortion" and such an autoreflexia. Couldn't something more beautiful have happened to us in this House than a debate on the affirmation of life, [[Applause]] All the more so among those who, in their oath of the Message, appealed to the Lord God? Thus, our Christian radicalism is justified by the fidelity of the Decalogue, but it also requires radicalism in the daily support of rape victims, the birth of children with various dysfunctions and other cases. Let us therefore make sure that the slogan of Jesus'shame can be filled with protection of life from conception to the end of the day and natural death, both in the perspective of family life, institutional life and the community of the nation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u464	Thank you very much. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Club Civic Platform. There is no Member. In that case, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u465	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! I have a question: Who among you is in favour of adopting a bill that forces a child without lungs, kidneys, facial bones to be born with certainty that this child will die in agony within an hour of birth? Who's in favor of this bill? [[It's better to kill.]] [[Of course it's me.]] [[If you can live without a brain?]] Who's in favor of a bill that's gonna force a 13-year-old girl raped by her father to have a baby? Who's in favor of this bill? Please, really think about it before you press the button before you vote on this bill. I believe that if I asked you this question in the clowns, you would know how to answer it according to your conscience. Here you will decide politically, but I also want to believe that you will find enough courage in yourself to decide according to the welfare of women... [[The baby. According to my own conscience.]] [[A human being.]] ...which are exposed to traumatic situations. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Let me add one more thing. Christ was behind the poor. The abortion was, it is, and it will be. This bill won't rule her out. It'll just make poor women... [[What does that have to do with anything?]] [[An abortion? Christ was for abortion?]] ...will be performed in an abortion underground, and women rich in German clinics. That's all that's gonna change, that's all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u466	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u467	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the representatives of the applicants of the Act I'd like you to show me in the current law some article that forces anyone in any situation to have an abortion or commands it to do so. If you find an article like this, I'll understand that you were right to offer it, but I know you won't find an article like this. So I have another question: Who gave you the moral right to appeal to the conscience of Polish women by means of a prison sentence? Who gave you the moral right to despise people, to despise women, and to turn a blind eye to rapists, to those who use abortions, to profit from abortions in gynecology or foreign clinics? And to Mrs Barbara Nowacka I have just this question: could you really expect an initiative that would be more than just an initiative [[♪ The bell ♪]] A declaration of war?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u468	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u469	'Cause you know this bill is definitely... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...will not see the light of day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u470	You're welcome. Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Wojciech Buczak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u471	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Initiators of the Act, stop abortion! First of all, the question to you: Does the draft law on abortion ensure that everyone is equal to the law? Why am I asking this question? Because there is quite a common consensus that the limits of our rights determine the inviolability of the rights of another human being. It is obvious that the moment of conception is the beginning of human life, so killing a conceived, yet unborn man, in a dramatic way deprives him of the fundamental right to life. The great politician and noble man, to whom we Poles owe a great deal, Ronald Reagan, is the author of a very simple opinion which exposes the hypocrisy of the supporters of abortion. He said, "I've noticed that everyone who supports abortion... [[They were born.]] ...they were born. [[Applause]] False arguments are used during the debate on life protection, among others. that abortion is a medical procedure. I completely disagree with this statement, because health care, medicine saves lives, its job is to treat, to help poor people, not to kill. That's why [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is my question to the authors of the project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u472	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u473	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Tomasz Latos said: Let us put an end to this hypocrisy. There are three cases where you can, when abortion is allowed, traumatic cases. I would like to ask your fellow Members. If this were the case with your women, your wives, your daughters, your granddaughters - you don't have to have them. so much imagination as to imagine that any of these women can happen - if you really could say to them then: dear, dear woman, but the most important thing is... [[Wife.]] ...pregnancy? Or is it different? Just 3 seconds to click and enter, see where the abortion tourism is, where it can be done in comfortable conditions. Maybe... [[How do you know that?]] ...tonight you don't have to face a decision like this, but you have the kind of comfort you don't give other women. That's why... [[Voice from the room: Life is the most important thing.]] The most important thing is the life, Commissioner, also the life of women. I'd like to see one of the gentlemen who actually, according to what you're saying today, will tell his woman: it's more important for me to be pregnant than your life. [[Not pregnancy, child.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[This isn't about the pregnancy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u474	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u475	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Applicants! High Izbo! Constitution in Article. 38 provides every man with legal protection of life, and the Constitutional Tribunal ruled in 1997 that human life has become a constitutionally protected value since its inception. This also applies to the prenatal phase. Art. 32 of the Constitution says: Everyone is equal to the law. Your abortion project denies the fundamental value of human life, contradicts our constitution and contradicts the natural character of the right to life. Since it is obvious that it is contrary to the basic law, it should be rejected at first reading. The Sejm shouldn't be taking care of him at all. Why are you questioning fundamental issues like the protection of life from conception? I will remind you of some words, especially Mr Mieszkowski: Where it comes to defending the unborn, there is no need to refer to the problem of faith or unbelief. All you have to do is be human. These are the words of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. With regard to the "Stop of abortion' project, it introduces an obligation on the state and local government to support the family and mothers who are now being offered abortion. I have a question. What concrete actions would follow this commitment? And I will also stress that abortion not only destroys the life of the child, but also the health of the mother and her life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u476	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Drozd will ask another question, club Law and Justice. Excuse me, my fellow Member, the Civic Platform Club. [[And the platform, please apologize.]] [[Please apologize to us, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u477	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I didn't hear you. I think it's a good thing I didn't hear. An article already cited today. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Constitution says: Everyone is given freedom of conscience and religion. So do you think that the current compromise that bans abortion does not apply the Constitution? You said that the applicant of the draft law "Stop abortion" was the most important thing in life. So why do you think politicians should decide whose life is more important when they take this project? Because what would you say to a mother of two, looking her in the eye, a mother who's expecting a third child, and finding out that the fetus is badly damaged, and any prognosis indicates that even when this child is born, she won't be alive, but the pregnancy also threatens that mother's life? What would you say to that mother? What about an ectopic pregnancy woman? It's also a child conceived according to your bill. Your bill condemns her to death. And as you say, you're fighting for your lives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u478	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Club Law and Justice. There isn't. Then it is Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club. Now I'm not wrong. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u479	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I'd like to start by correcting the lie of the PiS, one of the many lies of the PiS. I would like to remind you that, with regard to the citizens' projects under the PO-PSL regime, 19 civil projects have had at least two readings and three of these projects have been signed by the President and have entered into force. So far, you can't boast of a single civic project that effectively... [[Mr Latos, listen to me.]] ...work in the Sejm would be completed. [[Applause]] Mr Latos spoke very much... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...about respect for citizens, about civic projects. I would like to remind you that in this term of office more than 70% the draft laws of the PiS shall be carried out without any public consultation. That's not the kind of practice we've had so far. And I think that respect for... [[Get to the point.]] ...oppositions to citizens are expressed very clearly today by Mr Piotr Kalet, who sits in the first place and in a very inelegant way refers to the Members of the opposition who speak from the speaker. [[A knight.]] [[I'm watching you.]] It's just unacceptable. [[Applause]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the votes in the previous term, when the PiS was in opposition, about the votes of Prime Minister Szydło. Act on the treatment of in vitro infertility - against. Punishment for in vitro use - pro. Ratification of the anti-violence convention - against. Total ban on abortion - pro. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u480	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u481	Don't wash your eyes today...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u482	Mr Jerzy Małecki...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u483	...citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u484	...law and justice club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u485	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! I have a question for the initiators of the "Stop abortion" project. There is much talk about it, there are many myths in the context of your project about prenatal research. Does the "Abortion Stop" project affect access to prenatal research in any way? And also a question for the second initiative committee. Holy Mother Teresa of Calcutta said that abortion is the biggest threat to peace because it's murder, murder. The biggest problem facing Poland is the problem of demography. Is this how you fight this problem? Get rid of the sick, the little, the poor? Is this the way of Poland? I hope not. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u486	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Henczyca, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u487	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion that's going on here in this room is completely incomprehensible to me. I'm listening and I don't believe it, because that's not how this discussion should be. I see a lot of gentlemen in this room, especially on the right, who speak on matters they shouldn't. Me and many millions of women don't want you to decide our lives. You have no right to do that, especially the law... [[About the unborn life...]] ...moral. Your participation in the procreation process is actually incidental and one-off. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You'll never be pregnant or born. Plus... [[How do you know?]] ...you don't actually have any consequences if you abandon your children. And you men are the perpetrators of rapes and unwanted pregnancies. And the fact that the "Stop Abortion" project completely depreciates the value of a woman's life is completely shocking. Only in the mind of a madman could an idea arise to treat women as objects, incubators and free creatures. It is the barbarism of the 21st century and women cannot agree to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[But it was women who made this project, Bożenka.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u488	Here's another question. Mr Adam Oldakowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u489	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant's representative of the abortion project. Even Prof. Romuald Dębski, interviewed in an interview by Magdalena Ragimonti... [[Rigamonti.]] Rigamonti, I'm sorry. ...from which moment there is a man... [[Say it again.]] ...he answered without hesitation: From the beginning, he is human. I have no doubt. And Dr. Marzena Dębska added that the human being has been at every stage since the egg cell connects to the sperm. That's how a child is defined in the project "Stop abortion." [[Is that what Professor Dębski said? I don't believe it.]] Yes, sir. On the other hand, your project refuses the smallest child, before his birth, any rights. This is contrary not only to the constitution, medicine and human science, but also to common sense. Such a project should be rejected at first reading. Do you see the possibility of defining a child as a human from the moment of conception, according to scientists, including Prof. Dębski? I also have a question for the representatives of the applicants of the project "Stop abortion." For what reason does the proposal remove from the bill the grounds for Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u490	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch. There isn't. Mr Jan Dziedziczak. There isn't. [[There it is, there it is.]] Oh, I'm sorry. [[I'm here.]] [[Voice from the room: He's getting ready.]] Hello, then, and welcome to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u491	Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u492	The Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u493	High Izbo! Saint John Paul II in Kalisz, who has been honored to represent for almost 10 years, said: "The right to life is not just a matter of worldview, it is not only a religious law, but it is a human right. The right to life, the right for everyone to be born, is a fundamental human right. And now we're debating whether it's the law that everyone can have or only some can have. The current law of this right does not give some. He doesn't give it to people who are accused, so to speak, that they may be disabled. A few hundred of these people are killed a year. They do not have this protection because they may be disabled. It's not for anyone conceived as a result of a forbidden act. This is a classic example of discrimination. Because, in fact, given the achievements of science, we have no doubt that man arises as a result of conception, that he is a unique human being, and therefore what is now in force, it is clearly said that if you are disabled, then at some stage of your life, at this early stage, you do not have the same rights as a healthy person, you do not have the right to life, this basic right that if you are conceived as a result of rape, then at some stage of your life... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u494	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u495	...you have no right like the others.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u496	And the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u497	We want to change it, we want to... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u498	...I'll ask Mr Simon Ziółkowski, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u499	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles were asked whether the existing law regulating the possibility of abortion should be amended. 14% Poles are in favor of tightening, 25% - for easing, for leaving unchanged - 46%. Law and Justice were supposed to listen. Why do you want to support changes that are so dramatically different from the expectations of our compatriots? Why do you want to keep sharing our country's citizens? Poles are smart, let us give them a choice, not warrants and punishments. Abortion is a drama for any woman who will be subjected to it. As men, we will never understand the feelings that accompany a pregnant woman. The sad thing is, men have the most to say. Women should be mostly involved in this debate. Let's not treat women like walking incubators who don't have any rights. [[Applause]] [[But men have a contribution, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u500	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Club Law and Justice. That's another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u501	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First to Mr Mieszkowski, who said here that it was the Church who imposed something on us: Mr, I will complete your shortcomings. The Church is a community of faithful people, it is us, believers. Second thing. Here, in this House, many people have for some years referred to John Paul's response to the situation. II. It's St. John Paul II said that a nation that kills its own children is a nation without a future. It's worth remembering. On the other hand, I have the following question to the applicant country of the Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u502	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Szumilas, Civic Platform Club. I don't see a Member. In that case, Mr Konrad Głębocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u503	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Question to applicants: Is it true that the increasing number of legal abortions in Poland is the result of increasing interpretation of current rules? Mother Teresa of Calcutta once said, "If a mother has the right to kill her own child, what will stop us from killing each other?" It's not a question of religion, it's a question of our humanity. I'm not in favour of punishing women, but there can't be a right to abortion because it's a right to barbarism to kill your own children. I appeal to all who today have conceived a child for nothing: may you someday consider it an invaluable gift, that you may consider life an invaluable gift. The state is modern when it protects every citizen when it protects life from conception. The state, on the other hand, is backwards when it despises life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u504	Thank you very much. Mrs Halina Szydłoko, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u505	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question for applicants demanding the right to abortion: Is a pregnant woman and her unborn child one human being or two separate human beings? This question is put in the context of the often repeated thesis that a woman has the right to decide for herself. About yourself - yes, but the child is a separate being. My next question is: Why is a criminal, a criminal who rapes a criminal, sentenced to prison, and an innocent child sentenced to death? Finally, I would like to draw attention to the great hypocrisy. We all agree - I hope we all agree - that a sick person, a disabled person is as valuable as a healthy person. Yeah, except some people think it only applies to those born. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u506	Thank you very much. Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club Law and Justice. There isn't any either. Mr Tomasz Latos, the Law and Justice Club. [[Voice from the room: What about Sławomir Nitras?]] Oh, I'm sorry. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform. You're welcome. [[Yeah, he's got it.]] We didn't know if you'd crossed yourself out or Mrs Mucha...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u507	Thank you, Marshal. The first brief remark to Mr Winnicki: in Polish we say to include, not to mention, and every true Polish patriot knows that. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Let me express my opinion that the compromise we have made in Poland is accepted by a large majority of society. And in many European countries - even on the basis of the experience of a Member of the European Parliament in the past - this is a model for a civilization solution. With great respect and really great sympathy I refer to Mrs Barbara Nowacka. I remember that famous quote from Olympia de Gouges. Besides, feminist ideals are to me as a man who has two daughters, very close... [[Voice from the room: As a woman.]] ...but I'd like to say to you, today there's no problem putting up gallows. No one in a civilized world today has the right to hang in a gallows. Therefore, this quote is not about, because the standards of civilization are slightly different. Abortion on request is not a modern standard of civilization. I also have a question for the honourable Mrs Joanna Banasiuk: Do you know what has ended with restrictive provisions similar to those you propose in Ireland and Spain? If, in Poland, the rules are liberalized in some reaction, will you feel remorse or, on the contrary, will you continue to resolve this problem bravely? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u508	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomasz Latos, club of law and justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u509	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have a question for you, Dr. Banasiuk. I would like to ask, because they appeared here during the debate untrue - that is my belief, because I have carefully read the project - information about the alleged obstruction, preventing the use of prenatal research. I think it's worth lying about, the more that prenatal research, of course, as someone wants and thinks, can serve the wrong cause, but they can serve in very many cases a good cause. Numerous examples of numerous medical procedures can be given when surgery is still performed intrauterinely, lifesaving procedures that would be impossible without prenatal diagnostics, leading to the death of a newly conceived child. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u510	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u511	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed draft anti-abortion law, in addition to the significant modification of the principles of protection of the human foetus, removes the provision on access to information and prenatal research from the law. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] Although the proposed law does not explicitly prohibit such diagnostics, it certainly poses a significant risk that doctors will in practice refuse to carry out certain prenatal tests, fearing any liability if suspected that they might have contributed to the miscarriage. Nor can it be excluded that, in some cases, prenatal examinations, in particular those carried out in the field of detection of incurable defects in foetal life, will be considered unobtrusive and unnecessary once the proposed law enters into force. This in turn not only deprives parents of the right to information about their child's health in the light of the current state of medical knowledge and technology, reducing the possibility of a timely medical response, but also hinders proper preparation for future care of the sick offspring. Therefore, I would like to ask the project designers to stop abortion, asking them to explain how, if the proposed amendment enters into force, parents' right to information about the health of the child, including before birth, using all available medical techniques, will be guaranteed in practice, so that this legislative solution does not turn against the welfare of the conceived children and their parents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u512	Mrs Anna Milczanowska... And thank you, Member. ...now the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u513	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ordo Iuris Institute for Legal Culture! Thank you very much for this bill, under which I signed myself as a citizen of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, the most children with Down syndrome are now being killed. I'm the mother of a child with Down syndrome, and I assure you, it's not suffering, it's love. [[Applause]] I am dealing with parents of children with even greater illnesses and so that you can see how much love and care they put in each day so that these children can live happily every day with them. I have a question for the bill designers: Are you vouching for the fact that the "Stop of abortion" project will create the right legal framework for full protection of life in Poland? That he'd keep the kids safe and take good care of their moms? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u514	Please, another question will be asked by Mr Killion Munyama, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u515	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From this debate, it can be concluded that men do not have much to say about this, but of course we would also like to support women in this debate. Pay attention to the statistics. Namely every other adult Pole, or 50% , opposes the right to abortion, but for the total prohibition of abortion there are every seven respondents, or 14% and more than 1/3 of the respondents, or about 36%, say that there should be exceptions to it. At the same time, almost half of the respondents, i.e. almost 47%, believe that abortion should be allowed. In this group, 7% the respondents declare their support for abortion without any restrictions, and 38% is in favour of certain restrictions. So... [[Voice from the room: What?]] ...if we look at these statistics, it turns out that the compromise that has been reached so far is simply a good compromise. Therefore, I have a question: Who is disturbed by today's compromise that exists? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u516	Thank you, sir. Another question, Mr. Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u517	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! What terrible crime does this unnamed little man commit that his mother, his father, his grandmother, his grandfather, his brother, or sister demand for him the highest penalty, the death penalty? And he dared to knock on his parents' consciousness and say, "Mom, Dad, here I am." This is his crime. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said here today, many quotations have been made - among others. John Paul II, St. John Paul II, also Mother Teresa of Calcutta. I am also particularly obliged to uphold these quotations, because John Paul II spoke these wonderful words in my hometown, Kalisz. Now I would like to ask you a question, but I would also like to ask the applicants of the project, which is very liberalising the rules. Aren't you afraid of a question from your children, which may have already been asked or will be asked in the future, children who may be watching today's debate or replaying it someday - that your children will stand before you and ask you a question: Mom, Dad, or maybe you, as usual, wanted to kill me, did you ever want to kill me? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u518	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform Club. Please ask me to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u519	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Short two questions: If the doctor tries to treat the prenatal fetus and attempts to do so, contrary to the intention of the doctor, he will end up having a miscarriage, will this doctor go to prison? Are applicants of a restrictive project aware that if the bill enters into force in the proposed form, doctors will stop treating children who remain in the womb during pregnancy? With every gynecologist or obstetrician, do you want to put up a guard and who will be? So, aren't there gonna be gynecologists just prosecutors after the adoption of the pregnancy bill? There's a fashion for quotes today, so I'm gonna end with a quote too. Professor Józef Tischner said so about himself: Sometimes I laugh that I am a man first, then a philosopher, and only then I am a priest. And that's probably why, in that order, in answer to the first question, he answered the second question... Inquired: What is the opinion of the professor on abortion, he replied: Such as the opinion of the woman who comes to me in confession. Let's be in the middle of a vote... Let each of us be human in the course of the vote. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Beautiful.]] [[Right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u520	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u521	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First two questions to project designers from print No. 784. Is it true that about 60% Poles support the total ban on abortion, with the option to save their mother's life? [[That's not true.]] Second question. There is such a belief that the introduction of rules to protect the life conceived will increase support for abortion. Can this thesis be confirmed on the basis of the experience available, or is it quite the opposite? A question for the Minister. In view of the deletions envisaged by this project, there is a presumption that prenatal research will be compromised. Can you confirm this or deny it on the basis of health regulations? Ladies and gentlemen, short notice. Recently, a specific comment has been made on the Internet on this debate. The map of Poland is shown, on which are marked nursing homes run by feminist organizations. There's not one such object on this map. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u522	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u523	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's parliamentary debate is about the fundamental issue of human life. While some are in favour of a total ban on abortion, others are in favour of total freedom in this regard. In fact, our discussion is not a legal imbalance, it is not a medical imbalance, but a much more serious issue - it is a question of responsibility and a question of conscience. I would therefore like to ask the parties to the dispute: prohibit abortion? Okay, just explain to me why you want to be the owners of other people's consciences. Give grown-ups a chance to discuss life's dilemmas in peace and quiet. You refer to faith - natural law, religion. I'll do the same. Perhaps it is worth listening to the words of Blessed Cardinal John Henry Newman, who spoke of a toast for his conscience. On the other hand, I address the supporters of liberalisation. Don't you think you're giving your mothers a false belief about freedom? It's deluded, because if a woman has an unlimited right to abort a pregnancy, then who's gonna stop you or me from using violence against another person, even by killing him. And don't tell me it's demagogy, it's just logic that you and I believe deeply in. In addition, following the words of Mr Latos, who, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, recommends that both projects be directed to committee work, I wonder what the actual opinion of the PiS club is, since in the speeches of a dozen Members, I hear that the draft law liberalising abortion should be rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, make up your mind. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We have freedom of vote and freedom of conscience.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u524	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u525	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Abortion is a hell for children first. Let us not forget that this is hell for women as well. As long as it's legal, the doctors will encourage her, and the loved ones may force their mothers to do so. I would like to stress that post-abortion has a very negative effect on women's psyche, which is not said, and what is medically stated and probably Dr. Banasiuk can confirm that. After an abortion, six times more women commit suicide, and 80% of women commit suicide. of them suffer pathological remorse, which makes them unable to live normally. Instead of saving women from the hell of abortion, you want to put them through a nightmare. Why do you want to condemn more women to the trauma of abortion? Finally, one important statement, which had already been made from this speaker, was made by Wojtek Buczak. Abortion is supported by all those who have already been born. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u526	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Monika Wielichowska will ask another question, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u527	Saying that a total ban on abortion will solve the problem of unwanted pregnancies is like throwing a bill in the trash, which is supposed to make the commitment disappear, or when we close our eyes and think we've become invisible. You can say the water in the tap isn't wet. You could say that Copernicus was wrong. And that it is the sun that revolves around the Earth. However, the facts will not change - abortion was, is and will be. The abortion underground - it was, it is, and it will be. You can't force women to be heroic, you can't order them to give birth to children with severe flaws. After all, it is not lawful for them to have children conceived as a result of rape. The Amnesty International report, in short, says that tightening the law will lead to human rights violations. Is he familiar to you? Why would any woman who has complications during pregnancy or miscarriage be treated as a potential criminal, like a potential criminal? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u528	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Club Law and Justice. That's another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u529	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The citizens' draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood, print No. 830, is a project submitted, in my opinion, by modern barbarians, for whom conceived life is only an embryo which is not a subject of rights, which can be deprived of life without any restrictions. Recently the Polish Sejm adopted the so-called. The 500+ law, the main theme of which was the creation of mechanisms to encourage children and young people to decide on their next children. In a situation of great demographic crisis - I know from conversations with many people - it brings great joy to see pregnant women on the streets and to see more children born in maternity wards. This notified project - I thought that something like this would not be possible in Poland - was a return to the idea of getting rid of a child conceived on the basis of getting rid of a technical problem. My question to the applicants is: Why do we not call the Committee of the Legislative Initiative "Let's save women" in line with what this law really means, so let's get rid of the life of unborn children? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u530	Thank you very much, sir. Anna Wasilewska will ask another question, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u531	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Abortion is a drama for every woman, but I, when I was working at school, was the principal of my years, and I had to deal with parents of children who were deeply retarded, children with Down syndrome. It is true that some children are loved, but I assure you - yes, ma'am - in some houses this is a real drama. You say stop abortion. [[Kill them now?]] Nobody's talking about killing. You say stop abortion. Why don't you at least allow birth control? In Sweden, in one of the living areas, they received universal access to contraception. The number of abortions decreased three times. Is your goal really to reduce the number of abortions? If so, why are you so opposed to spreading and sharing contraception? Please, give me a chance to make every woman's decision in her conscience. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Where's the father?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u532	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u533	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill liberalizing the abortion bill allowing the mass killing of unborn children for me as a Catholic is completely unacceptable. Following the voice of the Church, I declare that life must be protected from its conception, because already there is a man. The whole project is for me to refuse. They are particularly shocked by the proposal that abortion could be performed without medical supervision. That could be dangerous for women. On the argument of the designers that if we do not accept this project, the abortion underground will increase, the evidence is insufficient. Question: "How will the authors of the project explain the alleged concern about women's health when it comes to the proposed solution?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u534	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform Club. That's another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u535	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We have a proposal for a social initiative act, a stop abortion. Let's run into the future. Year 2020, December 10th. People from all over the world are participating in the letter marathon for Amnesty International, this time for the release of Catherine, who was convicted of an illegal abortion that was conceived as a result of an abortion... [[God, learn to read.]] ...which was conceived as a result of incest rape. Kasia was only 16. I can read, ma'am. [[Yes? Not really.]] [[Poems maybe you could write.]] Margaret gave birth to a child who lived only a few minutes. It's been three years since these events, and Margaret still has to take counseling from a psychologist, he's been diagnosed with severe depression. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a vision of a state that has the good of its citizens for nothing. It's a vision of the State of Law and Justice. Is this the life of Polish smart women, women who love children? What do you want to punish them for? [[If she had an abortion, she would have committed suicide.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u536	Is that the end of the speech, Madam Member?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u537	Thank you very much. Please come outside and have a chat. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: On your solo.]] [[Voice from the hall: Solo, it's me, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u538	In that case, Mr Wiesław Krajewski, Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy. In that case, Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u539	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think any discussion can lead to enrichment and some conclusions. Only when it is organized, and it is clear that in this Chamber we are mixing order, first of all legal order with ethical order and its particular variety - religious order, and this is not the same. Many Members, especially in support of a restrictive project tightening up the anti-abortion rules, rely on the teachings of the Church, especially on how they will vote. [[Voice from the room: To the right to life.]] For the teachings of the Church. In the context of the vote, quoting, for example, the Prime Minister that she will vote according to the teaching of the Church, I do not know anything, and I have been diligently attending religion and I continue to participate in the life of the Church so that the teaching of the Church regulates the issue of voting. [[But it's not urgent.]] I don't know anything about the Decalogue talking about penalties either. The Decalogue speaks of what is sin by referring to conscience and possibly to God's judgment. [[Don't kill me.]] [[Don't kill me.]] In the Decalogue, yes, but there's no prison sentence. However, since ethics and religion refer to consciences rather than prisons, I appeal to consciences rather than threats [[♪ The bell ♪]] The prison was...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u540	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u541	...guide. My question... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u542	I'm asking you to ask Robert Telus, the Law and Justice Club. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Marcin Święcicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u543	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members here referred to John Paul II, to the teachings of the Church, but I do not find there a call to prison, to prosecutors, to punish prisons for abortion. There's an appeal to conscience, to attitudes, to behavior. It seems to me that in this case, when, under certain extreme conditions, in a limited period of time, when there is not yet an educated consciousness, we allow abortion legally, then let us appeal to the conscience of these people, rather than to multiply prisons. The state can reduce abortion in a variety of ways, because abortion is bad, we all agree, but it can be limited by access to contraception, raising up to family life, including sexual education, by helping families who have a lower family... [[Voice from the room: What do they have?]] ...by caring and being able to adopt, so with the measures that we're definitely not using enough, too little. On the other hand, the state in this delicate matter, this difficult matter of conscience, is entering the most difficult situations with prosecutors, with informers, with some, I don't know, investigative departments, with police officers who will walk through the departments... [[Actually, it's just like KC's.]] ...after health clinics. As you can imagine, for example. When a natural miscarriage begins, a woman bleeds, goes to the hospital... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u544	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u545	...and the doctor refuses to help her... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...because there's no death certificate for this fetus yet? [[Someone here said men shouldn't speak. He was right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u546	Mr Piotr Polak, the Law and Justice Club, another question. You're welcome. There's no envoy. In that case, Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u547	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is addressed to the applicants of the "Stop abortion" project. Doctor, what do you think recklessness means about miscarriage? And let's add that this involuntaryness is at risk of being punished for up to three years in prison. Will it be unintentional to have a miscarriage when a woman miscarriages at work because she may not have worked? Is he gonna go to jail for three years? Or maybe an involuntary miscarriage will determine Ziobrowski's attorney if a woman miscarriages after a bike trip or after a walk? [[How ridiculous, Mrs. Dorota, shame.]] The prisoner will be gone, ladies and gentlemen. [[What an imagination. What does that have to do with anything?]] Mr. President, you had your five minutes on this podium, please... Your Marshal, you really are disturbing the honourable Member. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Step back, sir.]] [[If you're gonna talk to me, get up.]] At the beginning of her speech, the doctor said that the project was supported by 0.5 million citizens. I've come across this whole signature collection thing, and I daresay not everyone knew exactly what they were signing. We were signed after hearing the password, we are against killing unborn children without getting into any details. I'm against... [[You have to be ready for anything.]] ...but I'm also the mother of two adult daughters, and thank God I never had to face this most difficult decision... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u548	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u549	...and I didn't have to choose between life and death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u550	Another question, Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, the Law and Justice Club. Oh, there's the Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u551	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! When we talk about abortion at all, we're talking about the greatest war in human history, a war that's probably been going on since the dawn of time. But we're talking about the one who's legally sanctioned. Over a billion lives have been killed as a result of abortion in the world since the 1920s. In Poland from 1955 to today, almost 6.5 million unborn children - children - have been destroyed in this way, because even the Act on the Ombudsman of Children's Rights clearly states in the article. 2, that a child is every human being from conception to natural death. Ladies and gentlemen, I have here a model of an unborn child. That's what each of you looked like at the 10th week of pregnancy, that's what each of you looked like when he was in the womb - he had his head, he had clear hands, he had legs, he was connected to his mother, he felt his mother's emotions, he was happy, he was sad, he was afraid. Do you know that every child at the moment when they are introduced so-called. Medical instruments to perform an abortion, to the best of their ability to defend, to escape, to bullet? This is a struggle for life, this is the greatest war in human history. And I agree that today we have significantly reduced the number of abortions in Poland, but they are. It's not like they're gone. And most of the time... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u552	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u553	...for what reason? Eugenic. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] That's what we've always hated about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u554	Another question, Mr Marek Owa, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u555	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am also close to the teaching of the Church and I am in favour of life, I think almost everyone here in this room. But I ask myself whether the current law guarantees the protection of life. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Can you secure more? In my opinion, I wouldn't have had to, I'm sure I wouldn't have used records that give me the opportunity to remove a child because of a disease or something, but fortunately I never faced such a test, I didn't have to prove myself heroic. And I ask myself, can I impose such strict laws on others? [[You even have to.]] After all, we create a law for everyone, and it must also be socially acceptable. And in my opinion, the "Stop abortion" initiative in the perspective of a few years will lead to a completely different outcome. There was already a majority in this Chamber that liberalized the rules - in 1996. Today's legislation is not the result of the consensus reached in this House, it is the result of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Who's gonna defend us? You'll be shutting down by the Court, too. In a minute. [[Applause]] [[That's what you meant.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u556	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u557	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of both Initiatives! I do not agree with those who say that the dispute over these two projects is an ideological dispute or a worldview dispute. In my view, this dispute is purely legal and I believe that, as parliamentarians, we have the right to protect life. [[Voices from the O.R.: Duty.]] The pro-life law is a position on the balance of human life and the protection of this human life, and the law liberalizing abortion is at stake, say, freedom and civil liberties. High Izbo, whenever life protection is at stake, we have the right and obligation to vote for such projects. That is why I have no doubt about what decision to make in tomorrow's vote. On the other hand, I have a question for you, Dr. Joanna Banasiuk, about this potential prison sentence that may be imposed on a woman who undergoes an abortion. Is there really a discussion room in the committee? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u558	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice Club, another question. You're not here... Oh, I'm sorry. I wanted to give you a second vote. [[Let's do this again.]] We're running out of... That's probably why. Jan Mosiński, also club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u559	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To supporters of child murder: this is an aborted child. [[Member displays a photo of the child on the tablet after abortion]] Mrs. Nowacka, you see, you'll have a look. No anesthesia. That's it. It's an abortion baby. [[What kind of show is this? Try saying something.]] Relax, Prime Minister, we haven't crossed over to you yet, and I don't think we're gonna make it. High Izbo! The Polish Constitution protects human life as the highest value, also in the prenatal phase. This is confirmed by the Constitutional Tribunal, stressing that human life cannot be valued on account of age, health status, expected duration, or any other criteria, and that any possible doubt as to its protection should be determined precisely for this protection, in accordance with the principle of in dubio pro vita humana, i.e. if it is not certain that the human fetus is a human being, then it must be assumed that he is a human being from the moment of conception. The question to Mrs. Nowacka, who represents the abortion committee. What do you do to decide who lives and who doesn't? Eugenics was the strong side of the three lunatics of the 20th century: Lenin, Stalin and Hitler. I can't believe you want this bill to join this evil three. Finally, High Izbo, I will encourage my friends and colleagues... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...for this project to be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u560	Thank you very much, sir. Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u561	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The people who supported this project, which you presented to Barbara Nowack, often raised the issue of this underground here, were talking about an abortion underground. That's why you want to liberalize these rules. So I would like to ask the applicants: If there are often murders, since there are often rapes, do you also want to enter a record when murders are not punishable? Another one of my questions for the same group. So often you refer to the constitution. Then why are you accusing us, the defenders of life, that, following only the teaching of the Church and the ideological approach, we want to ban the killing of children? After all, the constitution guarantees the right to live. I also have a question for you, Dr. Banasiuk, thanking her for her commitment to defending life, and it's a long-term commitment. I would like to ask - because it was already mentioned here about prenatal research, about the fact that a false thesis is being made - about the choice between the mother's life and the child's life. Is the project that we're going to process now a threat to the mother's life? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u562	Thank you. Mr Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u563	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear representatives of citizens who bring their draft laws! We are discussing two draft laws on the prohibition/acceptance of abortion. Both projects are brought by a group of many thousands of Poles. One absolutely protects life from conception, provides for punishing all potential abortion participants, including a woman who decides on this step, while the other is very liberal and leads to a relatively easy possibility of abortion. As a Catholic, I have an opinion about it - the fifth commandment tells me about it, that's all. On the other hand, I was terrified by your speech from the Modern Club, which, by the way, was very ill-sighted about the project of Poles protecting lives and very clumsy about us. She asked, and I quote from my memory: Do you make women have a sick child? And I'm gonna ask you a messenger and you representing a liberal project: doesn't a sick child have a right to live? And two: What disease does this disease already sentence a child to the death penalty, and what is not yet? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u564	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Jolanta Szczypińska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u565	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we are debating something that is obvious, a fundamental matter, namely the right to live. And once again, I hear the argument that some people have the right to live, and some people don't have the right to live just because they're not born yet. And since a man has been born, he has the right to this life. Here, in this House, there were also disabled Members. I would never have dared to say that the value of their lives is less than that of Members of the disabled. They were lucky to be born. And you're denying the right to life for people with disabilities, for example. People with Down syndrome. What right? What right do you decide whether a 7-week, 8-week, 12-week child can live or not? You don't have that right. It's the law, it's not even an ideological matter. [[Oh, my God.]] I appeal to everyone here again, namely you, who presented the liberal project. What kind of signal are you giving parents of disabled children, disabled children who face various difficulties today? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What? That they survived by not seeing they were unnecessary to society? That's not true. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u566	Go ahead and finish it, Member. I invite Mr Arthur Sobonia, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u567	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today it is very convenient to use words: compromise or ideological war. Except there's no compromise in this case. There's a degree, a range of life protection. And those who are talking about compromise today, very often or most often in my opinion, are referring to the surrender of the state on what is its duty, i.e. on the legal protection of the lives of the most vulnerable, or unborn children. The creation of law is not about compromise, it is about space for the common good. The idea of a compromise resolution is absurd. We do not advance the vote on the laws of resolutions on earlier compromises in these laws. We always try to find a solution that increases the space of common good. And I am absolutely convinced that, on the basis of the civil project, the stop of abortion, we have the opportunity to increase this space to realize the common good by developing solutions that will increase the legal protection of the conceived life in Poland. That is the purpose of our parliamentary work today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u568	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Andżelika Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u569	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, here is fun with emotions of Poles and Poles, here is ideological and political war, and we see it. 460 Members have the right to play with these emotions? There's no right. That's what you think. This House is trying to divide Poles into better and worse ones, the progressive ones and the conservative ones. No. [[A voice from the hall: For those who survive, and for those who do not survive.]] You can't do that. This is a very difficult subject, very difficult subject. [[It's very simple. You're either for life or for death.]] [[Mr...]] And I have no intention of analyzing either project or project. A full-time student signs the consent to participate in sexual education classes - art. Point 1 (5) of the draft committee on abortion. It's absurd. Also, the other side, the committee, let's save women - I can't imagine that here instead of actually saving women, it starts juggling with numbers: by 12 weeks it will be unpunished to remove the pregnancy. I don't agree with that either. Ladies and gentlemen! Compromise, difficult. Before you throw away the rotten compromise you're calling me, I'm gonna tell you the story of life. The woman I saved from suicide - drama, rape pregnancy, 9 months of pregnancy, which she did not accept and love, drama of hard labor and drama of giving up a child, unwanted child, and drama of a child who was born unwanted. Think about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u570	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. [[The baby's alive.]] [[Maybe this baby will find a cure for cancer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u571	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Please don't disturb me...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u572	I beg your pardon, sir. I ask for peace in the courtroom. [[And that's where I said it...]] I ask you, sir, for peace. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u573	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a woman facing a challenge. Severe heart failure. Doctors clearly say that first of all, she has to get rid of her pregnancy. Why? Because the child is likely to be disabled, and she is risking her life. [[Most likely.]] This woman was surrounded by great support. This support allowed her to have this baby. And before we talk about tightening the law, let's talk first about surrounding women with this kind of support... [[You can be parallel.]] ...so they'd want to have babies. Not only at the prenatal stage, but also at the adult stage of life. Because I can say from myself that nothing inspires me more and doesn't delight me than when I see disabled children enjoying life on the paralympics. [[Beautiful. Beautiful.]] And I think they have much more gratitude for life than many of us sitting here. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Wonderful, very nice, beautiful.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u574	Thank you very much, Member. As the last question you ask Mr Robert Telus, the Polish club... Law and Justice. [[The Polish Party...]] [[But he's insulting us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u575	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have no doubt that everyone has the right to live, whether it's a man born with a disease, or it's a man who's raped. I wonder and wonder why you have doubts. I know a lot of people who live with Down syndrome, and I know how warm they are, like loved ones. I know how they give a lot of warmth and a lot of love to those people. I also know, ladies and gentlemen, a girl who was born of rape and is the greatest love for her mother. Now we are seriously wondering if the children of rape are to be - wonder, because I am not wondering - killed or not to be killed. Since when will the second drama cure the first drama? After all, both are dramas - rape is drama, and killing a child is supposed to cure the first drama. He'll never heal it. And, ladies and gentlemen, why is the child, the victim, to be punished, and this is the greatest, greatest punishment, because the death penalty, for the man who raped, and the rapist gets a little probation? Ladies and gentlemen... [[Yeah, that's right.]] ... It's... it's... [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a terrible thing, and I'm surprised the left side of the room...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u576	Go ahead and finish it, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u577	...thinking about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u578	Thank you. All Members have asked questions. I will now ask a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Mrs Joanna Banasiuk, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u579	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of nearly half a million citizens, I would like to thank those of you and your fellow Members who wanted to present a substantive, balanced position and questions that referred to the content of the citizens' initiative, not the fantasy, and those who have struggled to read the text of the project. In this Chamber, however, I also heard many criticisms that were supposed to refer to my position. I am surprised to note that most of these criticisms concerned not this document which I presented to you, but some other, imaginary one, which does not have much to do with the project, and what's more, sometimes it doesn't have much to do with current medical knowledge and knowledge in the field of biology. All the more reason to thank all those who wanted to lean on the content of the 784 print project. This is why I will remind you that, with regard to the content of the project, firstly, in order to restore the full protection of the life of the conceived children, the project assumes that situations that have so far allowed the child to be killed will become the basis for families to obtain material assistance and care from the state. Secondly, we provide the full opportunity to save the mother's life. The project provides that all medical activities that save the life of the mother, even those that can indirectly lead to the death of the child, are acceptable. And here no one will require heroism from mothers. It is the mother who guarantees the life of the child. Here, however, we can also refer to the general principle of criminal law, Art. 26 § 1 and 2 of the Penal Code, this is the construction of a state of higher necessity. Here, of course, the doctor doesn't commit any crime if he saves his mother's life. Thirdly, with regard to the issue of prenatal examinations, the project confirms that the child is a recipient of medical care and has the right of the patient, including the right of parents to information on his behalf. And these prenatal studies, which you have been polite to mention here, are now controversial mainly for one reason - because they are the basis for an unpunished abortion. If we're gonna get away with this, we're gonna get away with it. [[Applause]] allowing abortion, then prenatal testing will restore the diagnostic character and the therapeutic significance of these tests. The project further strengthens the child's right to have access to prenatal research by the fact that the child's status at the prenatal stage of development as a patient is confirmed. [[Do you believe that?]] On the other hand, with regard to the further content of the project, it is, of course, that the project restores the legal criminal protection of the life of the conceived child in place of the protection of the impersonal state of pregnancy so far. I would like to assure you that the project does not affect the situation of the mothers who have miscarried. A single miscarriage is never a crime, resulting from the general principles of criminal law. As far as he goes, of course... Forgive me for returning to my earlier thought. Of course, saving your mother's life also involves the situation of ectopic pregnancy. In such a situation, the doctor not only has the right, but also the obligation to save the mother's life, as the mother is the guarantee of the child's life. In addition, I would like to tell you that the Ordo Iuris Institute has prepared a bill to ensure that the quality of care for the mother and child is improved, for those children who are affected by a life-threatening disease or children who are disabled. This project has already been presented, it has been handed over to the Ministry of Health, it has been handed over to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and we hope that the work on this project will proceed quickly. In a nutshell, this whole aid package provides for support for perinatal hospices, care benefits without having to give up the work of parents of disabled children, the development of home long-term paediatric care, health benefits, non-material support, psychological assistance and support benefits, the faster adoption of a child conceived as a result of a prohibited act or a disabled child, the development of interventional adoption centres and the reform of the functioning of single mothers' homes by abolishing their regionalisation. [[Applause]] Finally, I would like to assure you that it is not true that the "Stop abortion" project wants to punish women. The project wants to protect every child from an assassination by everyone, including his mother. We have withdrawn from punishment, always providing for the possibility for the court to waive its sentence, as it is traditionally in democratic legal states. I will mention only a few such countries: Germany, Spain, Portugal, Hungary, Estonia, Ireland, Northern Ireland. These countries do not provide for an individual exemption as regards liability. As far as your further questions are concerned, if, during the course of the project, we come up with a proposal that will ensure the real protection of the child at the prenatal stage of development before every attempt on his life... [[It's protected.]] ...then we will certainly agree to such proposals. The Committee is open to a substantive discussion on each point of the project, but this must be a discussion that takes constitutional guarantees and principles arising from the legal order seriously. [[Applause]] This is what we hope for in the course of further parliamentary work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u580	Thank you very much. I would like to ask a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Mrs Barbara Nowacka. You're welcome. [[The revolution was a woman, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u581	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to thank those of you who have decided to participate in this debate and wanted to fight it calmly, substantively, factually, with regard to facts, not to myths, to what we are talking about, and to what we all really want to talk about, namely the protection of women's life and health and the safety of children. Before I start answering your questions and referring to your doubts, I would like to begin by thanking all those organisations and institutions that helped us collect signatures. The gathering of almost a quarter of a million signatures is a great success for NGOs. If you don't mind, this is where I'm going to thank them right now. [[We'd rather not.]] I would like to thank, above all, the Green Party, the Feminist Initiative... [[That's not the answer to the questions.]] [[But don't disturb me, gentlemen.]] ...I would like to thank Political Critics, I would like to thank the Association of the Polish Initiative, the Foundation for them. Isabel Jarugi-Nowacka... [[Marshal, these aren't the answers to your questions.]] ... The Foundation shall be responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Łyszczyński, the Association of Equality and Modernity and many others who helped us collect signatures. [[Free advertising time.]] $250,000. Signatures were collected for us by different people. These signatures were also collected by those who had children with disabilities, believers and unbelievers who had different values and political views. Among the people who brought us signatures were also supporters of Law and Justice, there were also supporters of the Civic Platform, Modern, ba, even today so critical and not listening to us PSL. What we're talking about... [[Game in the O.R.]] Your Marshal, may I ask you to silence the room? [[Please answer the questions.]] [[Keep your voice down. You're not a marshal to set the agenda.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u582	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. You have the floor now. I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u583	What we care about... [[Let him answer the questions.]] [[Keep your voice down.]] ...and I hope that we all care that women are safe in Poland, children are born loving and happy, and above all, that abortions that are and will be carried out are as rare as possible. If that's the common goal, then our conversation might make sense. If the purpose of some people here is to show their conscience or their faith... [[With your views, ma'am.]] I have full respect for this, but, ladies and gentlemen, you are here to be the law, to be the law that will not only provide comfort to your conscience, but also ensure a safe and worthy life for everyone, regardless of their faith... [[But the lady about death, not life.]] ...because the state is for all of us, not just for ultraconservatives. The state is for those for whom the right of women is the foundation, democracy and participation of women is the foundation. Around our project, as I hear it, many myths and doubts have grown, which sometimes surprise and maybe, I have the impression, result from reading our project with prejudice and unnecessary, please, because, as I say, it is important for us to have sexual education in Poland so that contraception is available in Poland so that abortions are rare in Poland and that there is no abortion underground in Poland. If we want to eliminate the abortion underground, we need to take all possible steps to... [[To allow an abortion.]] ...women could decide to have an abortion that is always difficult... [[The plague is treated with cholera.]] ...a decision for women so that these abortions can be safe. Mr Nitras, it is not that we want on demand, because it is never a request, a woman's wish, it is not a wish to go through a sad and perhaps leaving a trace in some people's psychic medical procedure. It's a decision, it's a right to a decision, and at the end of the day, it's always the woman who makes the decision, stays with her conscience. Those aren't wishes. It's just an important decision in life. We cannot judge her because it is not us - not us - that we will make this decision, but everyone in his conscience, everyone, regardless of his views, can be in a situation in which he will have to make a difficult decision. Most of you don't want the legislator to make this decision under pressure. [[But not about killing your own child.]] Mr Latos asked how we want to reduce the number of abortions. Mr. President, through education... [[Sexual.]] ... an education that will allow you from an early age to learn how to build relationships, how not to hurt, how to react when we are hurt. This might save a few teenage girls raped by their dads or uncles if they knew how to react quickly, and then they wouldn't have to get pregnant, which they didn't grow up to or want to do. So introducing sexual education at the right level is an opportunity for smart and safe sexual behavior. On the other hand, I have a question for Mr Latos, unfortunately absent. You declared on behalf of the club Law and Justice that the club would direct the project to work in committee and then we heard a whole range of speeches by Members who spoke against. So, what's it like, keeping your word to the voters? [[There's no discipline.]] [[No one filed a motion, ma'am. Do you understand what's going on here in the O.R.?]] Do you keep your word to citizens and citizens that you will not transform any project or not? [[He doesn't know what he's talking about.]] I now address Mr Kosiniak-Kamysz, a doctor who, I have the impression, left out, reading our bill, information on the clause of conscience. Mr President, no one in our project talks about denying anyone the right to apply the conscience clause. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Nor about the restriction, Mr. President. In our project, we're just talking about a doctor who says: I apply a conscience clause, he tells about it and reports it to the facilities for which he works. It's not a restriction, it's a chance for his coming out, so to speak... [[Oh!]] ...to say, yes, to me it is important, on his manifesto. This really isn't a restriction, it's an extension of this freedom and making it public. Mr President, please read the draft before you decide to reject it so easily. It has never really been said: do what you want, Mr President. [[Thank you so much.]] This is: think what you're doing, and decide for yourselves, decide consciously. That's why we're talking about sexual education, that's why we're talking about contraception, and that's why we're talking about how important it is to build relationships, how important it is to teach young boys not to hurt and rape, and how they see violence happening. I can't understand how you, the doctor, are so easy to turn down a project like this. A project that talks about the foundations of a good society that it creates as much education as possible and as much as possible. And I remind you that the Member is guided by his conscience, his conscience, yes, but builds the law for all, regardless of what kind of faith he is or whether he is deprived of that faith. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Exactly.]] If we want to have rights for everyone... [[Thank you so much.]] ...let's give women the right to choose. Each of them will decide in his own conscience. And he's got a conscience, and you can't take that. [[What about the law of the unborn?]] In replying further, I apologise for not being able to answer all your Members' questions at the moment. The rest I will try to answer in writing in the near future. Come on, Mrs Sobeck was kind to ask about post-election syndrome. Madam, she has no idea at all, but the only thing that exists is that women who are stigmatized by having an abortion and a certain ostracism that they are exposed to today. [[There's no mental illness in this country at all.]] Yes, it can cause harm and loss of mental health. Mrs Teresa Glenc referred to the Charter of Fundamental Rights. It is quite funny, because thanks to the British protocol, which the government in Jarosław Kaczyński's time repealed, unfortunately the Charter of Fundamental Rights does not apply to Poland. On the other hand, if we are talking about the Constitution, I would just like to remind you - this document, you must know it well - that Article. 87 Constitution says... [[They keep waving.]] ...that the sources of universal law of the Republic of Poland are: constitution, laws, ratified international agreements and regulations. So we are governed by international law. International law, which makes it quite clear that, yes, human rights according to case law, the Council of Europe Conventions are not of a nature... the right to protection of life is not absolute, but Article. 3 talking about the prohibition of torture and degrading treatment is ruthless. [[And abortion is what?]] Forced to rape a woman, 12 years old, to give birth to a child it bears the marks of torture, the Members' State. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Does the child feel abortion or does he not feel abortion?]] And I'd like to remind you that in the project we're bringing in, no one's forcing anyone to have an abortion. [[It's okay.]] No one's talking about what you've been empathizing for a long time, no one's forcing anyone to decide whether they want to have a baby or not. A woman has the right to do that. Ladies and gentlemen, the woman who decides to give birth to a child she knows will be seriously ill, handicapped, yes, she is a hero. [[What?]] Yes, it is a heroic act, deserves respect and as much state aid as possible. [[There's something else you need to say about your father.]] On the other hand, the benefits, the benefits that are today, you're right, that's humiliating these women. [[But the baby wants to live.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is to appreciate someone's heroism, and the other is to consider whether we have the opportunity and moral law to force someone to do this heroism. [[But the baby wants to live.]] Do we have the moral right to force the heroics of a 12-year-old raped child? [[The baby's not the same as the woman.]] Do you have the moral right to force a woman to have a child... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u584	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u585	...a creature that will live for several hours in massive torture, deprived of limbs, brains? Do you have a moral right to do that? [[Have you ever seen an abortion?]] [[Hands, legs, head severed?]] Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you don't have that moral law. [[Because I did.]] Of course, this discussion is quite difficult because some of you want to be guided by your - right, fully understandable and acceptable - sense of faith, conscience, but I appeal to all of you: be guided by the law, the good of common Poles and Poles, the safety of women, and respect that if they want children, we give them the right, conditions and opportunities. Let them know how to have these kids and what to do, so they can have them whenever they want, and make sure they live safe. On the other hand, if they make a different choice, if they are condemned by the Polish state, they will not live happily in Poland, they will live in condemnation. My dear God, I apologize for the Civic Platform... [[Oh, my God.]] [[Believer!]] [[Do not call upon the name of the Lord in vain.]] ...she was kind enough to mention the abortion compromise. Besides, Members of the Platform often discuss this compromise You said, and on the other hand, you're describing the hell women are going to bring in a bill proposed by Ordo Iuris. Ladies and gentlemen, most of this hell is already here, most of this hell is already happening, the number of abortions is not falling, and the abortion underground is rising. Women will continue to perform these abortions, only the question of whether they have to perform them in foreign clinics. We don't want to support it, but let's not say it's okay today either. The so-called abortion compromise, which you were so eager to talk about again, was concluded in 1993, when the Polish people did not have the opportunity to travel when the availability of contraception, especially contraception, was difficult. Today they can actually buy whatever they want on the Internet. Unfortunately, they often buy what they do to each other. Today, they can go abroad quietly. But what does that do? It causes them to stop respecting Poland, which for all of us is the greatest value, our country, our homeland, which we are building for the good of everyone. In your hands, it's the good of everyone, which is why I'm asking you, let's discuss these projects in committees. We are able to find common topics sometimes, we need to talk about sexual education, because without it there will be drama. We need to talk about contraception, we need to introduce a birth control refund so that the Polish people feel safe. And in the end, we must create such a law that everyone, regardless of their faith or lack of it, feels good in Poland. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u586	Thank you very much. As part of the corrigendum, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz came forward. Please, sir, before... [[I'm sorry.]] [[Corrigendum.]] Wait a minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u587	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear ladies of the legislative initiatives, First of all, everyone in this House is guided by their views, beliefs, values that they profess, and has the freedom resulting from the freedom of the mandate, its indisputability, and is not bound by any restrictions. It guarantees a constitution. For Mrs Barbara Nowacka, left-wing ideals are certainly close. And there is often talk of tolerance, only for tolerance to be true, it must be two-way - not only for those who have views similar to ours, but also for those who have different views, then this tolerance is full. We may disagree on many things, we can discuss them, but, in my opinion, it is more fair to put the matter in the way that I am putting it today, and not the way that the PiS Members put it, unfortunately. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm saying I'm against your initiative, and I'm going to vote for it, and that's not what the PiS says. PiS says we're gonna give you a chance in committee, but we don't support it, and it's not gonna work. It is better for this initiative to be honest.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u588	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u589	About being a doctor... Several points were still raised.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u590	But you're welcome, because you're out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u591	...that saving human life is the most important task of a doctor, the first, unchangeable and holy. And that's the most important job for a doctor. This is the essence of this profession. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u592	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u593	And you mustn't violate that creature. [[Which Mr. Arłukowicz forgets.]] And today, when we talk about very difficult matters, we also need respect for the diversity of views, not just teaching some. And for this respect in further work, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u594	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras as a correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u595	I would like to say to Mrs Nowacka that we are not sure that we are able to agree entirely on all matters, but if I take advantage of the fact that I am at the voice, I would like to draw attention to the silence in which you could be spoken by the committee representing the abortion, and I would like to apologize to you, Mrs Barbara, for being prevented from speaking calmly. [[Don't apologize for us.]] [[Voice from the hall: Who are you to apologize for us?]] That's not the standard of this House, that's the standard. Just one formation. [[Sorry, famous screamer.]] I'm very sorry about that. [[Abuse, not correction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u596	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Sobecka. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u597	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to assure Mrs Barbara Nowacka that post-abortion syndrome exists, and in such a drama there are women after the abortion. Your statement shows your poisoned heart and conscience. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Oh, dear!]] It's a pity you only care about women's rights, not the unborn child's right. I recommend you read St. John Paul II, a letter to the women in which she writes: thank you, Mother woman, for being a woman, and for being a mother leaning down with tenderness over the child. I recommend this reading to you. [[What's this?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u598	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u599	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Constitution shall contain in Article. 32 an important principle of equality between all people and the law. The In vitro Act provides for criminal sanctions for the destruction of embryos capable of proper development. Your abortion project wants to allow any killing not only of embryos, but also of children conceived, even up to 12 weeks. Such an obvious violation of the constitutional principle of equality before the law and such discrimination against children conceived naturally is unacceptable. The project should be rejected at first reading. Or will your bill allow any killing of children conceived in vitro? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u600	The discussion requested that the draft laws contained in prints Nos 784 and 830 be sent to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and rejected at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. [[Thank you.]] We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary bill in defence of the life and health of unborn children born in vitro, on the amendment of the Act of 25 June 2015 on the Treatment of Infertility, the Act of 6 June 1997. Penal Code and the Act of 25 February 1964. I ask Mr Jan Klawiter to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u601	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill, which I have the honour of presenting today, has two simple objectives. The first objective is to guarantee children born in vitro, eliminate selection practices, restore the relationship between the decision to conceive life and the responsibility for its development. This responsibility is all the more important because, in the case of in vitro practice, there are no accidental, unplanned or unintended conceptions. Every child called to life in this way has the right to grow and to be born. Their conception cannot be regarded as a means to an end, to which only some will be born. Man can never be the means to achieve the goal, because he is the goal of our solidarity and responsibility. The second objective is to restore legal order in the Republic of Poland. Polish law in many legal acts speaks about the conceived child. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 157a The Penal Code includes protection not only of his life but also of his health. Its rights cannot be revoked only to facilitate the operation of clinics, in vitro laboratories. The proposed law corrects in vitro legislation, restoring its consistency with the rights of the child conceived elsewhere. That's why he's wearing this special title. It doesn't establish new rights. It restores children who are conceived in a particular situation, such as the fact of extracorporeal conception, their rights confirmed by the Republic. The proposed amendment does not address the issue of moral debate on the ethical properties of in vitro practice. This is an important issue and requires a serious debate, but from a legal point of view, and therefore the direct responsibilities of the State, the essential in vitro effect is of paramount importance. The life of every conceived child must be protected. The fact that Polish legislation on life protection requires consistency was very clear from one of the legal authorities in the Republic of Poland - Prof. Andrzej Zoll. He said: The law must respond to reality. If we see that there are areas in which code protection is not complete and in relation to people so vulnerable, then we propose changes. And this is not a reaction to one tragic event or another, because so the Penal Code cannot be changed, but a whole situation that has been happening for years. The professor not only talked about this, but also proposed appropriate changes on behalf of the codification committee during the previous coalition of the Sejm. Today, I hope that the postulates of that time will be fulfilled. However, the need for serious treatment of the rights of children conceived out-of-corporeally most clearly reminded the Polish Parliament in its excellent resolution of 21 July 2006 on the financing of research on human embryos and embryonic stem cells in the European Union. I was not in the Chamber at the time, so I could not vote for it, but it was supported by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński and Marshal Grzegorz Schetyn. Over 80% supported her. Members of our House. I will quote from this act expressing the authentic moral consensus of the nation: Instrumental use of the human body and destruction of conceived life is a drastic violation of human rights. It cannot be justified by any circumstances, and these practices must be abandoned, regardless of the intentions for which they are undertaken. The destruction of human embryos is contrary to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal interpreting the article. 38 of the Constitution, violates Article. 157a The Penal Code provides for the legal protection of the health of the conceived child and is not acceptable in the light of Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and 3 of the Code of Medical Ethics. Unfortunately, in later years, disregarding these legal standards, the issue of in vitro debate was as if the people affected by these standards were the most, i.e. children conceived outside the system had no rights already confirmed by the Polish State. Today is the time for us to repeat together what we were able to say 10 years ago. The bill I'm presenting today has come across with the resentment of those who, in vitro, look at technology rather than the situation in which a man begins to live. Of course, every technical argument will be taken seriously in the work. If it has been claimed that the acceptable storage time prior to implantation is 24 hours too short, there is no obstacle to prolonging it in this or even a slightly larger dimension. That's not the point of the problem. The essence is that every child conceived in this way should have the right to continue to develop so that none is destroyed or frozen indefinitely without any real hope of development. Finally, which makes special sense today, I would like to recall the monumental ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 May 1997 clearly stating that the right to life is protected, including in the prenatal phase, and that life in a democratic state of law must remain under constitutional protection at every stage of its development. That's what I'm talking about. Today it's time to execute the ruling. He's been waiting 20 years for this. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Please refer the bill presented to the House for further work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u602	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Latos, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u603	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the project under review, print No. 525. I would like to start by saying that, regardless of the different kinds of doubts that can be had by listening also to the representatives of the applicants and reading this project, we believe that the right place for further work on this project is the Sejm Committee. [[Justice?]] For this reason, we believe that a certain exchange of views in the High House in the plenary room would be quite difficult, and there is certainly a need to talk to experts on this issue, to listen to the arguments of both parties, and perhaps, if it is the will, to amend the law by using this proposal, to make further adjustments on the basis of this document. Hence such a recommendation and such a conclusion. We believe that, for everyone, as I understand it, the doubts and reservations that may be raised from different sides of the room, both to the in vitro procedure itself and perhaps to this particular project, this project, which is currently in force, is certainly a project, I think, probably the most liberal or one of the most liberal in Europe, for example as regards the number of embryos created. Therefore, this is our position and I encourage all of you to have a substantive discussion in committee or in Parliamentary committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u604	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Kopacz, the Civic Platform. [[Now it's gonna start.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u605	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with a few facts. The first is that, thanks to the in vitro method, 6.5 million children were born in the world at the moment. The second fact is that thanks to the in vitro method funding programme from the state budget, which was implemented by the previous Platform and PSL coalition, more than 6 000 were born. children. I would like to tell you that the in vitro method is the most effective medical procedure currently available for the treatment of infertility. [[It doesn't heal.]] There is no European country where this method would be banned. [[It will be.]] There is no European country in which extracorporeal fertilisation would be considered an experimental method, but on the contrary. Since it's already been about facts, now I'd like to talk about something specific. About selfishness, about your selfishness, dear applicants. The bill you have proposed is not about anything but your selfishness, your willingness to prove and show that your will, your views, your power over others are more important than the happiness of other people and even the lives of other people. You often feel very important in this room. By raising your hand, by pressing the button, you suddenly become masters of life and death, prosperity and poverty, happiness and sorrow. But how much is it necessary to be selfish to impose your will, your views and superstitions above human life, and especially the life of a little child? [[Applause]] [[How hypocritical.]] In fact, my entire speech could be devoted to exchanging a name by the name of each child born with an in vitro method... [[This is where they claim to kill, this is where they claim to be born.]] ...who wouldn't be in this world if it wasn't for the method you're so de facto trying to ban. And you know what? Each of these children, every child born in vitro is worth more than your power in this room. [[Applause]] [[And yours?]] The more you want to prove how important and powerful you are, the more you will become smaller and smaller in the eyes of people outside this room compared to the little Victorias, Peters and Gretels. Why did I mention those names? Because I know these kids. These are children living happily in happy families thanks to the in vitro method. Little Victoria is today a 10-year-old happy child whose parents, having learned that she would be born, wept for several hours with happiness. So this little Victoria, ladies and gentlemen, is more important than all your power, Mr. Kukiz, and your entire club. [[Applause]] Little Peter, whose parents do not speak of him as a miracle, a gift from God, is worth more than your power, Mr. Kaczyński, your entire club, your entire government, your entire companies and thousands of worshippers. [[Oh, my God.]] [[What does that have to do with anything?]] You want to be so important, so badly you want to decide for others and impose what's right and what's wrong... [[Were you really the Prime Minister?]] ...that in this pursuit of your power, in this selfishness of yours, you have not noticed one thing: how small you are and how insignificant compared to those who are to their parents the whole world and the meaning of life. And I'll remind those who forgot why they're here. Let me remind you that power serves to give people happiness. And you're... [[Yeah.]] ...luckily, you are cynically taking away this method and its funding. The Civic Platform Club therefore requests that this project be rejected at first reading. On your hand, Marshal, this application is submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u606	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Thank you. [[Horrible. Something terrible. As you can be.]] Please take the floor of Mr. Michał Stasiński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u607	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! After these few months of being in politics, I could say one thing that is worth being in politics, because you can take great pleasure in helping people, helping people in many things, smaller, larger, often small, but very important to them. The law we are talking about bears a very lofty and well-sounding name, namely it is a law to defend the life and health of unborn children born in vitro. And this bill brought together Members of the applicants who formed a fairly specific coalition. Namely, we will find Mr Marek Biernacki from the Civic Platform there, we will find Mr Robert Winnicki from the National Movement, once Kukiz And when I saw that list and I saw the title of the bill, I found that it must be some really great, noble purpose, the one leading the applicants. Unfortunately, reading this law indicates that its purpose is exactly the opposite to that resulting from the title I read. The goal is very simple, said the Prime Minister. The purpose of implementing this law means one thing, total in vitro decommissioning in Poland. But in vitro elimination in Poland actually translates into dramas of many people - many women, many men, many couples, many marriages - who cannot be parents. One of the applicants, Mr Paweł Kukiz, is the father of three fantastic daughters. I'm the father of one daughter. My baby was born completely natural. I remember how happy I was when this child was born, and I suppose Mr Paweł Kukiz is three times happier than I am because he has three daughters. Ladies and gentlemen, I would never have thought of giving myself the right to stop other people from being parents. I wouldn't have the courage to invite, and I'm talking to those people who spend tens of thousands of zlotys for many, many years trying to... [[They're earning these...]] That remark was very inappropriate, sir. And I'm asking for more respect because I'm talking about people who want to be parents. If you're a parent, I'd ask you to remain silent. Thank you, sir... [[I have three children, and you're talking about money, sir.]] ...very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u608	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u609	They often borrow, make up whole families for these procedures, and this is an extremely good goal. [[And you can adopt.]] And now I wouldn't have the courage to tell these people that the captures of civilizations that we use in medicine... We transplant the heart, transplant the lungs, transplant the liver, stitch the limbs, and we also have an in vitro procedure. It's a procedure that doesn't destroy the unborn. Not a single embryo has been destroyed in this country. All these embryos, in accordance with the law, exist all the time. If we were working on improving this bill, we could, for example. provide for the adoption of embryos. We cannot tell people who, as a result of the application of naprotechnology, which is a long diagnostic procedure, show that a woman has endometriosis or ovarian obstruction, or an azoospermia male, that they will not be able to be parents. There are conquerors of civilization and our country, which teaches doctors becoming gynecologists and working, will tell them: thanks to this method you can be parents, just as a man with a heart defect Prof. Religa said: I will transplant your heart and you will be able to live. I call on you to reject this law at first reading and I ask you to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u610	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club. [[Voice from the room: Very nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u611	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Because I only have a minute left, I'm gonna cut my line short. Shortly, then. : You have no right to decide how to treat infertility. You are not the conscience of the nation. Nor do you have the right to tell people what is ethical and what is not. Ladies and gentlemen... [[In vitro is not a treatment.]] Would you be kind enough not to disturb me? Be elegant. You're a really cultural man.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u612	I'm asking you to calm down. And there you go, voice...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u613	I only have 30 seconds, let me talk. I'm talking to you as a doctor. [[In vitro is not a treatment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u614	I ask Members on the right side of the room not to interfere with the speech of the speaker. I ask you to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u615	Dear Designers! At the end of this brief statement, I would like to assure both countries and all interested Poles that, regardless of the future of this project, Modern will take all measures to ensure full financing of in vitro therapy. Modern [[♪ The bell ♪]] as a pro-family party, he will vote against the procedated bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u616	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u617	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A few words about history, because most of the time the in vitro method in Poland has been free American since its discovery. And that was the worst possible solution, and it worked for many years, because there was no control over the in vitro procedure, especially there was no protection of embryos, there was the possibility of creating hybrids, chimer. This was managed to change last year as a result of a difficult compromise, after difficult discussions with Prime Minister Kopacz, between clubs. At the time, the PiS Parliamentary Club was against it and declared that it would change it. Well, unfortunately, after the election he went the worst and the easiest way. [[With all due respect...]] The worst and easiest way he went was because he didn't tighten the bill, he didn't do according to his beliefs, which are probably largely in line with ours, but he eliminated the government's payout program. It has not changed the conditions of the in vitro fertilization method in Poland. In no way have you done this for a year since the election, ladies and gentlemen. Hence the Member's initiative, which collected signatures in different environments to change the rules. If you have a conviction, and you have said so in many cases in your speeches, then this law should have been amended a long time ago. You don't touch those with inferior material status. This is not the perfect bill, the one that was presented today, and here I agree with Mr Latos. The worst was the free American girl, because then you could do anything and there were no restrictions. There were no restrictions on the number of embryos or if they could be frozen, there was no penalty for pouring the embryo into the garbage can. It's changed, and it's a success. Incomplete, because I believe that this law should be closer to the Italian or German laws, but then there was no coalition in the Sejm that could push it through. The question is whether the project that was submitted today can evolve, but in a very far-reaching direction, because the one that was presented in this version is difficult to accept. It takes a lot of change, he's under-precise, but do you... That's the piss question again. Let us ask questions to give clear answers to Poles later, whether in this case it is the intention of the biggest club to change the law on in vitro. If so, are you able to determine at what time you will make this change and what limits of change you are interested in, because I understand that those presented in this act are unacceptable in this shape, but the changes are needed, otherwise we will send again to the second reading a law that will be frozen, and there will be no change of rules to which you resented, with which you also disagreed many environments, but there will be such confusion that we want a little bit, we do not want a bit. This is a fundamental matter and please... I know you're not the applicants for this bill, but without your words on this matter, it will, of course, be flawed. Are you able to fulfill your pre-election promises, and are you able to do so rationally? In our club there will be no discipline in this matter, just as there was in the adoption of a law that is in force today, which has limited the raging various kinds of bad cases that have been publicized, and it is certainly better than what has been for 25 years. This law can be supported or not supported, but always a crazy free American woman is worse than restrictions, even of a liberal nature, as in this case. Changes are needed and I ask the PiS club to determine whether it is able to work quickly on this law and what scope of changes it allows. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u618	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Michael Kaminski, the Circle of European Parliamentary Democrats. [[Michael, only with left-wing sensitivity.]] [[It's a small one.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u619	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Our wheel opposes the bill that has been presented. We are in vitro supporters, I consider it a great honour to work in the government with Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz sitting here, who carried out this project and gave thousands of Poles the opportunity to experience the greatest happiness possible in life for a person, i.e. being a father and being a mother. For this, the Prime Minister is very grateful to many Poles. I would like to say that the bill we are considering today will actually end in vitro, not calling it in vitro decommissioning, but in fact it will eliminate it. If someone says seriously that he cares about demographics, that he cares about the future of the nation, and at the same time wants to deprive people of the right to have children, he is either hypocritical or so fanatical that he does not understand basic things, fundamental rights of life. People have the right to have children, and they should be able to experience the joy of being a father and being a mother. That is why our wheel opposes this proposal. We look with concern at the attitude of the current power to the in vitro method, at the fact that this method is no longer financed, at the fact that there are some unnecessary and bad emotions from the present power camp around this matter. I hope no one gets any sense here and that this bad project will be rejected. We, as a circle of European Democrats, will take this position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u620	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to join the questions? [[Yes, I do.]] I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Anna Sobeck, Law and Justice. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u621	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the in vitro case, the most controversial is the fact that in many clinics human embryos remain after surgery and were simply thrown into a dumpster... [[The D.A.'s office, as you know.]] ...sold or given to parents in thermos. Many of them freeze in liquid nitrogen for years, and eventually they are destroyed or sold to other couples, calling it abortion. In November 2008, a publication of the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta was published, which serves as the main observer of the occurrence and spread of diseases in the world. These studies show that birth defects occur more frequently in children born by in vitro fertilization. Some of these defects are severe heart defects, which may occur twice as often, lip splits and palate, esophageal build-up, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There's a possibility...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u622	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. [[It's outrageous. Scandal.]] [[What are you saying?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u623	I'm quoting. I'd like some peace, please. [[Then don't quote me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u624	I'm asking you to calm down, really, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u625	There is a chance that a severe tumor of the eye, such as retina, will occur. In view of the above, the question arises: How does the Ministry want to help [[♪ The bell ♪]] To couples struggling with infertility?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u626	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u627	Is there a specific aid scheme for such couples? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u628	Thank you. Please, Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u629	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I remember how proud we were to accept this bill. We were proud that this is an innovative method, that we have modern medicine and that in our country children will be born with this method. [[Applause]] I don't understand this amendment at all. I completely do not understand the position expressed by Mr Latos, who spoke about some expertise and about going back to committee and debating. After all, she has been consulted many times with experts. It wasn't a politician's bill. It was a medic's bill. Minister, you are a doctor, you have repeatedly said how important it is for us to innovate. I've heard these words all the time: innovative medicine. So we have an opportunity right now for this kind of innovative medicine. More than 6,000 were born. children. Everything works, there was money. Ladies and gentlemen, how do you want to look into the eyes of all those people who have been through the entire hormonal treatment process and suddenly can't make it to the end because we politicians are starting to mix things up here? Do you think you have a moral right right now to make a difference? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In a system that worked well? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u630	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u631	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! Here, from this speaker, such a question was asked: Who gave you the right to decide the lives of other people? I'd like to repeat that question. I would like to refer specifically to one case, which I believe The law proposed by the dozens of people who signed it is particularly harmful. I'm talking about women who have cancer. In a situation where they already know about their disease and know that they will have to undergo chemotherapy, they decide together with their partner to freeze embryos because after curing they have a chance of motherhood. You want to take that chance away from them, and you want to take that chance away from all those families who can't afford any in vitro treatment in this situation. The law so changes the rules of in vitro - it actually makes it ineffective - so jeopardizes the cost of the procedure that, in reality, very few Polish families will have a chance as a result of this procedure to have a child. You have already taken many Poles a chance to have a child by taking financing. Now this project is gonna take away their chance at all, hoping for a baby. Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time for medical procedures not to be decided by ideology, because it is not ideology, but science, knowledge, progress should decide how to help people to be happy, and parenting is the happiness of many people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u632	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Czesław Sobierajski, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. This is Mr Marek Hok, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u633	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to remind you that Poland belongs to the most ageing societies. In 30 years, we'll be 6 million less. Therefore, demography is unambiguous. Every 1 000, every 5,000. Children born should be proud of us. Today in the world 80 million people have problems with the possibility of having offspring, in Poland 1.5 million young couples. Isn't it worth giving them a chance? Can't we do what the whole country is waiting for? Until recently, we were the only country in Europe that did not have a law on in vitro fertility treatment. We got that bill, we were proud of it. Today, with this amendment, you are closing the in vitro fertilization process, denying hundreds of thousands of young Poles the possibility of having children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u634	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club. There's no envoy. Mr Piotr Uściński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u635	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In vitro does not cure infertility, the Prime Minister does not cure it, and in its present form it causes, unfortunately, that thousands of children will never be born, children conceived. [[He's healing, sir, he's healing. We read books, we read books.]] [[They're bad books. You read fairy tales.]] These kids are inhumanly frozen for years. Therefore, the proposal of applicants is moving in the right direction - towards protecting the lives of children conceived by this method - towards changing the definition of embryo. Finally, an in vitro conceived child becomes a child by law. Unfortunately, this bill has some flaws. It is such a compromise, difficult for both sides - difficult for supporters of the in vitro method and for opponents of this method, but such are compromises. The bill's a little underdeveloped. In the title of the law - it is such a question to the applicant - there is a provision that changes the Penal Code. In fact, I do not find such provisions in the text of this law. I also have a lot of doubts about this 72-hour deadline for implantation. I understand we actually want these embryos not to be frozen. But if we're already allowing this one embryo to be created, I think it's worth asking the committee to see what the experts do, how to prepare this right, so that this one embryo has the best chance of being born. And in this way, this law must be prepared if we are to compromise the creation of this one embryo so that this one embryo can be born. And here, I think, 72 hours is not a good idea. That's why I'm proposing that we work this bill out in committee and really [[♪ The bell ♪]] They've approved it. It's perfect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u636	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u637	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the previous term of the Sejm, Law and Justice wanted to punish for in vitro. In the previous term of office of the Sejm, Law and Justice was against the regulation of the issue in vitro. You wanted to make sure there was no regulation about the in vitro case, so she was free-american when it came to possessing the embryos. Is that your ideology? What's all this about? The project is mostly signed by Kukiz MEPs15. But today you should be clear and hard about whether you are in favour of each couple in Poland having the right to be happy. Are you in favour of anybody who wants to have a baby having a chance? Do you want to take away the right to happiness from these people? Kids, that's very lucky. Anyone with kids knows that. Not everyone is lucky that they can fully naturally conceive this child. Tell me clearly what your position is. You're sending the project back to the committee. Do you really want to ban having a child with this method? Do you want to make Poles have to travel abroad, carry A huge cost to have a child? I believe that anyone who signs a project that is in favour of a project that refuses the right to this happiness should be ashamed today, and I hope that you will be ashamed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u638	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u639	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Hopeless, dramatic, fatal, disgraceful, catastrophic, horrible, critical, gruesome, inhuman, horrible, horrible, horrible, desperate, horrible, tragic, terrifying. [[Is it jammed or something?]] [[You'll be in Glass.]] There's not enough dictionary to replace all the things you can say about this project. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm shocked. [[He told me what he knew.]] Like-freedom, you really want to take away people's ability to decide how they want to lead their lives, what decisions they want to make. It's immoral. I must say that the Kukiza club, which, most of the time, signed the bill, is committing a catastrophic crime. How can people in Poland not have children? [[Applause]] How can a state not help these parents, people when it comes to having children? It's really immoral. I believe that this law should be rejected at first reading. Appropriate applications have been submitted. I appeal to Members of the PiS Parliamentary Club: hold off, do not take away the right to have children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u640	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Jan Dziedziczak, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There it is. [[I am, of course.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u641	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to start by ordering the discussion - because I have the impression that there are demagogic arguments - to ask the applicant whether this method, which you are proposing, really prohibits in vitro. [[He'll take it naturally.]] I feel like that's what the other side of the room is talking about, but I'd rather hear it from the applicant. Ladies and gentlemen, in general, our club has always advocated helping those who cannot have children. In my opinion, problems with the conception of a child, with the birth of children today is a civilizational disease. All the more reason for us as a country to go out with an offer, with the help of those who want to have children who want to be lucky. That is why we have always proposed a method of effective, cheap and non-inspiring controversy of axiological, Sunday Poles, i.e. a method of naprotechnology. Naprotechnology is much cheaper than in vitro, it is not simply a business of pharmaceutical companies like in vitro. Naprotechnology, this is also scientifically proven, is a much more effective method than in vitro. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Where?]] The percentage is much more successful conceptions. Finally, naprotechnology simply cures infertility... [[It doesn't heal.]] ...and does not introduce a mechanism of eugenics. Hence our offer to really help those who want to have children who want to be lucky, not to the pharmaceutical companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u642	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u643	Mr President, a glass of water is even cheaper. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[You're famous for not drinking water right now, especially in the evenings.]] I have a bill before me and I see among the people who signed up for this project, the name of Paweł Kukiz: a freeman, a rock-and-roller, the father of three beautiful daughters. I wanted to ask, Mr. Paul, where are you? You signed this document and didn't even bother to come to this debate and listen to the arguments of doctors, women, people who know about it. This is the country, this is the law, this is the Sejm. You cannot sign the bill and not come, not present your arguments, not listen to the arguments of others. You can't design people's lives, Mr. Paule, in this way, forgetting your responsibilities. I do not know such cases of serious people, and I respect the work of Paul Kukiz and I am terrified to see what is happening to him here. Musical creation, of course, not legislative. You can't do that. It's not a responsibility, it's not serious. I would like to ask the applicants whether they are aware that the determination of people to have children is so great that they are able to overcome many obstacles. The in vitro process, the woman's hormonal stimulation process is not indifferent to the woman. What you are proposing drastically reduces the effectiveness of this method, resulting in women being subject to this stimulation much more often in order to achieve, to have [[♪ The bell ♪]] She's a wanted child. Are you aware that you are acting against the health of those women who want to have children? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u644	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u645	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the project it is written: In the case of extracorporeal fertilisation, more than one female reproductive cell cannot be fertilized. This law, ladies and gentlemen, is really the elimination of in vitro in Poland, because it will be impossible to in vitro fertilize using the provisions recorded in the draft. It is the law of anti-woman, anti-human, anti-parent and anti-healthy sense. It will make women suffer, families will suffer, children will simply not be born from this method. Naprotechnology is not a treatment of infertility, ladies and gentlemen. In vitro this is the future that will make people who are sick, who cannot have children, just children can have - Jasie, Margaret, Krzysie will be born. And you, ladies and gentlemen, want to prevent it. But in the name of what? In the name of ideology? In the name of opinion, of conscience? Do not follow your conscience here, because this is not the conscience of the whole nation, this is not the conscience of all parents who want to have children, and these children cannot have. Such an important project, ladies and gentlemen, but was there a public consultation around it? Have you asked anyone about their opinion - doctors, environments, parents who can enjoy their children from the in vitro method? You didn't ask anyone. You've only invented this project for the sole purpose of... What's the point, ladies and gentlemen? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u646	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u647	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I'd like to ask the Minister if naprotechnology... Excuse me, Minister, is naprotechnology a fertility treatment, is in vitro a fertility treatment? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Infertility is not, infertility.]] In the light of my knowledge, naprotechnology is such a method, and in vitro is simply the circumvention of what happens to these people, but it does not cure, these people do not become fertile, as such do not become fertile. [[Well, well, well.]] But what the... [[But there is a child.]] ...the applicants, Mr President, I have a few questions, because it seems that this project is going in the right direction, it is about not being fertilized, not getting many embryos fertilized, and then freezing them. In Poland we have tens of thousands of frozen embryos with which we do not really know what to do. You don't regulate it either. [[But you know it. It regulates the bill that changes that.]] I also have a question. Why can only one cell be fertilized, not two or three, provided they are implanted? [[Because.]] But there is a reason why you have adopted such regulation. Can in vitro fertilization be done among spouses, among people known, or can genetic material be collected from an unknown person? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u648	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u649	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to dispel my doubts about what this project is. Print No 1110, Art. 57: Whoever creates a human embryo outside the body of a woman is fined, punishes restrictions on liberty or imprisonment up to the age of 2. Under this project are signed: Marshal Brudziński, Marshal Kuchciński, Beata Szydło, Andrzej Duda and Jarosław Kaczyński. That's the truth, that's what this is all about, and there's nothing to lie to the Poles about. That's what you're getting at, because that's what you want. You want to put people in jail for wanting kids. I don't even have anyone to talk to because there's an empty jury, and that's how you ignore it. You don't give a shit. What is important is ideology, devotion to those whom you promised something before the election, and they are not Poles mostly. I also want to declare, looking at you - and into your empty benches - right in the eyes, and also to all Poles: on the first day when we return to power, we will restore in vitro and be born [[Applause]] Not 6,000. Children and 60,000. And 600,000. children. [[A dreamer.]] Only, dear Poles, you must wait out this difficult period of ideologists and moralists. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Completely aideological.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u650	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u651	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a discussion that goes far beyond the framework of this bill, because it is a discussion about whether the ideological majority who usurp the right to impose on people whether they have a right to happiness or not will win or win a country whose citizens decide whether they want to be happy or not. Ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice Members! If I'm listening to you, I'm having second thoughts about whether you're for life or if you're for family. No, you're all for ideology. You want to destroy a method that gives a lot of people around the world the right to be happy. You don't have the right to do that, you don't have the right to take people's rights to have children, to take people's rights to be happy. One thing that really amazes me in this whole discussion is where are the Members of the applicant who signed this bill. [[Exactly.]] Where is Mr Paweł Kukiz, where is Mr Marek Biernacki from the Civic Platform, where are all those people who signed this bill, which is very bad, which takes away people's opportunity, the right to have children? I appeal to all of these, I appeal to Mr Marek Biernacki, a very decent, honest man, I appeal to Mr Paweł Kukiz who is not here and to other Members of the Kukiz movement15 - withdraw your signatures submitted under this [[♪ The bell ♪]] A barbaric bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u652	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u653	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, After all, infertility is one of many diseases that we do not really want to have, we would not want our wives to have it, so that our daughters-in-law, our daughters-in-law, might also have it. [[What about men?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, life is what it is. And today, maybe it's a good thing that it's kind of symptomatic that we were just discussing an abortion bill, and now we're talking about in vitro. How much hypocrisy, hypocrisy, the honourable Member must be in order to say such a thing about shame. [[But who are you talking to?]] To the Member. How much hypocrisy it took to talk about how much you wanted to give Poles the opportunity to have children. And here it is as if a concrete proposal: because of your condition, we give the opportunity to adopt children. Adoption of children you just told me you didn't want to give them the opportunity to see the sun, see life. How much hypocrisy and hypocrisy do you need? It is inconceivable to me that just a few minutes ago you stood up for people who are having an abortion, and now you want to fight to make young people happy... [[Lord, there's a difference.]] No, no difference. ...to give young people the opportunity to have children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where's the logic?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u654	Thank you, sir. I wanted to point out that not only women are infertile, men are infertile. [[Applause]] You're welcome... [[In corrigendum mode.]] In the procedure of correcting Mrs Ewa Kopacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u655	I understand that the time is late and the Member does not necessarily understand what I was talking about. But it's hard to wonder, there's actually some medical stuff here, and you're not a medic. [[You must be a weak medic.]] Well, there's only one thing I want to say. Here in this courtroom, sir, no one has been given a mandate to make others happy by force, to make their lives and decide for them. Neither you nor any of 460 politicians are here to decide for people living in our country, for Poles and Poles. I'm afraid you have that manner. You guys, where you don't understand something, you lock it up best because you're afraid of it. Then learn, then read, then check, and sit down with these mothers and these children and talk to them, just like we talked to them. Today, you take the funding of this method for one reason only. Do you know what it is? Because you're dealing right and left, so you're looking for savings in residency, you're looking for savings in in vitro funding, and you have your very specific way of explaining it to the Poles. You say we're doing this for your own good. You propose naprotechnology, temperature measurement, and pretend to treat infertility effectively. So it would be good for you to read something from time to time. I know it's medicine, that medical reading isn't easy, but you seem smart, so maybe you'll understand something. So I suggest you do, before you criticize anyone on this platform who stands up for the happiness and freedom of others, after all, have some knowledge. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u656	Thank you very much. Next question... [[Your marshal, in corrigendum mode.]] Please, but very briefly, sir, and we move on to further questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u657	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Someone once said that if you think about a woman, talk about a woman or talk to a woman, do it always as if you were thinking, talking or talking to your mother. Unfortunately, my mother is no longer alive, and I miss her very much, and I love her very much, but I follow this principle because I respect all women, and I respect you too. And that is why I ask the Prime Minister, I beg the Prime Minister to allow me to continue this principle. [[Applause]] [[Wow...]] [[You'll be heard.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u658	Thank you very much. [[You're gonna have to change.]] I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u659	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The parliamentary bill will eliminate the treatment of in vitro infertility completely. I have serious doubts as to whether the authors of this project were aware of the effects of this project, or whether it is merely an expression of their ultra-extreme views and lack of reliable knowledge on this subject. After all, in vitro is the last stage in the treatment of infertility when other methods have completely failed. We will be the only country in Europe that will prevent couples from treating infertility effectively and having long-awaited offspring. In the last three years, as has been said here, nearly 6,000 were born. children and the treatment programme was financed by the state budget. Unfortunately, PiS brutally withdrew from funding the treatment and even discontinued the treatment of couples that were in the course of this treatment. Yet most people cannot afford treatment in private clinics. The legal act will require treatment abroad. Better married couples can handle it, but what fate awaits couples who can't afford it? It's a great harm and injustice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's barbaric. I want you to come to your senses. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u660	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u661	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! By a bill eliminating the method of treatment of in vitro infertility, you introduce real cognitive dissonants in Polish society. Namely, it is impossible to explain why on the one hand the government of PiS seeks to defend life by wanting to tighten up abortion laws, and on the other hand it prevents the conception of this life by eliminating the method in vitro. The whole medical world speaks with one voice: your proposal to treat infertility by means of naprotechnology is a lame technology. Why do you deny Poles the right to happiness, the right to have their own offspring? I know such families, such marriages, which only thanks to this technology can be happy today and implement your plan related to more births in Poland. The 500+ method won't help here. Here you need an in vitro method financed by the state budget. Please, give Poles a chance to have happy families, have their own children, and do not take what we are called to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u662	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u663	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice were hit today during the debate on this bill, although none of the Law and Justice is signed under this law. We got the most hit out of the mouth of former Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, so literally for everything. [[She just doesn't understand.]] [[Voice from the room: She's gone.]] First of all, ladies and gentlemen, you have not listened to the voice of John Klawiter, who justified and presented the bill. The in vitro method will not be eliminated. The bill presented by the Member has two objectives. First: guarantee children's right to birth in vitro and eliminate the selection practices that unfortunately take place all the time. Second objective: to restore legal order in the Republic of Poland. Polish law in many legal acts speaks about the conceived child. It is good that this bill will be addressed to the committee, it is good that there will be a debate, because the proposed amendment does not deal with the issue of moral debate on the ethical properties of in vitro practice. I think this debate, if it's on the committee, will make everyone okay. It is likely that some changes to this draft law can be applied, but it should take place in the light of the fact that earlier [[♪ The bell ♪]] We've been debating for hours about the abortion bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u664	Thank you very much. Mr Szymon Ziółkowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u665	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In vitro gives a chance to a child to those who can't have other methods of the child. You don't choose this method for whimsical, lazy, just because it's really the last resort. Of course, you can say you can adopt a child. Unfortunately, not everyone gets the chance, not everyone gets the chance to become an adoptive family. In vitro children are smart, healthy, looking at what this method looks like, you can say they're snuffed out and blown out. They're great kids. Each of us has a conscience and should be guided by it. If he has such a strong conviction that he does not intend to use this method, it will be his free will. Each of us has free will and should be guided at this moment. Why do you want to take away the right to have children to some families? Whether someone is a believer or not is his private business and we should not discuss matters related to it in the plenary room. That's what the Church is for. Here it is our duty to support all citizens, whether they are believers or not, but above all we must support parents in procreation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u666	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u667	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say, Mr Klawiter, that I am really ashamed that we must debate such a bill today, but I think that I am not only ashamed because of the Members who signed this bill, I see only you in the Chamber. The others didn't show up, so I don't think they want to talk about it. I am ashamed that we have to talk about the right to the happiness of Poles and whether we give them the right, because it is the right of every Pole and should have every Pole. Anyone who wants to have children should have the right to have children. I really don't understand how you can make a bill like this, and I'm hoping that Law and Justice won't allow this project to be on the committee because it's just not right. But I have one more question for the applicant, the question of solving the subject of donation, also criticised by the Supreme Court. Currently, an in vitro baby has a legally guaranteed presence of a social father who has agreed to be fertilized with a foreign semen, has become a legally father and cannot deny this fatherhood, and according to your bill, men who approach their partners for adoption of an embryo or procedure [[♪ The bell ♪]] With the use of donor semen, they will not be considered fathers. And who is this bill supposed to serve? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u668	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u669	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the website of the Ministry of Health we have data from December ub. from the implementation of the "Infertility Treatment' programme by means of out-of-corporeal fertilisation for the period 2013-2016. And there we read: 150 million for the implementation of this program, 17 084 couples who were restored hope, 3841 children who were born thanks to this method, less than 40 thousand. For Philip, Zuzi, Cuba or Simon's life. Without this program, they wouldn't be among us. A little over $4,000. for hoping for future parents who dream of their own child. Gentlemen, unfortunately and ladies, there is only one applicant, so I say to you: Do you have the courage to look into your eyes, looking at the couple who want to have a child, and to say no? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u670	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u671	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law proposed by you will not only block the possibility of in vitro treatment in Poland, but will also block the possibility of in vitro treatment abroad and the conduct of pregnancy by a doctor after returning to Poland. Art. 112 point 5 of the Criminal Code says that regardless of the law in force at the place where the criminal act was committed, the Polish criminal law applies to the Polish citizen and the foreigner in the event of a criminal offence from which it was obtained, for example indirectly, a property benefit in the territory of the Republic of Poland. In this connection, in conjunction with your proposed legislation, this only means that a woman, if she undergoes an in vitro vaccination procedure e.g. two embryos in Germany and will come to Poland to carry out pregnancy, then the doctor who will carry out this pregnancy will be at risk of 5 years of imprisonment, and if it has a permanent source of income, even up to 10 years of imprisonment. You want to ban the freezing and limit the time of embryo implantation to 72 hours. The embryo lives without freezing for up to five days. Who's gonna be responsible if a woman gets an accident or gets sick? Who will then bear the penalty, a woman or a doctor? Misfortune can happen to anyone. Infertility does not protect even the most conservative views. This infertility can happen to your loved ones, your friends, yours. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Those provisions you're proposing will prevent effective fertility treatment. Think about it when you're going to vote on this bill. [[Applause]] [[There's an adoption.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u672	Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u673	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Complainer and Supporter! I would very much like to believe that, with all your conviction, you believe that this law does serve the in vitro method. But I am convinced, also after today's statements, that you are not in good faith. Because if you were in good faith, you'd see how it works elsewhere. I'm not even talking about reaching out to experts anymore, because you're convinced of your own knowledge, and you don't think you have to. You often rely on the experience of other countries, and here we have the Italian experience. A similar solution was introduced in 2004 as regards the possibility of fertilization of only one embryo. All you had to do was reach out and see what the effect was - dramatic. In fact, this has led to the fact that the bill has ceased to work and has been modified. A little humility was enough, but pride is in your hands. You don't even need this apple from the tree of right and wrong anymore, because you're directly connected. You do not need the tower of Babel, you know all that is right and wrong. Just remember how it ended, when a man knows better from above, I do not want to say that better than the Lord God, which is good. [[Applause]] [[You are correcting the Lord God.]] [[This needs to be written down. Very interesting thought. He'll go into the canon.]] [[Yeah, it's a classic.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u674	Thank you very much, Member. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Jarosław Pinkas, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u675	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that the health department has not slept through these days and we have something to show for, because we have created a real comprehensive programme of procreational health protection. We've been working for months to get 97%. couples who have fertility problems had this problem solved in an absolutely complex way, because this is the word key that solves this real, important problem. Infertility centres will be set up in the near future. In every medical school, where there's a medical department, there's a fertility clinic, a real fertility clinic, where endocrinologists, genetics, andrologists aren't there. A huge percentage, your marshal, fertility problems are men's problems. No one remembered that. It is also psychological aid, well described, implemented by a very large team of wise, experienced psychologists. It wasn't there. It's access to modern surgical techniques, for example in the treatment of endometriosis. There are doctors in the room, they know what I'm talking about. Modern technologies, a modern way of education - it is also very important - all doctors who face this problem are also education of family doctors who can recognize problems with infertility at the outset. This program is as expensive as the in vitro program, Prime Minister. We don't save money. We're not gonna be saving on that, it's the other way around. Next year more than PLN 60 million were saved for this project. Hopefully there'll be a few clinics next year. The first clinic will be established this year at the Polish Mother's Health Center. I invite you to open this clinic. Just two days ago, there was a conference at the Polish Mother's Health Center on women's health. We presented this project. This project has been very well evaluated by many specialists, gynecologists who know very well that we are based on hard data, scientific evidence and all that will be done there is evidence-based medicine. We don't think so. We're going to implement state-of-the-art technologies to give a lot of people a chance, a lot more couples than they would give an in vitro program. We're not leaving him, we're just not financing him. He is available in Poland and will be available in Poland, while we changed the proportions. I guarantee you that in a few years' time, because of course we will only be assessing this after a certain period of time, we will have a much greater procreational success than by directing these funds to one of the methods, but one of the only ones that is the in vitro method. People have the right to choose and that is the choice we retain, but we have absolutely postponed, I would say, the accent of funding, so that a much larger spectrum of couples have access to modern benefits. This clinic will all be in one place. So far, there's been a dispersal of benefits. It was a road through pain to get to doctors who could give real benefits. It's running between endocrinologist and geneticist, another referral. Andrologers in Poland are practically gone. It's gonna look completely different. We deal with the problem complexly, not clipping, but that's not all. [[Applause]] Another issue is the National Health Programme. That's the implications of the Public Health Act. Thank you for finally being accepted after many years. The National Health Programme is a lot of money for education. We added - that was the first thing we did in the health department - another operational goal in the National Health Programme. That's the goal of procreational health. It's the whole educational part for people, what you have to do to not have these problems. That's what the money's for. We're announcing competitions right now. The National Health Programme came into force also in September. I'm sending you to our website. Please read the Comprehensive Procreational Health Programme, which is a health policy programme. It's easy to find on our website. It is worth reading and seeing that we have done things completely unique and we will probably be leaders in the world. We're the first ones to set up a tissue bank. Women who fight cancer will have a chance to be fertile. This is a real comprehensive approach to the issue. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u676	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask you, Mr Jan Klaviter's applicant. [[Ask where the platform is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u677	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would, of course, like to straighten out a whole series of understatements. I may not have been fully understood, but I would like to say clearly: we, the applicant, do not prohibit the use of the in vitro method. That's the first thing. It is we who point out that on one side of the method there are parents who want to have children in a legitimate way, and we do not take this, and on the other side of the action there are embryos, which must also be protected in accordance with the law. It can't be that it's some kind of matter, something like that, let's just say... He is a man at the earliest stage of development and must be properly protected. We just want to value these two sides properly. In vitro children are no worse than other children. We love them just as much as the other kids, [[Applause]] 'Cause they're, like, normal. Of course I do. And nobody says they're more or less loved. The prevention of infertility, what the Minister was talking about, is not just an in vitro method, although we do not delete it here. Also, when we say that parents will not be able to have children in other ways, we keep talking about this naprotechnology, etc., let's look impartially, calmly. These are also methods that have a certain effectiveness. It's not space, it can be checked, measured. It's not some kind of secret science, it's not something you don't know. I'm asking you to look at this here too, see what methods are effective, whether there are children, whether children were born with these other methods. So that we do not eliminate the in vitro method, nor is it legitimate to say that well, it will be less eggs, less embryos, will be efficiency that much and so much less. 19 years I was a research worker at the Gdańsk University of Technology and it is not so that a certain effect of action is a linear function of certain parameters. Often these functions can be more complicated. It doesn't have to be that right away, let's say, they're used, high-level hormones are dosed, so that there's a large number of eggs, so that there's an ovulation that gives a large number of eggs. It may be that if you need less of these eggs, this stimulation will be smaller and therefore these eggs may be... [[Worse.]] Good. It's not like it's all linear. Here, such matters were discussed, e.g. 72 hours, and so on. This is a topic for discussion. It's said that 72 hours from conception is the best time to implant cells, but we don't insist on this project that it has to be 72 hours, it could be some other number of hours. There are specialists who say this is the best, but other specialists can say that other, let's say, parameters in this case may be, so to speak, applied. As for the remarks concerning the Penal Code, it was indeed included in the title of the Code, cited in the Penal Code, although it is merely, so to speak, written there, but there are no amendments proposed in the Penal Code. Further comments were of the kind that people in Poland could not have children. I think it's some kind of misunderstanding. Once again, I want to go back to the fact that we're not preventing neither the in vitro method nor the situation where we're preventing the use of alien cells or embryos. In Germany, for example, this cannot be done, an embryo or an egg cell cannot be adopted, and in Italy even sperm. So that it's not like that, let's just say that we're the worst and everything that's bad is here. For such comments, because I am not talking about comments, let's say, such bystanders, I am talking about comments concerning the project, about the issue of recognition of paternity, I must refer to the remark he made, wrote by the Supreme Court in relation to a project that was examined a year ago. The Supreme Court wrote about this previous project: it must be demonstrated that the adopted design, the recognition of paternity, is very complicated and leaves the creation of a family legal relationship between the fatherhood of strangers beyond any control. Here, perhaps, the Member who asked this was about what would happen if the seed of the donor partner was not used for fertilization. The Supreme Court previously identified those problems that were not resolved. In this connection, he wrote: the legal institution used to create a fatherly relationship between a man from whom the child does not come, who is not a mother's husband, in the event of a child being born as a result of a medically assisted procreation procedure requires more serious consideration. It's not an invention of the authors. It's the Supreme Court's opinion. So that perhaps here the subject will need to be considered more, because we do not prevent adoption, adoption of this embryo, recognition of fatherhood by a father who is in fact not a biological father. Let's say it wasn't his seed or his husband. Is it still here? I think there's a lot of emotion here, and I think we should take it easy... Oh, why only one cell phone? Here the point is that I don't rule out that there may be two cells, but the point is that this embryo shouldn't be stored for 20 years until, let's just say, someplace the electricity doesn't turn off where it stays, so to speak, frozen, and then it stops growing, it won't live. Therefore, this construction is so that this man is not frozen, that there is no situation when we eliminate embryos. The previous method allowed such elimination. Less educated is growing slower - you can throw it away. It was protected only the embryo that was rapidly developing, had the right shape, etc. That's what happened, unfortunately. So here... [[No, it wasn't.]] I think there's concern here, I understand, a lot, but it's not a problem to work things out. We need to look at the other side. And so I think we can reconcile business and parents wanting to have a baby, and those kids who, let's just say, are waiting. The embryos that are in the embryo banks can wait, too. Maybe they'll see it coming. Sometime in the future, they can be used in vitro. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u678	Thank you very much, sir. In the procedure of correcting Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club. [[It wasn't...]] There was a reference.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u679	Your marshal let me in, please don't speak for you. Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Just as it is often very depressing to speak to an empty room, I am so glad today that the applicant spoke to an empty room... [[Voice from the room: From the modern three.]] [[Voice from the room: Platform two.]] [[Mr President, three of the Modern Club is one-tenth of the club. How many of you are there?]] ...because words in such an extremely delicate matter should come out of the mouth of people who really know about it. Minister, I have great respect for you, your knowledge and experience, but today I am concerned about your dwarfism, because you know very well that a lot of endocrinologists, andologists, psychologists will not help if there is an inflammatory change in the fallopian tubes and various other consequences of pelvic diseases, where only the in vitro method can help. Member of the Commission, my colleague from Wielkopolska, Kaleta noted that I am an orthopedist and a traumatologist, and I should not actually praise myself, speak about gynecology and obstetrics, but I am the lucky graduate of the Polish Medical Academy in Poznań, which more than 40 years ago, when Mr Kalet [[♪ The bell ♪]] Most likely he was still in his mother's womb, internship in gynecology and obstetrics. It was the most beautiful studios you could imagine. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u680	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 22 September this year. Members have made themselves known to the statements. Anyone else want to sign up for a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice will make the first statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u681	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The year 2016, which was established by the resolutions of the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland by Henryk Sienkiewicz, is a special time, in which we commemorate both the character and the work of our great compatriot, the first Pole honored with the literary Nobel Prize for all his works. This is a time when we not only appreciate Henryk Sienkiewicz - a writer, but also remember him as a great patriot, who in 1905, during the ceremony of awarding him the Nobel Prize, said that this privilege is especially valuable to him as a son of Poland. He said the words: It was preached dead, and this is one of the thousands of evidences that she was alive. It was proclaimed conquered, and here is a new proof that it can win. The establishment of the Sienkiewicz Year encourages and motivates to take many interesting initiatives throughout Poland, which aim to popularize the author's works and activities. Last Friday in my hometown, Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, the 1st Ostrowiec Parade with Noblista took place on this occasion. It was initiated by the Public Society of Primary School No. 7, whose patron since 5 May 1997 is Henryk Sienkiewicz. Several hundred students from primary and secondary schools and many visitors attended the parade. The route of the march led, among others. by one of the main streets of Ostrowiec, wearing the name of Henryk Sienkiewicz. It must be admitted that the parade was extremely colorful and organized with great momentum. The brass band of the state music school, which took part in this parade, put the participants in an excellent mood. All the institutions participating in the parade worked out for six. The students wore costumes referring to the character from Henryk Sienkiewicz's novel and carried banners with passwords referring to the celebrations of the year Sienkiewicz. This was possible thanks to the involvement of many people, of whom I can unfortunately only mention a few. These are the coordinator of the celebrations at the school of Monika Wiączek and Mr Julita Klepacz, Ewa Zakowa, Mariaola Krawczyk and Joanna December. The words of recognition include the head of the school of Mrs Rozalia Machnicka and the partners of the parade: Public Junior High School No. 3 and Municipal Cultural Centre in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie. The parade was one of the important elements of the celebration of the year Sienkiewicz in the Public Primary School No. 7, but not the only one. It is impossible to mention all of them, but it is enough to mention the participation of the students of the seven in XXIV National Sienkiewicz School Zloty in Oblęgorek or the shares of the Seven reading Sienkiewicz. The year of Henryk Sienkiewicz will undoubtedly contribute to the popularization not only of the characters and works of this great writer, but also of the values which are filled with his novels and of which patriotism belongs first. Through his activities, both literary and social, our Nobel Prize winner taught the love of his homeland, his ability to sacrifice and his national consciousness. In such a tragic time for Poland, he wrote partitions to refresh hearts. The Ostrowiec Parade with Noblista fits perfectly into the idea of celebrations of the year Sienkiewicz. I congratulate and thank the public community of Primary School No. 7 and the authorities of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski for its organisation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u682	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Simon Giżyński, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15. [[Before that, I did.]] Excuse me, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u683	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My statement concerns 70. the anniversary of the mass crime carried out in September 1946 in the Hubertus clearing between the villages of Barut and Dąbrówka. The nearest Saturday in the municipality of Wielkiewiś in the district of Gliwice will be celebrated a ceremonial field service on the anniversary of the mass crime carried out in September 1946 by the NKVD and UB on soldiers of the National Armed Forces in the Hubertus clearing. Polana Hubertus is described in Silesia as Silesian Katyn, where patriotic ceremonies are held every year at the cross symbolizing the place of murder, which commemorate the victims of communist crime. 70 years ago - 25 September 1946 - in the woods near Barut approx. 200 soldiers of the 7th Division of the National Armed Forces from Podbeskidzia, the commanding captain Henryk Flame, pseudod. Bartek. They were tricked by U.B. agents by the promise of going to Western lands. They were spent in the barn and blown up using mines and gas cans that were previously placed on the floor of the building. The remains were burned and most likely buried in two mass graves. This communist crime could not be said for years. This place was only commemorated after the systemic changes in 1989. Today there is a cross placed by the local people, at which every last Saturday of September Mass is celebrated and the appeal of the fallen is held. The most important message of these soldiers was love for their homeland and the struggle for sovereign and independent Poland. From this point I would like to thank the inhabitants of the municipality of Wielowoś from the district of Gliwice and all those who by their actions make the memory of soldiers murdered in the clearing of Hubertus nurtured. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u684	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u685	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Silent, forgotten, underestimated - this is the motto of my statement today in the Polish Parliament. In Poland there are silent heroes who, doing great things, saving thousands of lives, sacrificing their entire lives for the common good, leave this world in silence and oblivion. It is a sad fact, on the one hand, because we need patterns of beautiful life and public activity, but on the other hand the fact is comforting, because in times of overwhelming political marketing, loud emphasis on their dubious merits and arrogant self-promotion still in Poland are people for whom modesty, meekness and humility are the inner need of their noble souls. That's the kind of man Fr. Henryk Korza, a prominent sobriety minister who died on 9 September at the home of retired priests in Łomża. He lived 80 years, of which 55 years in the priesthood, which he devoted to a case of extremely difficult, which means going under the current common in Poland to the custom and social consent to drunkenness. This priest, beloved by his disciples, treated what modern medicine does not even try to cure - human souls. Thousands of people thanks to priests such as Fr. Henryk Korza and the sobriety ministry developed in the Polish Church broke up with the addictions, returned to her families and began a new, worthy life, living the fullness of humanity. The movement of sobriety started in the 19th century in the Polish Church was created in response to the social plague of drunkenness, which was not only a huge social problem, but also a serious threat to national affairs during the fight for the rebirth of the homeland. This problem returned again during August 1980, when the strikers were pouring vodka into the gutters. This little-known and underappreciated aspect of Polish freedom efforts - the fight against internal slavery - is a glorious card of our history and history of the Church in Poland. High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Giving tribute to the deceased Fr. Henry Korza, at the same time, I would like to pay tribute to all those who, like Fr. Jan Kapica, Fr. Jan Alojzy Ficek, murdered in Dachau Fr. Józef Czempiel or Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki, imprisoned twice on the same death row, once by the Nazis, twice by the Communists, dedicated their lives to the sobriety of the nation. I would also like to honor those who are continuing this work today in their homeland and in the Church. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u686	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jack Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u687	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Great Honorable Colleagues, Highest Pedagogical Gremium in Poland - gathered from yesterday to 23 September this year. at the 9th National Pedagogical Convention in Bialystok! This year's convention takes place under the slogan of a very significant, namely, it directs our intellectual reflection, but also the axiological or functional one towards the slogan: "For a valuable life." Ideas - concepts - practice. By sharing this sensitivity with the entire community of Polish educators, I would like to inform you that the echo of the inaugural speech of the Congressman Prof. Zbigniew Kwieciński reaches the village as well. They arouse our special attention in the practice of doing our own valuable life in the various stages of its development, course of biography and roles that we happen to play in life. It is reasonable to acknowledge that here in the Polish Parliament, the pedagogical invitation from the Białystok convention seems to be very valuable and binding. It is also an encouragement to us to self-reflexion and humble reflection. Prof. Kwieciński's inaugural presentation and the richness of pedagogical reflection on upbringing to humanity brings a universal imperative - from the change made in itself, in the full perspective of our humanity, we build up hope for a chance to make the world and people around us better. There are several criteria that can make this process active and effective. First of all, one should awaken from the lethargy of consciousness, separate from the main transmitters and turn on thinking, replace the declaration with actions and assume that the other person next to me is worth knowing, carries within himself the inspiring mystery of her/his humanity, which I kindly accept. I greet you, colleagues, Polish educators gathered at the 9th educational reunion in Bialystok. I wish the offer of positive pedagogy to spread effectively in our individual and community lives. In time for your deliberations of all good and good speeches. Greetings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u688	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice. There isn't. I would like to ask Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. In that case, I invite Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u689	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I've seen a lot of movies about extraterrestrials, hence my concern and concern that in the Seym we have politicians not of this land. And yet, according to our electoral authority, all parliamentarians' mandates are assigned to human representatives from the various electoral districts that lie within our country. Such mandates do not even belong to our fellow countrymen who live on Earth outside the borders of the country. Meanwhile, my, and not only my, observations of some parliamentarians of the present Sejm lead to doubts, bordering almost certainly, that they are aliens separated from reality, living in their world and realities far from Polish normality. It's not true that aliens have to stand out in appearance. They don't have to be green people, humanoids or creatures with antennas on their heads. Science fiction writers often emphasize that there may be other people on Earth, aliens who are no different from normal human beings from the outside, but are really aliens from another planet. These visitors are usually intelligent and are associated with modern technology. Personally, I think I've seen through them. I dare say they came from the moon. Like every crew, they have their boss, of course, and that's what he says. They betrayed their origins. He is the one who, judging others, often uses the adjective of the Moon, speaking of views, programs, ideas of others. How would he know what that means if it weren't for the experience of being on the moon? He's the only one who doesn't make lunar promises. In these films, even though aliens look like humans, they always have something that reveals their origin. Yes, they are even prepared to answer a number of questions, in many areas, in the event of slavery and possible investigations and threats of deconspiracy, but it is possible to bend them. We're witnessing it. Probably the said boss would know the date of the Battle of Grunwald and even the October Revolution, but already with the May bombing he twisted and placed it in 1935, and with the Sejm he made deaf. Similarly, he knows our religious festivals, but of the Three Kings he has become six. He also sometimes confuses geography with nature, Rubicon becomes Rubicon and Prime Minister Cameron becomes Cameroon. As for this geography, he probably didn't have any human teachers, and from the Moon you probably can't see all the countries at once, because he counted a hundred and thirty pairs of them all over the Earth. Or was he wrong about the song about Virgil's father's children? As an extraterrestrial, he knows without a doubt that the north, the south, the east and the west are not where we all think they are. That's what the astronauts said. On the moon, compasses go crazy. Finally, it's a sense of greatness that aliens have. They're the ones giving the presidential exposé, they're the ones putting the presidents and prime ministers before the State Court, they're the ones calling for early elections. The only question I have is that according to data collected by NASA on the basis of reports of people who have seen UFOs, these aliens who are indistinguishable from humans are most often blonde and have blue eyes. Well, maybe there are exceptions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u690	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club. You're an MP because I can't see? There isn't. We have exhausted the list of Members who have been enrolled in the statements. Mr Tomasz Kostus has made a statement in writing. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u691	Low-emission statement. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've got autumn and winter ahead, which isn't weird in temperate climates. The weird thing is that every year we go back to the subject of low emissions. High density regions have had a very serious problem with low emissions for years. Conferences and meetings take place, there is an exchange of views at the levels of urban and voivodship authorities, there are articles promoting people who manage voivodship environmental funds, and the problem is growing and still unsolved. It is these actions that actually consume and consume public finances. The local authorities declared, quote: In order to improve the air status of Silesian cities, it requires not only large money, but first, considerable changes in the law, secondly, good coordination at regional level and thirdly, strong determination to educate the inhabitants still smoking in garbage furnaces or low-quality fuel (https: / /www. wfosigw.katowice. en/aktua/nosci/247-in-fight-z-low-emission-in-slas kich-city. html). In the meantime, I quote: Applications for funding to launch preventive actions will be accepted from 11 to 22 July 2016 at 10 p.m. 7.30 to 15.30 (...) or send by post (decides the date of impact to the fund). In a word, those who managed to get funding, and the lucky ones were ok. 370, they have a busy autumn ahead of them, but those who will breathe in the smog air will not feel the breath of fresh air for a moment. 4 million people will still suffocate, more than 370 renovated houses will not bring relief to the choking region. I ask where there are mandatory solutions - the practical ones that are spoken of, and yes, at dozens of conferences, but they are only spoken of. What about European funds, why are they still unused? In the middle of the summer, in the middle of July, who found out and could submit an application in WFOŚiGW - some lucky lucky guy who gave up to install a boiler on holiday? Not to mention the time of receipt of applications: 7. Thirty-fifty-five-thirty. After all, all WFOŚiGW customers certainly do not have vacations at this time, are eagerly waiting for the announcement of the fund and are more happy to take one day's leave to submit an application on time. I'll be careful: it's a joke not to say it's a joke about the client and all of us. Silesia is suffocating, but we're gonna move it at the next conference, and if we start talking, the problem will solve itself. It's ironic, but bitter irony. Every year in Silesia during the autumn-winter period, we lock the windows in our homes so as not to smother. The situation described would be suitable for cabaret, but I don't think it's funny. Data on serious respiratory diseases and related complications leading to premature death, which are directly related to the inhalation of floating toxic compounds, are facts. Apparently, the lack of imagination of officials is a worse disease when it comes to the consequences of poor governance, which will affect everyone equally, also officials, although they do not think they are affected by this problem. I hope that those responsible for regional environmental funds, currently managed by POs and PSL, do not have bad will and want to fix the growing problem or something else. Maybe these programs are targeted at a particular group of people? I think we could use a thorough analysis here and a background check on the principle of public spending. I have really been observing this amazing situation for years, and I do not understand why, with such enormous financial resources, it is impossible to solve it, or at least focus on ecological solutions that are good for everyone, to target a strategy that is not there. It is an interesting subject and material for studies, even I would say, scientific. One thing's for sure: if you don't know what's going on, it's about the money. But where does she go?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u692	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The year 1999 is important in the history of Polish customs administration. It was then passed and entered into force on the first act relating to the Customs Service: the Customs Service Act. In accordance with its regulations, a uniform uniform uniform Customs Service was established to ensure the legality of imports of goods into the Polish customs territory and exports of goods from the Polish customs territory. In addition to the detailed definition of the rights and obligations of customs officers, the Act appointed 21 September on Customs Day. In the Customs Service, which is understood as chambers and customs offices, more than 14 thousand are employed. officers, including customs officers for special tasks, who form mobile groups carrying out checks, inter alia. on the communication routes. According to Art. 2 (2) 1 The Customs Service Act of 27 August 2009 belongs to the Customs Service's tasks, inter alia.: control of compliance with customs legislation and other provisions relating to the export and import of goods, carrying out the activities related to the granting of customs goods, the dimension and collection of customs duties and other charges relating to the import and export of goods, the dimension and collection of VAT on imports of goods and services - VAT - for import of goods, control, special tax supervision, the dimension and collection of excise duties, the control of games and betting, the performance of tasks arising from the Act of 19 November 2009 on gambling relating in particular to the granting of concessions and authorisations, the approval of regulations and the registration of equipment, recognition, prevention and detection of tax offences and tax offences, etc. Thanks to their diligent work, about 90 billion PLN per year is added to the state budget, which is 33% all his income. This year's Celebration of the Customs Service will take place in the shadow of the adoption of the Act on National Tax Administration, which, according to the bill, would start functioning on 1 January 2017, and its main task is to consolidate the Customs and Tax Service and tax control offices. The explanatory memorandum to the project shows the main objectives of setting up the CAS. Allow me to mention some of them: reducing the scale of tax fraud, increasing the efficiency of collection of tax and customs duties, increasing the level of voluntary compliance with tax obligations, providing customer service at a high level, reducing the cost of functioning of the tax administration in relation to the level of revenue generated, developing professional staff. The same justification goes on to state that maintaining the current state in which the tax, customs and fiscal administration does not act according to uniform procedures is undoubtedly detrimental to the level of collection of tax liabilities due and the state budget, and therefore the capacity of government authorities to perform their functions, as well as the level of voluntary fulfilment of public obligations. Due to the weaknesses of the tax administration indicated above, the administrative costs of tax collection in Poland are too high. Does this mean that the existing customs offices and chambers do not comply with the tasks imposed by the Customs Service Act? Does this mean that the staff of the currently operating customs offices and offices do not provide customers with a high level of service, or does this mean that there is no possibility for professional staff to develop in the currently functioning customs offices and chambers? According to you, the head of the tax office, which will take over the competence of the former head of the tax office and the head of the customs office in the area of inter alia. the collection of taxes, customs duties, charges and non-tax fiscal duties, as well as other charges on the basis of separate rules or the execution of administrative cash claims, or the newly established head of the customs and treasury office, which will carry out tasks related inter alia. with the execution of customs-credit controls, the fixing and determination of taxes, levies and non-tax fiscal duties and other charges under separate provisions, or the covering of goods with customs procedures and other activities provided for in customs legislation, will the tasks related to the collection of tax and customs duties be carried out in a consistent and uniform manner? From this point of view, I would like to call on the project's applicants to withdraw this project at this stage of the process, because it is destroying the Customs Service's work so far, which is sufficient to reform and combine the common information exchange system and to give it greater autonomy, and the effects of greater influences on the state budget will be visible in a faster time and less cost. By taking this opportunity, I sincerely thank all the Customs staff for their commitment, great dedication, as well as a worthy attitude and exemplary service to our country. I am convinced that this year's celebrations will become an excellent opportunity for the rulers to reflect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u693	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The second half of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century are the times when the development of information technology in Poland and the world took place. We entered the Internet 24 hours a day, where there were numerous opinions and beliefs that computers would soon wipe out traditional books and newspapers. Children in schools will only use laptops, and ordinary writing and manuscripts will only be seen in museums. Today we know that nothing can replace a traditional book. That's why I'm proposing to create a manuscript museum, and I'm asking for it. I consider this matter important for Polish culture. Polish literature has a rich history, and the works of our national writers are widespread and recognized around the world. Each of us knows great Polish poets and writers: Adam Mickiewicz, Juliusz Słowacki, Bolesław Prus or Henryk Sienkiewicz. Today we also have many Polish writers who are known all over the world, and their works are published in hundreds of thousands of copies. So I asked the Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Piotr Gliński to consider the idea of creating a national museum of manuscripts. This would be a place of multilateral application, first of all, to which authors could give their works and where they would be properly stored, because what is normal for us today is going to create a story that we will really appreciate and which will gain true value only in a dozen or dozen years, second, in which we could collect works and souvenirs of well-known Polish creators, which for various reasons are not available at present. In addition, such a museum is an excellent place to show the history of literature, writing forms and other curiosities related to this field. As of today, there is no such place in Poland, and works are stored in various museums. However, there is limited access for outsiders, and this is our common national good, which should be disseminated. Anyone interested should have an insight into it. It should be emphasized that not all monuments of Polish literature in present places of storage are properly secured, and we cannot afford any loss in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-sejm-26-2.u694	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 23 September 2016, by 3 p.m. 9. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 48]]
