ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Mr Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha, Mr Truskolas and Mr Monika Wielichowska to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members of King Gajewska-Płochock and Arkadiusz Myrch will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka and Krzysztof Truskolaski. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Infrastructure - hour 9, - Legislative together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights - at 3 p.m. 9, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Economy and Development - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - Culture and Media - hour 9.30 a.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Culture and Media - hour 10, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 10.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 12, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Culture and Media - hour 15, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 3.30 p.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 16, - Public Finance - hour. 16, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 17, - Foreign Affairs - hour 5:30 p.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 19. Communication on the meetings of the teams. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Regulation of Property Relations - h. 9, - Parliamentary Group for: people with visual impairment - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 12, - The Parliamentary Group of the child's well-being as the highest objective - hour. 12.30, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: public health together with the Parliamentary Panel on Oncology - hour 17, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u3	Thank you very much, Member. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on corporate income tax, amending the Act on public-funded healthcare provision and certain other laws, amending the Act on public collective transport, and amending the Act on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in public-use airports. The reports shall be printed in 738, 736, 725 and 724 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted a report on a government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights submitted a report on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2015. The committee's report is in print No 737. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including consideration of this information. I propose that the Sejm listen to the ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the Circle in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of points 11, 12 and 13. agenda: 11. Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015 together with an analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy in 2015 and a draft Commission resolution on discharge (prints No 553, 617 and 700). 12. Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the information presented by the President of the Council of Ministers on guarantees and guarantees given in 2015 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego (print Nos 576 and 654). 13. Report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2015 (print No 578) together with the position of the Committee on Public Finance (print No 666). I ask Mr Sasino to present a report to the committee on the report on the implementation of the state budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015 and a draft resolution on discharge.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u4	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I present my report on the implementation of the State budget in 2015, I would like to start by presenting the conditions for the implementation of the budget in this year. From today's perspective, we can conclude that the 2015 budget was implemented in relatively favourable macroeconomic conditions. GDP growth in fixed prices was 3.6% and was higher than assumed by 0,2 percentage points. It was also almost twice as high as in the European Union, where it amounted to around 2%. However, it is worth taking into account the high share of the shadow economy, which is not part of GDP. On the basis of data from the Central Statistical Office, the Ministry of Finance and the Market Economy Research Institute, it can be concluded that the share of the grey area in the adjusted GDP was as high as 19,2% in 2015. However, the pace of growth, as well as the dynamics of budgetary revenue, was so unstable last year that the new government, having worrying data from the implementation of the budget for three quarters, and only in some cases in 11 months' time, was forced to revise the budget. The purpose of this amendment was to safeguard against the negative effects of much lower than planned tax revenues, especially VAT receipts. In addition, the aim was to reduce and implement expenditure due to, inter alia, to the proposed blockades and reductions of transfers, as well as the security of resources for the common agricultural policy. As we approximate the conditions for the implementation of the last year's budget, we can remind you that GDP growth has risen from approx. 3% in the first half of the year to more than 4% in the last quarter. This was mainly due to an accelerated domestic demand, which was accompanied by the continuation of a favourable trade balance. During the first half of the year, fast-growing investment expenditures played a major role in growth, while in the second half of the year consumption. However, on an annual basis, GDP components such as investment, domestic demand and imports, and higher public consumption and exports, have proved to be worse than those adopted for budget construction. The economic situation of Poland during 2015 proved to be quite favourable, although it was accompanied by uncertainty about the development of the situation throughout Europe and around the world. The continuation of the Ukrainian crisis, along with other worrying signals for investors, including in particular the dangerous development of the situation in the Middle East and the destabilising Europe of the refugee crisis, led to increased demand for safe currencies, especially for the dollar and Swiss franc, and consequently to strengthening these currencies in relation to emerging currencies, including the gold ones. The growing concern also caused the risk of explosions of the so-called. the third phase of the global financial crisis related to corporate over-indebtedness in parts of developing countries. In particular, the economic climate in Europe, especially in the case of export-based German economy, has had a strong negative impact on the economic downturn in China since many quarters. Against the background of global uncertainty, the economic performance shown in Poland in 2015 can therefore be considered rather satisfactory. It also shows that production has been steadily increasing and that the unemployment rate has fallen to an unlisted one-digit level since years. Good results were recorded in exports, with moderate import dynamics. This reduced the current account deficit to a very low level - 0.2% GDP - reducing Poland's exposure to possible disturbances in global financial flows. At the same time, the state of public finances has been improved and Poland has managed to reduce the public sector deficit below the 3% required by the EU treaties for the first time since the global crisis. GDP, although this was mainly due to the transfer of funds from OFE, as will be further mentioned. During the whole of 2015 there was a slight deflation, but resulting mainly not from the lack of money on the market, but from low world commodity prices. This phenomenon was probably objectively beneficial - I am talking about the prices of raw materials - for the Polish economy, but it caused perturbation in mining. Deflation led the National Bank of Poland to lower interest rates to historically low levels, as well as forced the government to take action to restructure mining. A clear negative financial shock was the sharp weakening of the golden course against the franc in January 2015, resulting from the change in the exchange rate policy of the Swiss National Bank. To sum up, despite the moderately favorable global situation, Poland's economic situation developed in 2015 in a rather favourable way, facilitating the implementation of the budget. This was supported mainly by the dynamics of domestic demand. However, a factor that hindered the situation was much longer than the expectations of deflation. When assessing the overall situation of Polish public finances in 2015, it should be noted first of all that during the year it was possible to reduce the scale of government and local government deficits below the 3% treaty limit. GDP, which was also a follow-up to financial recovery. On 19 June 2015, the Ecofin Council adopted a decision terminating the excessive deficit procedure for Poland, which reduced the excessive deficit one year earlier than recommended by the Council. The completion of the procedure and the theoretical improvement of the financial situation were directly linked to the acquisition by the government of PLN 153 billion in 2014, of assets from open pension funds transferred to the Social Security Office. The transfer resulted in a reduction in the 2014 deficit by PLN 23 billion in connection with a reduction in public debt expenditure and a reduction in transfers to the Social Insurance Fund. The acquisition of funds from OFE also resulted in a direct reduction of the public debt by PLN 130 billion. However, these achievements should not obscure two serious problems for years before Polish public finances. The first of these problems is due to the fact that in 2015 the fundamental systemic weakness of public finances, resulting from the very high share of rigid expenditure and the unfavourable structure of budgetary expenditure, i.e. the dominance of current and consumer expenditure over developmental expenditure, was not overcome. The second problem concerns the fact that, despite the fact that Poland has taken the excessive deficit procedure and the deficit reduction below the accepted criterion, due to the degree of imbalance in public finances, it is still impossible to ensure that the fiscal standards in force in the Economic and Monetary Union continue to be met in a sustainable manner. This can be demonstrated, among others. that, in the latest update of the convergence programme, the government assumed an increase in the structural deficit in 2016 to 3,1% GDP of 2,3% GDP in 2015 and an increase in general government deficit of 2.6% GDP of up to 2.9% this year GDP in 2017 and debt growth from 51.3% GDP in 2015 to 52.5% GDP in 2017, with the European Commission's forecasts even more pessimistic in this respect. In addition, the Supreme Audit Chamber points out that the rise in 2015 of the State's public debt and sovereign debt to comparable levels in 2013 shows that the effects of the change in the pension system in 2014 have been lost, which may also make it difficult to meet fiscal standards on a sustainable basis. The return of public debt to the level before the transfer of assets from OFE indicates that pension funds have been consumed by the State. In summary, the transfer of funds from OFE did not improve the financial situation, only increased the indicators for the period in which it took place. In conclusion, it should be noted that Poland in 2015 met the fiscal criteria of economic and monetary union for the first time in years, which should be considered a positive phenomenon regardless of the circumstances I have just mentioned. On the other hand, there are still weaknesses in Poland's public finances, and therefore the process of public finance reform should continue, and efforts to consolidate and improve the structure of Polish public finances are still necessary. When discussing revenue and expenditure and the balance of the budget in 2015, it can be concluded that tax revenues have been significantly lower than those originally established in the budget, as much as PLN 10.1 billion, i.e. by 3.8% , which resulted from a clear overestimation of VAT revenues, up to PLN 11.5 billion, i.e. 8,5% the total revenue assumed. Much lower than the assumed VAT revenue was the most serious problem in the implementation of the budget. To show its scale, I will compare the situation of this year with that of 2014, when VAT revenues amounted to PLN 124 262 million. In 2015, they amounted to PLN 123 120 million. The decrease in these revenues was therefore recorded by almost PLN 1 billion. However, the greatest impact on the decrease in VAT revenue is due to the persistence of a negative trend related to its fraud. According to the Supreme Audit Chamber, tax authorities detected fictional invoices for 2013 for a total amount of PLN 19.7 billion, already PLN 33.7 billion in 2014 and as much as PLN 81.9 billion in 2015. Moreover, the low efficiency of the recovery of the tax due resulted in a sharp increase in VAT arrears, from PLN 5.1 billion at the end of 2013 to PLN 14.1 billion at the end of June 2015. In the assessment of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the possibilities for recovery of these amounts are limited. It should therefore be pointed out that a serious gap in VAT receipts has persisted in 2015 to show that the measures taken to improve its collection during that period have proved insufficient. The Supreme Chamber of Control has called for, among others. to improve the situation in this respect, the reorganisation of tax services and the creation of a central computer register of VAT invoices. These actions were not taken in 2015, but were announced by the government in 2016. [[They've been taken.]] The forecast of other budget revenue outside VAT was generally correct except for slightly overestimated excise revenue. The remaining revenue exceeded the expected revenue, in particular the revenue of the budgetary units, despite the transfer to 2016 of auction payments to the LTE frequency reservation. This allowed for a partial complement to the VAT deficit. As a result, total budget revenue amounted to PLN 289.1 billion in 2015 and turned out to be PLN 8.1 billion, i.e. 2.7% , lower than that provided for in the original budget law and by PLN 2.4 billion, i.e. 0.8% , higher than that provided for in the amendment of this law. The expenditure of the state budget amounted to PLN 331.7 billion, i.e. significantly lower than that of the original law, as much as PLN 11.6 billion, i.e. 3.4% , and lower than foreseen in the amended act by PLN 4.9 billion, i.e. 1.5%. This was achieved mainly by reducing the expenditure of current budgetary units and expenditure on co-financing Union programmes, as well as by lower than projected expenditure on public debt management. As a result, the deficit amounted to PLN 42.6 billion in 2015. It turned out to be lower by PLN 3.5 billion, i.e. 7.7% , compared to the original law and by PLN 7.4 billion, i.e. by 14,8% , lower than the deficit provided for in the amended act. When assessing the implementation of revenue and expenditure in relation to the initial and revised budget law for 2015, it must be concluded that it has been carried out with distortions in relation to that provided for in the original act due to the significant revaluation of VAT receipts, and that this implementation has been satisfactory in relation to the amended act. Thanks to the savings achieved on the expenditure side, it was possible not to exceed the deficit level for both the original and the revised law. The implementation of the basic size of the budget shows that the 2015 budget implementation report deserves to be adopted. In quite favourable economic conditions, despite problems with the implementation of the assumed VAT revenue, the savings on the expenditure side managed to keep the budget deficit below the level assumed both in the original and in the revised budget law. I will move on to other aspects of budget implementation. The expenditure of the budget of European funds was realized in 2015 in the amount of PLN 67.7 billion. They accounted for 97.9% the plan after the changes. Compared to the 2014 performance, they were lower by 1%. In 2015, the Council Poland has received PLN 65.4 billion from the European Union budget, while PLN 18.2 billion has been paid to the European Union budget. This means that the Polish economy gained net funds of PLN 47.2 billion. Among the new Member States of the European Union, Poland remained the main recipient of direct payments under the common agricultural policy and was the largest beneficiary of cohesion policy and the Rural Development Programme. The implementation of selected strategic objectives identified, inter alia, in the long-term development strategy of the country. Poland 2030 and the country 2020 strategy, whose assumptions are correlated with the European Europe 2020 programming document and nine integrated strategies, have been satisfactory, albeit in a diverse way. For example, the European Commission has assessed that, within the framework of the national targets set under the Europe 2020 strategy, Poland has achieved good results in the areas of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and higher education, while pointing out that greater efforts are needed to increase employment rates, investment in R &amp; D, renewable energy, reducing early school leaving and reducing poverty. With regard to the long-term development strategy of the country. Poland 2030. The third wave of modernity and the country's 2020 strategy for development, the lack of publication on the value of most indicators of their implementation in 2015 prevented an assessment of the current state of implementation. However, the data presented indicated that achieving the objectives envisaged in the strategy could not be realistic. Nevertheless, the long time horizon of implementation offers an opportunity to achieve results similar to those planned. In 2015 a limit of 200 billion PLN guarantees and guarantees was set in the Budget Act. This limit was used in the amount of approx. PLN 8.5 billion, i.e. 4,3%, which should be assessed positively in view of the preventive nature of the above measures to safeguard the potential use of the Treasury guarantee in order to support those at risk of possible consequences of the financial and economic crisis. Compared to 2014, the use of the State Treasury guarantees and guarantees was lower, but also the threat of the crisis was clearly weaker. The State Treasury's potential non-reliability on guarantees and guarantees at the end of 2015 amounted to PLN 113.2 billion. This meant that they increased by PLN 2.4 billion compared to 2014. The largest amount of guarantees and guarantees was used by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego - PLN 76.5 billion, which represented 67.6% the share of the total amount of potential non-required liabilities at the end of 2015. At the same time, the share of commitments included in the category of commitments with an average risk of their repayment from the budget was 17.4% at the end of 2015. , and in the category of low-risk liabilities - 82,6%. None of the guarantees were classified as higher or high risk commitments and therefore the increase in potential non-required liabilities of the State Treasury was not too high and the share of medium risk liabilities remained low acceptable. The Treasury debt at the end of 2015 amounted to PLN 834.5 billion, which means that it increased by PLN 54.6 billion during the year. The main reason for the increase in this debt was the financing of the government budget deficit and the deficit of the European budget of PLN 45.8 billion and the loans from the State budget granted to the Social Insurance Institution to finance the current activities of the Social Insurance Fund of PLN 5.5 billion, as well as the loss of contributions from the FUS to open pension funds of PLN 3.1 billion. Moreover, due to exchange rate differences, the Treasury's debt increased by PLN 8.8 billion. The share of national debt in total debt was 65.1% , and foreign debt - 34,9% As of the end of 2014, these shares have changed by 0.6 percentage points in favour of national debt. The net lending needs of the state budget amounted to PLN 53.8 billion last year and were PLN 4.9 billion lower than planned. The financing of loan needs was mainly obtained through debt issuance, i.e. 35 billion PLN, of which the issue of treasury securities on the domestic market was 89.5% , and from debt to foreign markets - 10.5%. It was possible to reduce external financing due to the reduction of lending needs and the possibility of obtaining funds on the domestic market under favourable conditions. The Minister of Finance also used gold and currency funds collected on the accounts at the National Bank of Poland and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego to finance loan needs. The use of consolidation funds for the day-to-day management of the State budget has allowed for a reduction in the issuance of treasury securities. This solution was beneficial as the cost of raising funds from the issuance of treasury securities would be higher than the cost of raising funds as a result of consolidation. The higher level of net lending needs compared to 2014 was due to the need to finance a higher government budget deficit. The negative aspect of budget implementation was that in 2015 the level of arrears towards the state budget amounted to PLN 76,9 billion. However, it should be noted that this was partly the result of an increased frequency of detection of irregularities during tax checks, with a lower number of checks carried out. This may indicate an improvement in the selection of operators for control, but also the persistence of the large size of the grey economy and the still high risk of tax fraud. In 2015, average employment in the national economy amounted to 9789 thousand. people and was 0.9% higher compared to the previous year. Average employment in state budget units amounted to 563 000. people and was down by 2.8 thousand. people compared to average employment over the last 4 years. At the same time, last year's employment growth in the processing industry was quite strong, by 2.5%. in relation to 2014, and in trade, by 2,2%. Indeed, because by 7.6% , employment in the information and communication industry, including IT services and the activities of telecommunications companies, has increased. Employment in public administration and national defence was maintained at almost unchanged level from 2014. 1.2% Employment in the education sector has increased. The average monthly gross remuneration was 4.2% in 2015 higher than in 2014. According to the Central Statistical Office, wages in the sector of enterprises employing more than 9 persons increased by 4.5% , and salaries in the budgetary sphere - 3.4% , while the average monthly payment of the pension benefit from the Social Insurance Fund amounted to PLN 1967.16 and was 3.4% higher in relation to the previous year. The average pension financed by the pension fund of KRUS amounted to PLN 1054,50 in 2015 and was higher by PLN 44 compared to the previous year. The number of unemployed registered at employment offices at the end of 2015 amounted to around 1.6 million people and was lower by around 262 thousand. persons than at the end of 2014. The unemployment rate at the end of 2015 was 9.8% , which means that it decreased by 1.6 percentage points compared to the previous year. The long-term unemployment rate decreased to 3% in 2015 and was lower than the European Union average of 4.5%. The unemployment rate was also low among older workers aged 50 to 64, which in the fourth quarter of 2015 was the lowest in at least 10 years and was 4.9%. at the EU average 6,9. Poland coped with youth unemployment much worse. In 2015, the unemployment rate in Poland among people under the age of 25 was 20.8% , i.e. it was higher than the average in the European Union, although slightly. In the European Union, this indicator is 20.3%. In 2015 15.5% Polish residents were at risk of relative poverty compared to 18.1% Ten years earlier. This means that despite favourable economic changes in Poland, there was still a large group of households at risk of poverty. I will now turn to the committee's work directly on the 2015 budget implementation report. During the work on the 2015 budget implementation report, the Committee on Public Finances considered, in accordance with the order of the Marshal of the Sejm, the budgetary parts in its competence as well as those which were the subject of the work of other committees. Other committees have submitted 25 opinions to the Committee on Public Finance, including four opinions resulting from the joint work of the Joint Committees. All the opinions submitted were positive, although the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development expressed a negative opinion with regard to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, indicating that the negative opinion on the implementation of the budget in this part is due to irregularities in expenditure found during the audit carried out by the Supreme Chamber of Control for a total amount of PLN 573 900, including those in breach of law - 489 thousand. zł. These included: on the non-compliant classification of expenditure on modernization works in the building of the UOKiK included for renovation instead of property expenditure on investments, non-compliance with a contractual penalty of 16,2 thousand. PLN and expenditure of part of the funds received from the general reserve not in accordance with the purpose for which they were granted. At the same time, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development informed the Committee on Public Finance that, in view of the findings of the checks indicating an infringement in the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection of Public Finance discipline, the Supreme Audit Office would send an appropriate notice to the competent Ombudsman of public finance discipline. The explanations made in the Committee on Public Finance indicated, inter alia, that for Part 53: the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the Supreme Audit Chamber issued a descriptive opinion because the criteria for a positive and negative assessment were not met. A representative of the Chamber, giving a detailed response to the irregularities found during the inspection at that office, informed that the office had raised objections to the opinion of the NIK, but the College of the House rejected these objections. The Public Finance Commission considered the report on the implementation of the State budget in 2015 at meetings held from 22 June to 6 July inclusive. During her meetings, the Committee on Public Finance took note of the opinions of other committees, the opinions of the referees, the positions of the Supreme Audit Chamber paying attention to the shortcomings and irregularities found and the studies of the Sejm Analysis Office. The members of the committee asked questions, a discussion took place, although some parts of the budget were not discussed, because they were adopted immediately after the information was submitted. The materials did not raise any objections. During committee meetings, additional explanations were provided by representatives of the ministries and other budget managers, and some budget managers were asked to submit detailed explanations in writing at a later date. In particular, this was the case, among others. effects of restructuring of mining, trade in green certificates in the context of the climate package and revenues from this and the amount of subsidies for local government units over the longer term, taking into account the number of pupils and the announced education reform. In view of the positive opinions of the committees and the members of the referees, with one exception concerning part 53, as I said earlier, the Committee on Public Finance received without objection positive opinions on the implementation of the state budget in individual parts, special funds, executive agencies and other forms of economic activity. Discussions at committee meetings and the findings of the NIK indicate that, however, there are a number of challenges for the institutions responsible for public finances that should be taken into account in their future activities. There are also a few problems that the Committee on Public Finance will address in the near future. As regards matters relating to the work of the Committee on Public Finances on the report on the implementation of the last year's budget, the High House should be informed that the President of the Supreme Audit Board informed the Committee on Public Finance, inter alia, at the last meeting of the committee on the examination of the report on the implementation of the budget on 6 July. that on 8 June the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber adopted a resolution on discharge for the Council of Ministers, expressing a positive opinion, noting that the state budget and the budget of the European funds were implemented in accordance with the revised budget law. Budget revenue was 0.8% higher in relation to the plan and expenditure reduced by 1.5%. The planned deficit of PLN 50 billion amounted to PLN 42.6 billion and the revenue generated allowed to finance around 87% expenditure of the budget. The report on the implementation of the budget shows a fair picture of the implementation of the state budget, but it was noted that the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund further deteriorated despite a higher grant from the state budget by about PLN 11.7 billion. In 2015 there was also a deterioration in the fiscal income ratio of the public finance sector of GDP to 18.3% from 18.6% In 2014, the College of NIK pointed out the need to take further steps to seal the tax system. The House audited 109 parts of the budget and, on the basis of the assessment methodology developed, did not issue any negative assessment for the implementation of the last year's budget - it welcomed 91 parts of the budget and applied a descriptive assessment in respect of 18 parts due to failure to meet the positive and negative assessment criteria. Recent experience with budget control shows the need for more control of the units subject to the ministers. The President informed the committees of the irregularities that had occurred at the Institute for Environmental Protection, which had not previously been audited, with regard to the conclusion, implementation and clearance of civil law contracts within the framework of the commercial activities carried out by the Institute, as well as the personal decisions taken, i.e. the change of the Director of the Institute. In conclusion, the NIK's assessments for the implementation of the budget in 2015 were slightly better than for the implementation of the budget in 2014, although the conditions for the implementation of the budget were still complex. On 6 July, the committee also voted on the negative opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development with regard to Part 53: the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and adopted a draft resolution presented to the High House. In this draft, the committee proposes, in point I, the adoption of a report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015, and in point II, the granting of discharge to the Council of Ministers for that period, and in two subsequent points, to draw attention to irregularities in the implementation of the State budget in Part 53: the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and to actions to address other irregularities identified by the Supreme Audit Chamber. other budget managers, too. In conclusion, the committee requests the Sejm to adopt a draft resolution contained in the Seym printing no. 700. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u5	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present an analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy assumptions in 2015 and an opinion on discharge for the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! In fulfilling the obligation under Article. 204 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Supreme Audit Chamber an analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy objectives together with the opinion of the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber on discharge for the Council of Ministers for 2015. [[President of the Supreme Chamber of Control Krzysztof Kwiatkowski illustrates his speech with slides]] Following a review of the implementation of the State budget and an analysis of the findings made in the course of the review, the Supreme Audit Office positively assessed the implementation of the 2015 budget law. In practice, due to parliamentary elections and a change of government, the evaluation of execution is an evaluation of the work of the two governments. The Supreme Audit Chamber, with the reservations indicated in the analysis, welcomed the keeping of accounts for the implementation of the State budget and the budget of European funds and the reliability of the annual accounts. The NIK also considered that the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015 presents in all material respects a true picture of revenue, expenditure, receivables and liabilities. These assessments were drawn up on the basis of the results of the controls in 230 entities. Nearly 27% of these controls have been examined in detail. State budget and European budget expenditure of nearly PLN 108 billion. The reliability of the accounting records and the budgetary reporting were confirmed after checking the accounting evidence of 29% expenditure of the state budget and of the budget of European funds for a total amount of more than PLN 116 billion. At the same time, it should be emphasised that the control of expenditure made from the accounts of the principal authorising officers, which was initiated in 2015, allowed for a significant increase in the scope of the control, measured by the percentage of the budget expenditure audited. At the same time, this was done without increasing the cost of budgetary control. This is the distinction of this year's budgetary control, i.e. an analysis of implementation for the previous year. It is also worth noting that the percentage of budget expenditure audited by the NIK - which concerns both the total expenditure and the expenditure made by the third-degree managers - is significantly higher than that determined by the commonly used international auditing and financial control practice. On the basis of the findings of the audit, the implementation of the budgets in 109 budgetary parts and the implementation of the financial plans of 35 out-of-budget economy units and special-purpose funds has been assessed. In nearly 4/5 cases, the implementation of budgets and financial plans received a positive assessment, as President Jacek Sasin said. Every fifth part of the budget or the budgetary unit has been found to cause a reduction in the assessment. In these cases, the assessment was presented in a descriptive form in order to best reflect the scale and nature of the irregularity, due to the lack of methodological qualification for a positive or negative assessment. Following a study initiated in the budgetary control, in response to signals indicating significant irregularities in the conclusion of contracts with the staff of the Institute for Environmental Protection - the State Research Institute, I decided to carry out an additional ad hoc check in that unit. It resulted in a negative assessment of the regularity of the conclusion, implementation and settlement of civil law contracts in the context of the commercial activities carried out by the Institute during the period from 1 January 2013 to 20 May 2016. In this institution, NIK questioned in particular the legality of contracts with a total value of over PLN 3 million. The examination of accounts was carried out in 20 budgetary parts. In 17 of them, the reliability of the accounts was positively assessed. In two parts opinions were formulated with reservations, and in one case, i.e. in the Ministry of Justice, no accounts were kept for the authorising officer of the budget, despite the adoption of State budget appropriations of nearly PLN 4.5 billion and the transfer of them to subordinate directors. An examination of the annual accounts was carried out in 101 parts of the budget and 150 responsibilities in the third degree. NIK has given a positive opinion of more than 90% the reports examined. In the Ministry of National Defence, the presentation of the data on additional annual salary obligations, i.e. the so-called. 13th salary. This irregularity consisted in the fact that the authorising officers did not include such obligations in the accounts of the year to which they relate. The Supreme Audit Chamber also concluded that nine budget managers, contrary to the provisions of the Finance Minister's Regulation of 16 January 2014 on budgetary reporting, did not draw up reports at the end of the entitlement to share part and that the reports drawn up did not take account of the creation of new budgetary parts as of 27 November 2015. In our view, this has resulted in a lack of transparency in the implementation of the state budget in this section. The findings of the audit of irregularities in the accounts and budgetary reporting were amended or did not have a significant impact on the compliance of the information and data indicated in the report of the Council of Ministers with the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015 with the provisions in force in this respect. High Seym! In 2015, the state budget and the budget of European funds were implemented in a context of a moderate growth of the European and global economy. Global GDP growth remained at 3.1% 3.4% in 2014 gross domestic product in the European Union increased by 1,9% in 2015 , and in the euro area countries by 1.6%. Against this background, the economic situation of Poland developed positively. In 2015, there was higher economic growth than in 2014. Gross domestic product increased really by 3.6% While the year before the increase was 3.4%. Domestic demand remained the main driver of economic development. The economic recovery was accompanied by an improvement in the labour market situation. The recorded unemployment rate, as has already been mentioned, decreased from 11.8% In 2014 to 9,8% at the end of 2015 Export dynamics were higher than import dynamics. This resulted in an improvement in the balance of trade. In 2015, for the first time since the beginning of the 1990s, there was a surplus in foreign trade in Poland. As a result, the current balance of payments account deficit decreased from 2% GDP in 2014 to 0,2% GDP in 2015. The value of foreign exchange reserves expressed in zlotys increased from PLN 352 300 million to PLN 370 300 million, although this was also influenced by the weakening of the zloty compared to the US dollar and the UK pound. Part of the macroeconomic performance forecasts drawn up for the work on the draft budget law have proved to be inconclusive. This was particularly the case for inflation forecasts. The government assumed that the prices of consumer goods and services would increase by 1.2% in the average annual schedule. In the meantime, they dropped by 0.9%. This resulted in a decrease in revenue from the tax on goods and services estimated according to the assumptions made between PLN 800 million and PLN 2600 million. The draft budget law for 2015 was prepared in accordance with the applicable law. In order to ensure the implementation of the budget law under the conditions of expenditure discipline, remuneration limits have been maintained for most units of the public finance sector and for the managers of public positions. The so-called mechanism was also used. stabilizing the expenditure rule. High Seym! The total revenue of the state budget and the European budget amounted to PLN 353 600 million last year and was slightly higher than the revenue generated in 2014. The revenue of the State budget increased by PLN 5600 million, but it did not reach the level planned in the Budget Act of 15 January 2015 and was lower by PLN 8100 million. Tax revenues had a decisive impact on the volume of income. The revenue from the tax on goods and services was higher than forecasted in the revised Budget Act by PLN 1800 million, but lower than that achieved in the previous year by PLN 1100 million and above the forecast adopted in the Budget Act of 15 January 2015 by PLN 11 500 million. The main reasons for the non-performance of the originally forecasted VAT revenues were the overestimated projections of the tax revenue in 2014 and its deteriorating collection in 2015. On a large scale, invoices documenting fiction have been put into circulation. Those involved in this activity have reduced their tax obligations by using the lack of effective system instruments to address this phenomenon. While the tax authorities were able to detect part of the fraud in this area, it was still low in determining the actual tax fraud organisers and in enforcing the duties imposed by the tax authorities' decisions. Detailed findings on this issue were provided by the Supreme Audit Chamber in the information on the results of the anti-marketing audit of invoices documenting the fictitious activities of April this year. We had the opportunity to present to ladies and gentlemen the information from this audit at the plenary session of the Sejm on 10 June this year. High Seym! The low downloadability of the tax on goods and services in 2015, as I said, was the main prerequisite for amending the budget law. The effectiveness of the collection of public-law danins deteriorated in 2015. The tax and other budgetary arrears at the end of 2015 amounted to PLN 69 900 million and increased by almost 34% compared to the end of 2014. Tax arrears accounted for almost 77% of the total budget of the State. The rate of growth of these arrears was significant. In 2015, it amounted to around 40%. , while in 2014 it was about half lower. On the other hand, revenue from income taxes was fully realised. The income from corporate income tax was higher by PLN 2.5 billion than in 2014 and the income from personal income tax by PLN 2 billion. Non-tax revenues were realised in the amount of PLN 27 700 million, i.e. close to that achieved in the previous year. The expenditure of the State budget and the budget of European funds has been incurred within the limits in force. They amounted to PLN 399 400 million and were higher than the expenditure incurred in 2014 by PLN 18 500 million, i.e. 4.8%. Their growth was mainly due to two causes. Firstly, it was necessary to increase the grant from the State budget to the Social Insurance Fund in order to ensure the payment of pension benefits. Secondly, for 2015, the final settlement of payments resulting from the implementation of the multiannual programme of equipment of the Armed Forces for F-16 multitasking aircraft was carried out. Nearly half of the expenditure of the state budget and the budget of European funds were transfers to other units of the public finance sector. This means that the centralisation of public finances was still high. In the state budget in relation to 2014, most of the expenditure for property, subsidies and subsidies, as well as the European Union's own resources, increased by 2014. The second year in a row decreased expenditure on the Treasury debt service, resulting from a fall in interest rates on both domestic and foreign markets. In the budget of European funds 58% expenditure covered expenditure under the National Strategic Reference Framework and 37% - incurred in financing the common agricultural policy. Other 5% were expenditure on the financial perspective of 2014 and-2020, i.e. newly launched, and other programmes. Poland has been the main beneficiary of funds from the European Union for years. From the 2004 accession to the end of 2015 Poland has received EUR 122 600 million from the European Union budget. [[Applause]] I am talking about this, please, because we have a de facto closed previous budgetary perspective of the European Union. The level of implementation of the use of funds from the European Union, which I will present in a moment, will continue to increase, as in the case of certain projects and programmes, e.g. rail investments, managed to negotiate with the European Commission so-called. phase out projects and enable them to be implemented and settled in the newly launched budgetary perspective. The impact in 2015 was - we are talking about European Union funds - EUR 13 100 million. Since joining the Union, Poland has paid EUR 39 500 million into the EU budget. In 2015, this expenditure amounted to EUR 4300 million. The balance of the financial accounts between Poland and the European Union in 2004 and 2015 was positive and amounted to a total of EUR 83 100 million. In 2015, it amounted to EUR 8800 million. The appropriations for the reimbursement of expenditure on the financing of the National Strategic Reference Framework programmes for the period 2007 to 2013 represented almost half of the revenue from the European Union budget for transfers under the common agricultural policy. Nearly 38% was an agricultural policy. Earlier, the remaining appropriations for these transfers from the Union, as I said, are almost half of the expenditure from the Union budget. The transfers related to the new financial perspective, i.e. for the period 2014-2020, amounted to EUR 1300 million and accounted for 10% all transfers from the budget of the European Union within the newly launched budgetary perspective. A summary of the final budgetary perspective of the European Union from 2007 to 2013 is extremely interesting. In practice, this was the budgetary perspective for 2007 and 2015 due to the principle of settlement N+2, i.e. by 2013 it is 2 years. As I said, there are still some projects in practice that were started in that perspective and which we will also be able to settle. By the end of 2015, the Council adopted Poland used 93% appropriations from the budget of the European Union in the financial perspective of 2007 and 2013. According to the House, this gives good prognosis as to the settlement of the entire 7-year funding period. The House compared the implementation of funds from the budgetary perspective of the European Union, which is behind us, by Poland against other countries. And we really are in the group of the most effective countries in terms of using funds from the European Union budget. Most of the funds that have contributed to Poland have been allocated to improving transport infrastructure, investment in human capital, R &amp; D, innovation, entrepreneurship and environmental protection. However, improving the innovation of the Polish economy through the use of EU funds remains a particular challenge. Although according to the latest innovation ranking announced last week by the European Commission, Poland has improved its position, but we must remember that it has improved it by one place at the expense of Croatia, and this is still the 23rd position among the 28 countries of the European Union, with a considerable distance to the EU average. At an unsatisfactory level, R &amp; D expenditure remains in Poland. In 2015, they accounted for 0.9% GDP, while around 2% across the European Union are allocated to such activities GDP. The economic development of Poland measured by the rate of GDP growth did not translate in a proportionate way into an increase in the wealth of Poles. Between 2000 and 2014, GDP growth of 63% was accompanied by a 41% increase in wages. There was also considerable regional diversity in the wealth of society measured by the purchasing power of the population. The value of purchasing power index in Warsaw was close to 83% in 2015 higher than the national average. The projects financed in the 2014-2020 perspective remained at the initial stage of implementation. Expenditure on the implementation of tasks under the new perspective together with national co-financing amounted to PLN 2.5 billion, i.e. 16.2% the amount entered in the Budget Act and 88% the plan after the changes. The lower expenditure execution was mainly related to the subsequent start of projects, taking into account the fact that the European Commission only approved operational programmes for Poland at the turn of 2014 and 2015. High Seym! In 2015, the government budget deficit amounted to PLN 42 600 million and the deficit of the European budget amounted to PLN 3200 million. The deficit of the state budget was set at 7.5%. lower than originally adopted in the budget law and by almost 15% lower than that specified in the revised Budget Act. The forecast of an increase in the government budget deficit adopted in the revision of the budget law has proved to be incorrect. However, what is more important is that the budget deficit in 2015 was 47%. higher than a year ago. The total deficit of the state budget and the budget of European funds amounted to PLN 45 800 million and increased by PLN 16.5 billion compared to 2014. It was 2.6% GDP, i.e. by 0,9 percentage points more than the previous year. The deficit of the European budget could have been lower as it was not due to the lack of resources for the expenditure of this budget, but was the result of the method adopted by the Minister of Finance for the disposal of funds from the European Union budget. As a result, there was no direct correlation between the amount of money obtained from the European Union and the amount of revenue from the budget of European funds. Supreme Audit Chamber Already in previous years, it pointed to a lack of procedures and a lack of transparency of rules on the transfer of funds from the budget of the European Union and other foreign sources to the revenue of the budget of European funds. The revenue account of the European budget was powered by an arbitrary decision by the Minister of Finance. This practice allowed for any calculation of the amount of revenue realised and thus the result of the budget of European funds. At the end of 2015 European funds of PLN 2300 million remained until settlement. High Seym! In 2015, as in previous years, the Minister of Finance used legal solutions to demonstrate a lower government budget deficit than the economic nature of the operations carried out. These solutions were applied to the financing of the Social Insurance Fund and the purchase of F-16 multi-purpose aeroplanes. The support offered to the Social Insurance Institution consisted in the granting of loans by the State Treasury to provide payments from the Social Insurance Fund and to transfer funds from the State budget to supplement the loss of contributions transferred by the Social Insurance Institution to open pension funds. The total funding from both titles amounted to PLN 8600 million. At the end of 2015, the loan balance reached PLN 45 300 million. The probability that they will be repaid is low. In view of this, the Supreme Audit Chamber maintains the position that we have been passing on for years that all FUS funding should be included in expenditure rather than in expenses, as it is de facto non-refundable and not financed by privatisation revenues. Also part of the multiannual programme of equipment of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland with multi-purpose aircraft was financed from uses, not expenditure of the state budget, because for 1 day a loan was taken to finance this payment. The Supreme Audit Chamber does not dispute the legality of the financing agreements concluded, but notes that the acquisition of aircraft from an economic point of view constituted an investment expense which was not fully disclosed in the budget records. The result of financing the acquisition of assets from the government budget was the demonstration of a lower deficit of the state budget by PLN 1800 million. In summary, if these transfers were eligible for expenditure according to their economic nature, the government budget deficit would be higher by PLN 10 500 million and would amount to PLN 53 billion, including the deficit of the European budget would be PLN 56 300 million. According to the NIK, it is advisable to eliminate, reduce legal solutions which, in our view, ensure less transparency in the public finance economy. The loan needs of the state. Net lending needs amounted to 2015 53 800 million PLN and were lower than planned by 4900 million PLN. The biggest contribution to the development of loan needs was the deficit of the state budget and the funding allocated to the Social Insurance Institution. The funding for the financing of loan needs was mainly obtained through the issuance of debt. National funding was dominated in 2015. It was possible to reduce external financing due to the reduction of lending needs and the possibility of obtaining funds on the domestic market under favourable conditions. We notice this change, and we think it is a positive trend. The Minister of Finance provided full and timely handling of payments of the State budget. The privatisation revenues played a marginal role in financing. In 2015, they amounted to less than PLN 44 million. They were only 3.4% the plan originally adopted in the Budget Act and slightly over 40% the plan after the amendment of this law. Such implementation was influenced by the ownership decisions of the Minister of the Treasury. It was also intended for privatisation of the company, which, as it turned out, were not prepared for this. The risks presented in the document "Directions of privatisation of the State Treasury assets' in 2015 have materialised. In particular, there was a transfer or withdrawal from privatisation contracts due to the investments planned by the companies, the unregulated legal status of the company's real estate or the reprivatisation claims addressed to the companies or simply the lack of interest of investors in the privatisation. High Seym! State special-purpose funds - this is another extremely important topic. In addition to the revenue and expenditure plans of the State budget and the budget of European funds, the Budget Act also includes financial plans for non-budget units in the public finance sector. These included state-owned special-purpose funds, executive agencies, legal entities and budgetary institutions. The share of the State budget transferred in the form of grants to these entities in the total amount of their revenue decreased from 27,1% in 2012 to 26.3% in 2015 However, the sum of funding increased from PLN 63 400 million to PLN 68 100 million. State-owned special-purpose funds were mostly subsidised. The amount of PLN 60 700 million was transferred to them, including the Social Insurance Fund, as I said, was transferred to the amount of PLN 42 billion and the Monetary and Rent Fund - PLN 17 billion. The total operating costs of the special purpose funds and budgetary institutions were higher than the revenue generated. Executive agencies and public legal entities received overall revenues higher than the costs incurred. The financial plans of the audited out-of-budget economy units have in most cases been properly implemented. However, three important issues relating to State-owned special-purpose funds need to be underlined. Firstly, the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund is steadily deteriorating. Its condition fell by PLN 5600 million in 2015, despite obtaining a grant from the state budget of PLN 42 billion. The increasing imbalance between the revenue and expenditure of the Fund poses a risk to the state's finances in the longer term. Secondly, some special-purpose funds have maintained significant cash surpluses, transferred to the finance minister's management. Already in previous years, the House indicated that these measures should primarily serve to finance the tasks for which the funds have been set up. The retention on accounts of a high level of resources shall not contribute to the achievement of the objectives set out in the laws. The largest amount of special-purpose funds at the end of 2015 was transferred to the management by the labour fund manager, it was PLN 5600 million, and the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, it was PLN 3400 million. Thirdly, we see the fragmentation of the financial economy of state-owned special-purpose funds. Of the 29 special-purpose funds operating in 2015, the four largest were 97.7%. Total revenue of funds. The remaining 25 realized only 2,3% the revenues of this group of entities. The Supreme Audit Chamber stresses that a large number of non-budget public finance units and fragmentation of the financial economy increase the costs of public administration and do not promote effective control of public finance discipline. High Seym! A mandatory part of the government's report on the implementation of the State budget is the statement of revenue and expenditure of the public finance sector. Supreme Audit Chamber 3rd year in a row indicates that the revenues of the public finance sector shown in the government's report on the implementation of the State budget have been overstated. The reason was not to eliminate from the revenue of the public finance sector the funds transferred from the State budget to the Social Insurance Fund as compensation for contributions lost to open pension funds. They should, in our opinion, be - on the basis of an article. Paragraph 7 2 Public Finance Act - excluded from the revenue account of the sector, then the total revenue in 2015 would be PLN 684 700 million. This would correspond to a value of 38,3% GDP. The expenditure of the public finance sector amounted to PLN 731 800 million, equivalent to nearly 41% GDP. The combination of these two amounts results in a deficit of PLN 47 200 million, i.e. 2.6% GDP. Such a scale of public finances imbalances - 2.6% GDP - in our assessment, reflects the general government deficit-to-GDP ratio, calculated according to the EU methodology. This relationship was lower than that achieved in 2014 by 0.6 percentage points, it is worth noting. Poland has fulfilled the criterion obliging the Member States of the European Union to maintain the general government deficit below 3% GDP. The improvement in the financial situation of the State gave rise to the completion in June 2015 of the excessive deficit procedure for Poland, which has been ongoing since 2009. Further decline in tax revenues in relation to GDP should be considered a worrying phenomenon. Between 2006 and 2008, these revenues accounted for an average of 21.3% GDP, in the next 3 years still exceeded 19% , in 2014 amounted to 18.6% , and in 2015 - 18.3%. We use EU methodology, there are a lot of these methodologies, we thought this would be the most reliable. Further erosion of tax revenues may, in our view, threaten the proper functioning of the State in the long term, especially since the gradual decline in tax revenues in relation to GDP was not due to the implementation of a specific fiscal policy of the State, namely tax reduction. High Seym! The public debt, calculated according to the national methodology, amounted to the end of 2015. PLN 877 300 million. It increased by 50 billion compared to the end of the previous year. The government debt-to-GDP ratio increased from 48% to 49% This was above all the result of the increase of the Treasury's debt by the sum I was talking about, i.e. about PLN 50 billion. However, public debt at the end of 2015 reached a slightly lower value than at the end of 2013. This means that within 2 years, of course formally, the debt has been reduced, but we must remember that this result has been affected by the withdrawal of bonds taken over by the Social Security Office from open pension funds. General government debt, determined according to the EU methodology, and thus additionally taking into account inter alia. The debt of the National Road Fund and certain public enterprises amounted to the end of 2015. PLN 917 800 million. It was higher than at the end of the previous year by PLN 49 800 million. Although debt-to-GDP ratio increased from 50.5% to 51.3%, Poland remained in the 10th place among the countries of the European Union with the lowest level of debt for GDP. The average value of this relationship in the European Union at the end of 2015 was 72.5% and decreased by 1 percentage point compared to 2014. The majority of Western European countries have a higher debt-to-GDP ratio than in Poland, including Germany, the United Kingdom and France. The Supreme Audit Chamber maintains the position presented in previous years that maintaining differences in the methodology of counting public debt between our Polish, national and EU methodologies does not, in our view, have a rational justification. High Seym! The scale and seriousness of the irregularities identified by NIK as a result of the State budget implementation checks, as I said, were not significant enough to reduce the assessment of the implementation of the state budget as a whole. The irregularities found most often consisted of: failure to investigate or unsuccessfully recover budgetary claims, including tax duties, errors in grant awards and insufficient supervision of their use, failure to comply with the provisions of the Public Procurement Law, misconstruing of property expenditure, exceeding the authorisation to make expenditure, keeping accounts in a manner that is not in line with the provisions of the Accounting Act, errors in accounting records in budgetary statements, errors in carrying out construction investments, insufficient supervision, including the implementation of multiannual programmes. I am, of course, talking about these errors in the context of the number of budget units that we have audited, but I would stress once again that the scale of these irregularities is absolutely non-excessive for the overall assessment that I presented at the beginning. In addition, in the course of the changes in the organisation of the public finance sector in November 2015, in the form of the creation of new branches of government administration and the amendment of the budgetary components, the ministers affected by the amendments concluded agreements on the disposal of budgetary parts without a legal basis. As a result, despite the establishment of new budget components, the tasks assigned to them were carried out by other contributors. Such agreements arose before the end of the financial year. The results of the audit show that it is necessary to continue the efforts aimed at: developing and successfully implementing the tax sealing strategy, carrying out a thorough analysis of the functioning of the Finance Minister's bodies and developing solutions to ensure effective enforcement of the taxes due and to improve the effectiveness of these bodies, ensuring the financial stability of the social security sector, strengthening the supervision of part-holders of the implementation of financial plans, in particular in the area of debt recovery, the use of grants and the implementation of investment intentions, and improving the forecasting of budgetary revenues. The NIK also notes the need to finalise the evaluation report and the conclusions of the report on the impact of the performance of the public finance commitment and to carry out a consistent review of public expenditure in 2015 and to monitor the implementation of the recommendations resulting from them. Where the level of expenditure is determined by a stabilising expenditure rule, the expenditure reviews should be an important instrument for shaping the most desirable structure of public expenditure. High Seym! In fulfilling its constitutional obligation, the Supreme Audit Chamber also carried out an audit of the activities of the National Bank of Poland in implementing monetary policy objectives in 2015. In 2015, the Council 3rd year in a row inflation developed below the monetary policy objective set out in monetary policy. It was to keep inflation at 2.5% with an acceptable deviation interval of ±1 percentage point. However, from January to December, there was a deflation. The increase in prices of consumer goods and services ranged from -16%. to -0.5%. Deflation has been determined by the decline in raw materials and food prices, i.e. factors outside the sphere of monetary policy impact. In this context, the Monetary Policy Council considered that, since there was no significant disturbance in the economy, there was no stronger response than a one-off reduction of 0.5 percentage points. There was no disturbance in the economy, as economic participants considered deflation to be a temporary phenomenon. It therefore did not have a significant impact on their decisions. However, the persistence of price decreases can change this attitude and increase the risk of deflation turning into a phenomenon with negative consequences for the economy. In such a situation, the cumulative adverse effects of this phenomenon on tax revenues would increase. As a result of the audit, the Supreme Audit Chamber did not find irregularities in the NBP's application of monetary policy instruments. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Following an analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy in 2015, the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber adopted a resolution at its meeting on 8 June this year, in which it expressed a favourable opinion on discharge for the Council of Ministers for 2015. The College of NIK pointed to the deteriorating financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund and the need to take effective action to seal the tax system. High Seym! The Supreme Audit Chamber annually provides the Sejm, but also all Poles with accurate information about the actual situation of the state budget, the implementation of the assumed budgetary revenue, expenditure incurred or the level of public debt. Only an authority independent of the executive authority, such as NIK, guarantees a full diagnosis of the state of public finances not only today but also in the future. The House is looking not only at expenditure but also at the implementation of tax revenue, presenting also proposals on how to make taxes in Poland pay everyone who should. Thanking you for your attention, I would stress that both myself and my colleagues are, of course, at your disposal if there were any specific questions about the report I just presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to ask Mr Rafał Wójcikowski to report to the committee on the information presented by the President of the Council of Ministers on the guarantees and guarantees given in 2015 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Dear guests! Allow me to present a report to the Committee on Public Finances on the information presented to the Council of Ministers on Guarantees and guarantees granted by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in 2015 and the consequences of guarantees and guarantees granted. I will start by saying that financial risks are an important element in the security of public finances, state finances. Guarantees and guarantees have an impact on the way this financial risk develops, therefore Article. 216 of the Constitution tells us that loans and guarantees must not exceed, in short, 60% GDP. Today's GDP is 1789 billion, so this limit should not exceed about PLN 1060 billion, according to the Constitution. Therefore, the control of guarantees and guarantees is important, as I said, for the security of the state's finances. Each year, the Council of Ministers shall provide the Sejm with information, as the Law on Guarantees and Guarantees states in the article. 46 and the Public Finance Act in Article. 36 and Article 36 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council As far as the Treasury is concerned, in 2015, a guarantee of 8502 million with the pennies I will not mention was granted and, above all, it was guarantees for the repayment of foreign loans. This sum of these 8,5 billion is, in terms of foreign loans, guarantees of repayment of foreign loans, almost PLN 7,6 billion, i.e. the rest are bonds that fit a total of PLN 910 million. The main borrowers on which loans were granted a guarantee are PKP PLK, it is PLN 3.9 billion, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego - PLN 3.4 billion and PKP Intercity - 237 million, still bonds PKP PLK - PLN 910 million. In the 2015 budget law, this limit of guarantees and guarantees amounted to PLN 200 billion and was 100 billion less than the limit which was in the 2014 budget law. This sum of 8.5 billion, which I have been talking about, has fulfilled this limit of 200 billion in terms of percentages of 4,25%. It's not a big filling, is it? On the other hand, it should be remembered that there was an important guarantee given by the State Treasury to the National Bank of Poland related to the commitments of the Cooperative Bank of Craft and Agriculture in Wołomin - an additional 250 million. Therefore, linking this to the guarantee for this bank in Volomin, it can be said that the sum of guarantees and guarantees is 8750 million, i.e. not 4,25% In total, only 4.38%, so compared to 2014 is lower because in 2014 these guarantees were granted for a total of 16.8 billion and the amount was 300 billion, so it was 5.6% And now we have a 4.3% drop. Such high guarantee limits are linked to the ongoing global risk of the financial, economic crisis, with the possible possibility, if such a relapse would occur, of supporting financial sector actors in terms of stabilising their finances. Therefore, this limit, although decreasing from 300 to 200, is disproportionately high. For the time being, the financial situation is quite stable, so it is used to a small extent, but the Budgetary Act secures this limit of as much as 200 billion, at least in 2015, and in 2014 up to 300 billion, so that there are appropriate tools and measures to protect the financial security and stability of institutions that may possibly benefit from these guarantees and guarantees. In 2015, commission fees were paid for guarantees and guarantees, a total of PLN 24.5 million, so the scale is small. As regards the non-reliability of the State Treasury as at 31 December 2015, the potential non-requireable liabilities, guarantees and national guarantees are 31.4 billion, foreign guarantees - 81.8. billions. What are the main guarantees and national guarantees related to non-required potential safeguards? This is above all the support of the National Road Fund by BGK - about 25,7 billion, as well as PKP PLK - about 4 billion. In total, the national guarantees and foreign guarantees gave us a total of PLN 113.2 billion of outstanding liabilities and guarantees of the State Treasury, and in 2014 it was PLN 110.8 billion. So there's been nominal growth, but if we go back to GDP, which has gone up by over 3.5%. in terms of the percentage share of GDP, the non-necessary potential liabilities fell because in 2014 it was 6.4% GDP, now it's 6.3% GDP. So this is, you could say, some stable, maintained safe level, there's no danger here. We can say that, as far as these guarantees are concerned, there is no cause for concern about any excessive increase in guarantees and guarantees that would pose a risk to the state's finances in the future. As regards foreign guarantees, the sums for individual borrowers are as follows: most PKP PLK - 9,5 billion PLN, BGK KFD, as I said - 49 billion, Gdańsk Transport Company - 8,7 billion, Highway Wielkopolska related to KFD - 6,8 billion, Highway Wielkopolska without ties with KFD - 3,3 billion, PKP Intercity - about 2 billion. I have exchanged those values, which exceed a billion zlotys, I have allowed myself not to exchange the value of guarantees and guarantees that do not exceed 1 billion zloty. As regards the State Treasury's expenses and charges for the guarantees and guarantees granted, these are really symbolic sums. I don't know if it's worth talking about, but it's PLN 140.80 and in 2014 it's $5,000. zł, so even it would be a methodological sin to calculate, if the percentage of expenditure fell in percentage terms. As regards the state of the claim, at the moment it amounts to about PLN 305.5 million, which amounted to PLN 306.8 million, so it actually amounts to 0.3%. the unpaid potential liabilities of the State Treasury for guarantees and guarantees, so the sum of the charges is there, you can say, counted in the beams as regards the non-requireable potential liabilities, so it does not in practice have any meaning that could shape an opinion on the state's financial situation and security related to the guarantees and guarantees. With regard to the recovery operations of the Treasury, they have deteriorated. However, they were not large, but they deteriorated in 2015 by half, as in 2014 recovery operations brought PLN 11.5 million and in 2015 only PLN 5.5 million. But, as I said, in relation to what I mentioned earlier, these symbolic millions are of little importance. We will now move on to guarantees and guarantees given by certain legal persons. It should be noted at the outset that, until 2014 as regards the reporting of guarantees and guarantees granted by certain legal persons, most companies of the Treasury, where there was more than 50% shares where there was 60% of the equity or 20%... Anyway, we've had this report together from 37 institutions. Now these institutions have been excluded from reporting, and it's really just agencies and foundations that are in direct control, they're being reported and we just have four annual reports and eight half-yearly reports, and last year, as I'm saying, it was 37 reports. I will try to comment on this phenomenon as a Member representing the Kukiz club, but as rapporteur I will only mention that, among other things, the guarantees and guarantees given by PGE, PGNiG, ENERGY and ENEA were not included in the 2015 report and were included in the 2014 report. Therefore, the analysis of guarantees and guarantees given by certain legal persons does not make much methodological sense since the data are completely incomparable. The scale of these guarantees is 72 entities and 1 million PLN, i.e. 0.01% All those guarantees. As far as potential liabilities are concerned, this is 72 million, and as far as receivables are concerned, 3.8 million. Million. Now the third element of the report, information, i.e. guarantees and guarantees related to the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego grants these guarantees and guarantees mainly because of the Guarantees and Guarantees Act and due to government programs. The two most important programmes are a programme to promote entrepreneurship and promote privatisation, so-called. the privatisation support programme. As regards 2015, the entrepreneurship support programme is guarantees and guarantees granted to 54 000. entities, above all small and medium-sized enterprises, that is almost PLN 9 billion. The Ministry of Finance representing the Council of Ministers states in this information that this is a very important element supporting Polish entrepreneurship, and stresses in the report that the programme supporting entrepreneurship by means of guarantees and guarantees BGK passed the exam and strongly contributed to the development of entrepreneurship, that this 9 billion is according to the Minister of Finance the success of BGK, and so I am giving this information. On the other hand, as far as the privatisation support programme is concerned, above all about employee privatisation, there was no effect - zero entities, no action. Finally, I would like to mention that BGK has a guarantee and guarantee reserve account and that there was an impact on this account of 84 million in 2015. And this is probably all about my report on the report on guarantees and guarantees given in 2015 by the State Treasury and some legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. I would like to point out that this information was presented at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance on 22 June and was adopted. The Commission also requested that the High House accept this information. There was no discussion as to the consideration of this information. The Commission considered that everything was clear, understandable. There were no clear comments or reservations about the report. The report presented to be precise, as a representative of the Council of Ministers, the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Mr Piotr Nowak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u9	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr Adam Glapiński, to present a report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2015.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u10	Good morning. [[Good morning.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As President of the National Bank of Poland and Chairman of the Monetary Policy Council, I have the honour to submit an annual report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, in this case from 2015. By virtue of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland has the right to determine and implement monetary policy. As the central bank of the Republic of Poland, NBP is responsible for the value of Polish money. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 3 of the Act on the National Bank of Poland clarifies the powers set out in the Constitution, stating: "The basic purpose of NBP's activities is to maintain a stable level of prices while supporting the economic policy of the Government, unless this limits the basic objective of NBP. The National Bank of Poland strives to maintain price stability by implementing the inflation target strategy, which is based on anchoring long-term inflation expectations at the level of the announced inflation target. Since 2004 NBP pursues its medium-term inflation target of 2,5% with a symmetrical deviation interval of plus minus 1 percentage point. During this period, the average dynamics of consumer prices in Poland amounted to 2.1%. At the same time, the central bank shall take into account the lessons learned from the global financial crisis. For this reason, the NBP's monetary policy is being pursued to promote sustainable growth and the stability of the financial sector. In this way, NBP supports the government's economic policy and seeks to maintain price stability over the long term. However, this monetary policy requires a flexible approach to the inflation target, which mainly involves accepting the periodic deviation of price dynamics from the target. This flexibility is particularly needed when there are unexpected shocks in the global economy, strongly affecting national price processes. In 2015, the main shock in the global economy was the sharp decline in raw material prices on global markets. Oil prices fell by 46% in 2015 compared to the previous year and reached the lowest level since 2004 at the end of 2015. The strong price decrease concerned most of the most important raw materials, including agricultural raw materials. As a result, global consumer price dynamics have fallen to the lowest level in half a century. The exception was 2009 when its decline was linked to the global financial crisis. As a result, inflation in most countries was significantly lower than their inflation targets in 2015. Recordlessly low price dynamics in the world have been conducive not only to a strong fall in raw material prices but also to a moderate increase in demand in the global economy. Under such conditions, the main central banks continued their expansionary monetary policy, although there was a discrepancy in the activities of the European Central Bank and the US Federal Reserve. In 2015, for the first time in many years, the Fed has increased its interest rates, while the ECB has significantly increased its monetary expansion. In the European Union, there has been a gradual, although slow improvement in economic activity. At the same time, the economic situation in emerging economies, including the most important of these economies, i.e. China, has clearly deteriorated. Eastern trading partners of Poland, i.e. in Russia and Ukraine, a permanent recession. The economic downturn in developing countries, while the start of interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve, has led to a deterioration in the global financial markets. As a result, capital was drained from emerging economies and the prices of financial assets in these countries decreased significantly. In these circumstances, many emerging economies' currencies have also been clearly weakened, including. The golden course. In Poland, as in many European countries, there has been a decrease in the overall level of consumer prices, which was minus 0.9% in 2015. Deflation was mainly due to the strong impact of the global decline in raw materials prices on domestic energy and food prices and low inflation in the Polish economy. At the same time, the economic situation in Poland was good and the decline in raw materials prices had a positive impact on the economic situation of most economic operators. Deflation didn't work. the negative impact on economic activity. Inflationary expectations were well anchored and households treated deflation as a transitional phenomenon. Therefore, no weakening of retail dynamics and a sharp increase in the propensity to save has been observed. The decrease in raw material prices also contributed to improving the profitability of companies despite the systematic increase in nominal wages. This was already mentioned by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, who appeared before me. When conducting monetary policy last year, the Monetary Policy Council took into account the fact that the persistence of deflation was the result of external factors, as indicated in the NIK report, independent of national monetary policy and had no negative macroeconomic impact. In particular, the Council considered that deflation was accompanied by an acceleration of GDP growth of 3.6% in 2015. There has also been an increase in consumer demand, which has contributed to a clear improvement in the labour market situation and good domestic moods. There has been a strong increase in employment and the unemployment rate has fallen to record low levels. This was accompanied by a stable increase in wages, the real value of which was further increased as a result of the negative dynamics of consumer prices. As a result, the assessment of the financial situation of households has improved. At the same time, the good financial and liquidity situation of the companies was maintained. In particular, the percentage of viable companies was high. Export has also increased strongly in 2015 and its dynamics have been highest for 4 years. In view of such circumstances, the National Bank of Poland softened monetary policy in 2015 and 5 March 2015 lowered interest rates to the lowest level in history. The NBP reference rate was reduced by 0,5 percentage points to 1,5. The reduction in interest rates was intended to reduce the risk of price dynamics being sustained below the inflation target. When deciding on the scale of the reduction of interest rates in 2015, the Monetary Policy Council took into account the external nature of the sources of deflation and the absence of negative effects on the economy, as well as the prosperity of the country, including stable GDP growth and a clear improvement in the labour market. In its decisions, the Council also took into account the systematic growth of national lending, the dynamics of which have been among the highest in the European Union in recent years. In this way, monetary policy reduced the risks to the stability of the financial system, which could result in excessive reduction of interest rates in good times. In monetary policy, the Monetary Policy Council has therefore taken appropriate action to increase price dynamics over the medium term. The scale of monetary policy mitigation was also adapted to the continuing economic prosperity, thus reducing the risk of macroeconomic imbalances in the Polish economy. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The monetary policy of the National Bank of Poland in 2015 was conducted under conditions of continued overliquidity of the banking sector, although its size during the year showed a downward trend. The average level of overliquidity of the banking sector in 2015 amounted to nearly 90 billion PLN and was by more than 17% lower than a year ago. The NBP's monetary policy was implemented through a set of instruments adopted by the Monetary Policy Council. Unlike many foreign central banks, the situation in Poland did not require NBP to use unconventional monetary policy instruments and allowed for a conservative approach to monetary policy. The set of instruments was therefore the same as in the previous year. The main monetary policy instrument in 2015 was the NBP interest rates. The NBP reference rate was the most important factor in the implementation of monetary policy. The changes in its amount were the direction of the NBP's monetary policy. This rate, determining the profitability of open market operations, affected the interest rates of short-term money market instruments. The NBP's deposit and pawns rate set a range of interest rate fluctuations in in-bank transactions. The main open market operations were the main tools used to manage the liquidity of the banking sector. They consisted of regular weekly issuance of cash vouchers by NBP with a maturity of 7 days. In determining the value of the issue, NBP sought to maintain balanced liquidity conditions in the banking sector. In the event of a significant liquidity imbalance, the NBP could also use fine-tuning open market operations. In 2015, such operations were used to a small extent. They were only in the form of issuances of NBP cash vouchers with a maturity of less than 7 days. In 2015, the operational objective of monetary policy was to develop the Polonia rate at a level similar to the NBP reference rate. The average absolute deviation from the NBP reference rate in 2015 was 12 basis points and was similar to that achieved in the previous year. Compared to the crisis in the financial markets, the deviation of the Polonia rate from the NBP reference rate decreased approximately seven times. This demonstrates the high effectiveness of NBP in achieving the operational objective of monetary policy in 2015. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The statutory task of the National Bank of Poland is to shape the conditions necessary for the development of the banking sector and carry out activities for the stability of the national financial system. Since 1 November 2015, an action to eliminate or reduce systemic risk has been added to these tasks. Maintaining the stability of the financial system and countering the rise of risks in it are essential conditions for achieving the constitutional goal of NBP, which is to ensure the value of Polish money. Before the recent crisis in the world economy, central banks focused mainly on maintaining price stability. However, the experience of the crisis has shown that they cannot limit their mandate only to conduct monetary policy and maintain inflation at a low level. At present, central banks are also expected to promote the stability of the financial system and ensure the balance of the economy as a whole. The financial system plays a key role in the transmission of monetary policy impulses to the real sphere, and its destabilisation may make it difficult or even impossible to operate effectively. As early as 2011 the NBP initiated actions to create macro-prudential supervision in Poland, drawing up, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, the foundation of a draft law. He called for, among other things. the establishment of a body responsible for the conduct of macro-prudential policies. Finally, on 1 November 2015, the Act on macro-prudential supervision of the financial system and crisis management in the financial system entered into force. The Act has designated the Financial Stability Committee as the competent authority for this supervision. He is now responsible for both the development of macro-prudential policies and the coordination of crisis management activities. The main objective of the Committee in the framework of macro-prudential supervision is to strengthen the resilience of the financial system in the event of systemic risk materialisation and thereby promote long-term sustainable economic growth. The work on macro-prudential supervision is chaired by the President of the National Bank of Poland. The National Bank of Poland provides organizational and substantive support to the committee through the development of analyses of the sources of systemic risk and the preparation of proposals to limit it. In the area of crisis management, the Committee is still chaired by the Minister of Finance, and the Ministry of Finance provides services in this area. The first meeting of the Financial Stability Committee on macro-prudential issues was held on 23 December 2015. Among other things, it was discussed. issues relating to different sources of risk to the financial system relating to the functioning of financial institutions at low interest rates, the costs of restructuring and bankruptcy of credit institutions and the bank tax. The Committee informed the institutions of the European Union, i.e. The European Council on The systemic risk, the European Banking Authority and the European Commission, of decisions taken on macro-prudential policy. Effective measures for financial stability require an understanding of the current situation of the financial system and the identification and assessment of the risks at stake. The National Bank of Poland carries out this task by conducting its own research and analysis of the financial sector, as well as cooperating with other state bodies in the creation of legal regulations and taking actions that promote the stability of this sector. The NBP's analysis confirms that last year the Polish financial system was stable, and the most important segment of it, the banking sector, was in good condition, although its net financial result decreased by as much as 18.9%. - from PLN 15.9 billion at the end of 2014 to PLN 12.9 billion at the end of 2015. In the sector as a whole, the rate of lending continued to be close to the nominal rate of GDP growth and its capital facilities were adequate to the level of business. The capital ratio at the end of 2015 was 16% to the 12% required by supervision. However, the profitability of the banking sector has decreased, which has been influenced by both low interest rates and certain developments in the banking sector. The banks incurred the costs of providing the Creditor Support Fund for which they paid PLN 600 million. They also incurred additional fees for the Bank Guarantee Fund, PLN 2.04 billion, in connection with the announcement of the bankruptcy of SK Bank and the need to pay guaranteed deposits to its customers. My previous speakers talked more about this. They also had to pay higher regular contributions to the BFG - Bank Guarantee Fund than in previous years. The total amount of all these burdens together reduced the net profit of the sector by around 14%. At this point, it is worth paying more attention to the above mentioned bankruptcy of SK Bank. On 20 August 2015, at the request of the Management Board, the NBP granted him a refinancing loan of PLN 500 million, of which PLN 450 million was used. The guarantee granted to the loan was the State Treasury guarantee covering half of the amount paid and, in the remainder, the transfer of SK Bank's claims. The NBP's decisions on granting liquidity support were taken on the basis of Article. 42 Act on the National Bank of Poland. It allows the central bank to grant banks a refinancing loan. The central bank acted as the lender of the last instance, as the Management Board of SK Bank no longer had any market opportunities to obtain funding. The support provided by NBP enabled SK Bank to carry out its current accounts and was intended to allow the preparation of a resolution programme or to seek the buyer of the bank to take over and restructure it. In its decision to grant a refinancing loan, the NBP was guided by the opinion of the Financial Supervision Authority on the solvency of SK Bank and took into account that it established a committee board to prepare a resolution programme. The results of the audit of the Bank's financial statements published on 12 November 2015 by the statutory auditor indicated the bank's highly negative own funds due to the need to create special provisions and to verify the valuation of collateral. As a result of the correction made, the assets of SK Bank were not sufficient to meet its liabilities. As a result, on 21 November 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] KNF suspended SK Bank's activities and applied to the court for bankruptcy and finally announced the bankruptcy of SK Bank on 30 December 2015. SK Bank's bankruptcy costs were borne by all banks and its uninsured creditors. The payment of deposits guaranteed by the BFG amounted to over PLN 2 billion. These funds have been paid from the Guarantee Fund. The funds of this fund are collected by all banks in the form of Treasury securities or NBP cash vouchers. They should therefore have been cashed in and paid in the corresponding amounts to the BFG. This was a direct cost for banks and had a negative impact on their financial performance for the fourth quarter of 2015. Last year's crisis of SK Bank, where the most expensive solution, i.e. bankruptcy, and other events of minor importance, were necessary justify the need to introduce into the Polish legal order a body responsible for the compulsory restructuring and orderly liquidation of banks and SKOKs, which has an appropriate instrumentarium. The National Bank of Poland has repeatedly pointed out the need to implement the Resolution Directive into the Polish legal order. We are therefore very pleased to note that in June this year. The Sejm passed a bill in this regard, and the president signed it. As a result, the new regulations will be in force in the autumn. The solutions provided for in the Act will provide financial security networks with a wider and cheaper set of instruments to reduce the public costs of solving the problems of financial institutions. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! An important element of the activities of the National Bank of Poland is the management of foreign exchange reserves. Under the conditions of the liquid exchange rate and the conduct of monetary policy in line with the strategy of the direct inflation target, foreign exchange reserves aim primarily at strengthening the financial credibility of the country. Their size is analysed by foreign investors, international institutions and credit rating agencies. In this way, the value of reserves held affects the cost of financing on global markets and the volatility of the gold exchange rate, as well as reduces the risk of rapid outflow of capital. Incidentally foreign exchange reserves may be used under conditions of significant disruption to the functioning of the financial system, in particular to counteract excessive fluctuations in the exchange rate. The National Bank of Poland aims to ensure a stable increase in foreign exchange reserves, allowing to maintain an appropriate level of commonly used reserve adequacy indicators, reflecting in particular the potential need for short-term financing in times of crisis. The main source of reserves is the purchase of foreign currency related to the inflow of funds from EU funds to Poland. Official reserve assets increased by EUR 4.2 billion in 2015. This increase was mainly due to changes in the foreign exchange relationship of reserve currencies. It also contributed to the income from the investment of reserves and the positive balance of external flows. When managing foreign exchange reserves, the National Bank of Poland strives to ensure a high level of security of the funds invested and their proper liquidity. When these criteria are met, the NBP shall take action to increase the profitability of the reserves. However, it depends on market conditions, exchange rate changes, prices of investment instruments and the level of profitability. In 2015, the Council The NBP reached a rate of return calculated in PLN of 5,5%. The appreciation of the US dollar and the pound of sterling against the gold contributed the most to this. The income of the reserves expressed in the currency of the instruments was only 0.9% and was limited by the low yield of government bonds, mainly linked to the expansionary monetary policy of the main central banks, and by halting the upward trend in long-term debt securities prices. The US dollar and the euro dominate our monetary reserve structure. NBP also invests in British, Norwegian, Australian and New Zealand securities that offer higher profitability. The official reserve assets of the NBP are also included in the monetary gold stock of approximately 103 tons. However, the attractiveness of the gold reserves is limited due to the high volatility of its price, as well as small investment opportunities. In 2015, the income of NBP for investments in gold amounted to PLN 6.9 million, or PLN 28.7 million. High Izbo! The profit achieved by NBP in 2015 was one of the largest in the last 10 years and amounted to PLN 8.3 billion. This was mainly due to favourable changes in exchange rates. The NBP's financial surplus amounted to PLN 10.8 billion. At the same time, the costs of creating a reserve to cover the risk of changes in the exchange rate to foreign currencies, amounting to PLN 2.5 billion, were incurred. The aim of this reserve is to protect the NBP from the negative effects of possible appreciation of gold in the future. In accordance with current regulations, 95% NBP's profits feed the state budget and 5% is written off to the bank's reserve fund. Therefore, on 12 July 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 concerning the The NBP transferred PLN 7.9 billion to the state budget. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the bank's statutory activities is the issue activity. Pursuant to the Act on NBP, the central bank has the exclusive right to issue cash marks to the Republic of Poland. By putting banknotes and coins into circulation, NBP ensures liquidity of cash settlement and adequate quality of cash in circulation. At the end of 2015, the value of cash in circulation amounted to PLN 163.2 billion, and compared to the previous year increased by PLN 20.3 billion, i.e. by 14.2%. The high increase in cash in circulation observed for the past 2 years is mainly due to economic growth and the consequent increased demand for cash from businesses and households. For several years now, the central bank has been working systematically to optimise money circulation in Poland. These include, in particular, reducing the cost of issuing banknotes and coins, representing around 1/3 of the operating costs of the NBP. After successful modernization and introduction of 10 PLN, 20 PLN, 50 PLN and 100 PLN banknotes into circulation in 2014, the National Bank of Poland prepared for the introduction of modernized 200 gold banknotes last year. This was the case in February 2016. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2015, the Council The NBP continued its cooperation with international financial and economic institutions. The actions taken by the bank contributed to strengthening Poland's position in international financial institutions. They have also confirmed our role as an important and responsible international partner in the face of challenges such as maintaining global financial stability. The main element of the NBP's international activities is the implementation of the tasks arising from its membership of the European System of Central Banks. The NBP representatives participated in the work of the various ESCB bodies to the extent resulting from the status of a central bank of a Member State of the Union outside the euro area. In addition, the President of the NBP shall participate in quarterly meetings of the General Council of the ESCB. The subject matter of her deliberations was, among others, the macroeconomic situation of the Member States of the European Union and the monetary policy of countries outside the euro area. For several years now, the National Bank of Poland has participated in two programmes aimed at temporarily increasing the resources of the International Monetary Fund. First, under the New Loan Agreements, the NBP remained ready to pay the IMF an interest-bearing loan of around EUR 3.22 billion. As at the end of 2015, the Fund used around 313 million euro. 2 February 2016 The NBP paid for the increase in the shares of Polish members in the IMF and the loan limit was reduced to EUR 1.63 billion. Secondly, the bilateral loan agreement obliges the NBP to grant the loan to the Fund up to EUR 6.27 billion. The Fund has never made use of these funds so far. The appropriations made available to the IMF under the New Loan Agreements and under the bilateral loan agreement shall have the status of foreign reserve assets. The involvement of the NBP in the temporary increase in IMF financial resources has enabled the fund to be strengthened during an increased risk period. The funds made available will enable him to respond quickly and effectively in the event of further financial crises. As a result of the joint work of the Ministry of Finance and the NBP in January 2015, the IMF Executive Board granted Poland access to a flexible credit line for the next 2 years. According to the Polish authorities' request, the amount of funds available to the government under this credit line was reduced to around $22.1 billion. In January 2016, after the review carried out by the MMA of Poland's compliance with the criteria for access to the line, the value of the available funds at the request of the Polish authorities was again reduced and currently amounts to around 17,9 billion U.S. dollars. The National Bank of Poland supports the line as a financial agent of the government. Access to a flexible credit line is an additional security for our country in the event of a sudden deterioration of the external situation. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The NBP's statutory tasks include the organisation and handling of cash settlements. In this area, NBP has taken numerous steps to modernise and develop the Polish payment system. In 2015, the Council The National Bank of Poland, as part of the Coalition for Cashless Trading and Micropayments, participated in the work on updating the Uncash Development Programme in Poland for the period 2014-2020. This programme has become one of the starting points of the initiative to increase non-cash turnover, which is part of the government's program from paper to digital Poland. Despite the successive increase in non-cash payments made by individuals in Poland, their share in all transactions in this segment is only 20%, while in the European Union the rate is 40%. The average annual number of transactions made by one resident in Poland, which is 49 is almost 2-fold lower than in the European Union. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The NBP's activities in the field of economic education are a prominent element in supporting the implementation of the tasks of the NBP. The NBP's educational activities focus on explaining the functioning of the market economy, the role of the central bank, bringing together economic concepts and phenomena and countering the so-called "market economy." financial exclusion. In 2015, these actions covered several million citizens of our country. In April 2016, as part of the educational activity carried out by the bank, the Money Centre was opened, the founder of which was the tragically deceased President of the National Bank of Poland. Sławomir Skrzypek. It is an educational and exhibition facility in which more than 4 thousand were gathered. unique exhibits and the use of state-of-the-art multimedia devices. A fully interactive Money Centre exposition is available free of charge for all interested persons. High Izbo! Last year was a good time in the Polish economy. It developed at relatively fast and at the same time at a sustainable rate. The negative price dynamics were mainly due to the strong decline in raw material prices on the world market, above all to energy and food prices. The persistence of deflation has not adversely affected the economic situation of businesses and households or their long-term inflation expectations. In such a situation, NBP's monetary policy has been relaxed, although the scale of this mitigation has been adapted to the continuing economic prosperity. The main factor of economic growth in Poland was the high dynamics of domestic demand. Moreover, economic growth was supported by the recovery in the euro area, which is Poland's most important trading partner. These circumstances have allowed NBP interest rates to be reduced to the lowest levels in history. As President of the NBP, I am aware of the challenges facing the central bank in the coming years. One of the most important ones is to maintain a stable financial system, especially in view of the possible shocks and problems of some financial institutions. It is therefore particularly important to restore the central bank's ability to supervise the banking system. I've talked about this in public many times. Action to maintain the stability of the financial system is more effective when the central bank not only plays a key role in macro-prudential policy but also has micro-prudential supervision instruments at its disposal. This institutional arrangement facilitates the coordination of both types of supervision and enables a more efficient exercise of the central bank's stability functions. International experience shows that the location of micro-prudential supervision at the central bank enhances the effectiveness of the supervision itself and the institutions of the financial security network, and is particularly necessary in the event of tension or crisis. For this reason, this solution is implemented in most European Union countries as well as in the Banking Union. It should be borne in mind that maintaining monetary and financial stability is crucial to ensuring the balance of the economy as a whole. I am convinced that stabilisation in these areas will enable us to achieve sustainable development and economic growth and, consequently, sustainable improvement in terms of the wealth of Poles. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to present her position to the committee. [[Voice from the room: Who?]] I would like to ask you, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the committee on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice... [[Rapporteur for the committee, Madam President.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u13	Madam, you are the rapporteur at this point and we ask you to present...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u14	Yes, as the rapporteur of the committee, I will try to present the course of discussions at the meeting of the finance committee on the implementation of monetary policy in 2015 and the activities of the National Bank of Poland, together with the analysis of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which took place on 22 June. The overarching objective of monetary policy is to maintain stable prices and to maintain the conditions for economic growth, to ensure macroeconomic balance, internal balance, and to stabilise the financial system of the State. These objectives, which have been implemented for years, were also treated in the case of the action of the National Bank of Poland, which was responsible for monetary policy, in 2015. The nature of monetary policy, i.e. whether it is an expansion policy, a low interest rate policy or a restrictive policy - we can approximately describe it as a high interest rate policy - is affected by the situation in the economy, the external situation and the internal macroeconomic situation. The price decrease of world energy raw materials, as well as the significant price decrease of agricultural raw materials, has been a source of price depression in Poland as well. Despite the improvement in the euro area, economic activity was still low. The situation in emerging economies has deteriorated. The pace of economic growth in China was dropping, and some countries were actually hit by recession. In addition, we have the threat of a new wave of financial crisis in the countries of the European Union and the unpredictable effects of Brexit. These factors affected the nature of monetary policy implemented by the National Bank of Poland. The lack of wage growth in Poland and despite the improvement of the high unemployment rate, close to two figures, did not create sufficient demand and thus sufficient price pressure to offset the price depression caused by the above mentioned reasons. As highlighted here, inflation was -0.9% in 2015 So we've been dealing with the phenomenon of deflation. Deflation reduced debt handling costs - this is a positive impact - but it also reduced revenue to the state budget by about PLN 2 billion. The Monetary Policy Council considered that the Polish economy was approaching or operating close to the limit of generation capacity, so that, in fear of exceeding this limit of generation capacity, it maintained additional rates, did not apply negative rates. As mentioned, although there was a deviation from the inflation target of 2,5% , on average a year up to 3.4% , the largest in comparison to all countries, the Monetary Policy Council in March reduced the interest rate by 0.5 percentage points to 1.5%. This demonstrates the great caution of the Monetary Policy Council, which, with the highest deviation from the inflation target in February, to the level - 4.1 the percentage point, reduced the interest rate by 0,5 percentage points. In this respect, There could be doubts as to whether there was a discussion or whether such a cautious policy was really justified here. The existing huge reserves of resources, even if human capital in the form of unused and available labour in our market, as well as other resources, other reserves in this area, would seem to allow, with security and with the help of these monetary policy instruments, greater activation of the economy. This is, of course, a matter for discussion. The central bank, using these classical instruments, such as the change in reference rate, foreign exchange reserves and open market operations, influenced the supply of money in circulation and thus the volume of global demand, the macroeconomic equilibrium in Poland, thus strongly affected the economic activity of all operators - producers, investors and consumers, although they maintain a high degree of independence under market economy conditions. Thus, the Polish central bank, the National Bank of Poland plays a huge role in shaping dynamics, production, employment, exports, has a strong impact on the economic situation. At its meeting on 22 June, the Committee on Public Finance, considering the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2015, drew attention to several issues, including: to the fact that budget support, in accordance with the opinion of the Supreme Audit Chamber, was carried out properly and in a timely manner. The National Bank of Poland launched the electronic banking system and led over 14 thousand. bills for more than 3,000. entities in the public finance sector. The National Bank of Poland achieved, as mentioned, a positive financial result exceeding PLN 8 billion, although it was planned at 0% , which has benefited from the revenue of the State budget in connection with the transfer of this profit to the State budget. Achievement of such a high profit was the result of a positive result on exchange rate differences and a positive result on foreign reserve management. The National Bank of Poland achieved a profit from foreign exchange reserves management, which we also appreciate positively, because the state of foreign reserves, and especially their relation to debt, is an indication of security in the assessment of investors and credibility of Poland in the eyes of investors. The level of assets of the National Bank of Poland also increased last year by 5% and reached 86, almost 87 billion euro. In terms of gold, it increased by 5% and reached EUR 370 billion. It should also be noted that the rate of return on foreign reserves remained high, especially taking into account the impact of the exchange rate changes, i.e. the rate of return calculated in PLN remained at 5.5%. If the effect of exchange rate changes is not taken into account, this indicator was 0.9% , we are talking about the rate of return, i.e. both in one case and in the other case we have a clear deterioration compared to 2014 of the rate of return of both meters. This is the result of the international situation, the profitability of government papers and many other processes that took place both in the euro area and outside of it due to the recovery in the United States, where the US dollar's appreciation and the pound of sterling took place as a result of the change, which led to a slightly lower rate of return than in previous years. Returning to the activities of the National Bank of Poland, it should be emphasized that the National Bank of Poland worked intensively with the Ministry of Finance on the issue of public debt management, issued securities, organised tenders in the context of open market operations on buying-in, as well as the sale of treasury papers. The reserve for exchange rate risk amounts to over PLN 11 billion, including last year it was increased by PLN 2467 million. This protects the financial result against the appreciation of the gold. For several years the Polish banking system has been characterised by overliquidity. It is estimated at the level, as the President mentioned, about 90 billion PLN. Although it is decreasing, that the Polish banking system and the National Bank of Poland are getting better and better, this is the case. This is mainly due to the buying-in of currencies in connection with the sale, the servicing of debt, the conversion of the Member State contribution, as well as the Union funds. In the implementation of the second very important function of the National Bank of Poland, which is to ensure the stability of the financial system, the National Bank of Poland cooperated with the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Supervision Commission and the Bank Guarantee Fund. This cooperation was also initiated within the Financial Stability Committee, although such a meeting took place only once, it was created in August ub. Some findings, including information on the security of the banking and financial system in Poland, which is required to be communicated to various EU organisations, have been prepared and communicated by this committee. In 2015, the Council The NBP granted a refinancing loan to restore liquidity to one of the banks, which unfortunately left the National Bank of Poland with an unpaid 150 million-dollar loan - not paid by the bank due to its bankruptcy. Here, the attention of the members of the committee was drawn to a certain fact and this was the question raised as to whether the granting of this loan was preceded by a sufficiently thorough analysis. However, after the dispute with the syndicate ended, it turned out that the National Bank of Poland would be able to claim claims from collateral in the form of a guarantee of the Treasury, not from the mass of bankruptcy, which is beneficial for the national bank. It was also noted that this situation resulted in a lack of resolution procedure, which, previously implemented - the deadline for its implementation was 2014 - would avoid such negative consequences for the National Bank of Poland and the entire banking sector. In the bank's own economy, the Supreme Audit Chamber did not find any irregularities, although it was stressed that such an audit of NIK takes place every few years, every four to five years, and is fragmented, i.e. it concerns an analysis of some expenditure only, which may lead to a risk of finding irregularities in a comprehensive analysis. The withdrawal of the National Bank of Poland from the payment of the contribution of 2,600 thousand should be positively assessed. zł to the European Banking Authority, since this would be without a legal basis. This will increase the revenue to the state budget, and contrary to the concerns of some members of the committee, this will not translate into the elimination of the National Bank of Poland from participation in the work of the European Banking Authority, because this contribution will be paid by the Financial Supervision Commission or the appropriate legal basis will be prepared. The report, which was presented to us during the work of the Committee on Public Finance, raised no greater doubts, apart from the few minor comments mentioned above, the members of the Committee on Public Finance or the greater controversy. The Commission accepted this report, assessing it positively. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u15	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm established in a joint discussion on these items the division of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, within a range of 55 to 4 minutes, i.e. short-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Szewczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, you can say this: the budget is a financial plan, the budget is a state revenue and expenditure plan and as any plan can be better or worse implemented. I wanted to address not only the issue of the implementation itself, but also the issue of the creation of this budget, and especially the acquisition, whether it is better to say this, losing the revenue due to the state budget, the income due to the Polish state, due to Poles, because these are still fundamental phenomena, and this is still a fundamental challenge for us politicians - to turn into economic sovereignty, recolonisation of finance, good budgets, budgets without a deficit of PLN 40 or 50 billion. Unfortunately, it is still the case that very few Poles are convinced that the contemporary Polish state with the fiscal leadership works exclusively in our common interest, and the repressiveness, restrictiveness of the fiscal is only used to increase tax revenues and to prosecute real sharks who are already cheating tens of billions of zlotys out of this system today. This is changing and I hope that it will change quite effectively - that we will soon be able to say that this tax-avoidance paradise is over. Ladies and gentlemen, while looking at this budget work and assessing the 2015 budget, we do not really know whether we are a tax haven, as some say, or a fiscal hell for some. Who did I make paradise for? Who did I make paradise for? This has occurred in our discussions, in our ratings. It's hard to really tell today who's an honest taxpayer and who's cheating on power, so he's just stealing from all of us. Unfortunately, such phenomena have been observed, after all, they were not only a feature of previous years or 2015. We know about tax optimization on a gigantic scale, tax fraud, tax carousels, various types of tax fraud. Despite the increase or increase in taxation in these years, these revenues were really falling. 2015 is not some particular light in the tunnel, although it can undoubtedly be said that something has moved. The amount of tax revenue due to the Polish State in recent years, which is not received for the state budget, is estimated at PLN 260 billion by some of these two income taxes. Professor Witold Modzelewski estimated these lost revenue for the budget only due to excise duty for recent years at PLN 70 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen a continuous decline in fiscal efficiency throughout the tax system in recent years, and this year means the loss of at least PLN 50 billion each year, and there are experts who say that these are estimates much higher, even up to PLN 90 billion. These are astronomical amounts that have a huge impact not only on the 2015 budget but on the budgets that have passed. Ladies and gentlemen, is this just an indolence - you can ask yourself - is there simply a method in this madness? for an obvious, peaceful robbery of wallets of the Polish state, a public penny and thus wallets of Poles? I mean, over the last few years, there's been a robbery like this. What Mr NIK spoke about, these fictional invoices: in 2014 for 33 billion, in 2015 already for 81 billion PLN, and the largest amount of these fictional returns, because we asked the finance committee of the President, he mentioned the astronomical amount of PLN 1120 million, it is actually done without any consequences, please, because the returns received for the state budget, the recovered money for the state budget was estimated in 2015 at 120 million PLN - these are just pennies, that is for proverbial swabs. That is the case, ladies and gentlemen, best demonstrated by the views of the representatives of the tax offices who claim that large tax offices receive e.g. 500 VAT applications. They can really control between 15 and 20 companies. Often these are phrases worth hundreds of millions of zlotys, or 480 companies get as many returns as they want. We are undoubtedly making progress on this issue - the fuel package and in recent days the arrest of a large smuggling network in the field of fuels, a group which has extorted 500 million PLN from VAT and which has been able to introduce 400 tanks per day into the territory of the Republic of Poland. The tax offices also signaled a new problem, whether the tax authorities, namely they have been observing for several years, in 2015 it was also visible, the phenomenon of legitimizing huge amounts of VAT carousels through the so-called. closed investment funds where the possibility of impact and blocking of this project is limited for the time being. In the social sense, these small, medium Polish entrepreneurs claim that the system of collecting these revenues is repressive for them, that the Polish state is ruthless, suspicious, whereas in relation to these great sharks, these already professional groups of fraudsters are too understanding that it is often helpless, does not apply nor art. 286, or Art. 299 Penal Code. After all, these, as they say, at the cash register, can always count on appropriate amendments, optimizations, proper interpretations. That emphasizes, I hope this ends, that this tax haven for tax fraudsters is about to end. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not, of course, that the mere quality of these rules is the cause of our real financial difficulties with a deficit, with debt, with lost tax revenues. This is still the case, unfortunately, and hopefully this will change, that this is already changing, that some people get arrested for an invoice error, and others get a tax exemption for 10 or 20 years or 500 million PLN due to VAT refund. These phenomena, the catastrophes of VAT revenue are visible because, let us remind you, the 2015 budget originally planned revenue of PLN 136 billion. They were later changed, the implementation was at the level of PLN 123 billion, but if this is calculated in proportion to GDP growth, there is about PLN 145 billion, so there is also a huge difference. Unfortunately, we have had such cases in recent years that there has been a pathology of the fact that by changing in art. 120 on VAT... Adding a comma, please, I repeat: the addition of a comma before the words "for resale" could result in the loss of several billion zlotys for the state budget. Professor Witold Modzelewski claims in his studies that up to PLN 4 billion due to placing a comma differently. Ladies and gentlemen, the root cause of this VAT fraud problem is the pathological implementation of EU law on intra-Community trade, i.e. the zero rate, but of course this is not the only and exclusive case. Often these tax records are completely incomprehensible to a professional, let alone to talk about entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, it must be said that tax laws have been created over recent years, which have protected, legalized tax evasion, public danins, delayed the elimination of tax gaps through which tens and even hundreds of billions of zlotys have leaked. Let me just remind you of the so-called issue. limited liability companies, VAT exemptions or toleration of excise duty non-taxation. the service of the manufacture of cigarettes through the temporary rental of the production machine. I'm not talking about bail bonds anymore or anything like that. with a completely circumstantial example, when one of the largest consulting companies created, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, regulations on carbon excise duty, which simply did not bring income, but rather contributed to the problems of the industry. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say why this was happening. Why did this happen in the tax sphere, tax revenue? Because to a large extent the creation of tax regulations over the last years has simply been privatized, because the Polish state was supposed to be weak. I don't think there's a better way than sealing the tax system, the tax revenue system. It's happening, it's doing it, ladies and gentlemen. It must be said that only the announcement itself - what the Attorney General said - about 25 years for those who consciously commit great tax fraud - will certainly have a significant impact on improving the collection of tax revenue. We have already seen this very clearly at the beginning of this year. It can be estimated that the budget deficit will be lower this year and tax revenue, including VAT, will be significantly higher. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u17	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u18	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! Dear guests! If we hadn't been in this room all along and heard just one last speech, we'd be like space. My previous speaker, the PiS rapporteur, created new legal terms, new economic terms: a potential criminal, told about it. If there's a criminal, there's a crime, and there's a crime to prove. If we're talking about a tax gap in this room, we need to read a little bit of publication first. And these publications are a lot and none of them talk about the amount of PLN 1 billion, even half, and I have read at least five about the tax gap, because that is the problem that is ahead of us. I wouldn't want to scare the Poles. We want to say, and on the way it sounded from the rapporteur, the chairman of the committee, a member of law and justice, that the budget had been well implemented. The President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, who assessed the entire budget, including referring to the monetary policy of the National Bank of Poland, also said good words about the implementation of the budget. Third issue, also the National Bank of Poland on monetary policy conducted in Poland by the National Bank of Poland now, but also under the leadership of the previous President of the National Bank of Poland... I would like to thank President Belka here also for his work in previous years. There was no such thing anywhere. I do not know if the Member has eaten mad and wanted to intimidate everyone here. Potentially in this room, you insulted everyone. I am very pleased that my previous speaker said this because I did not see the Government of Law and Justice implementing the declarations of the Member, my previous speaker - a budget without deficit in the 2016 plans. From what did the current government begin? From the fact that he amended the budget law in 2015. Did you have to? All the experts - the State received these expertise - indicated that all the tasks and tax revenues carried out were as they should be counted. What did you need? The revenue from the LTE auction had to be transferred to 2016. And that's all, and it was known that expenses were being blocked. The state tried to influence Poles by scaring them. You also scared potential investors. Why? It was the country that caused the rating agencies to judge Poland that way. The state itself, knowing what the implementation of the budget looks like after 10 months, introduced an amendment of 15 December for 15 days. Who were you trying to scare? Now you're gonna have to consummate your decisions. And don't count on anybody to help you with that. Over the years, we have heard criticism of a flexible credit line. Did any of you hear that in the 2015 budget and in 2016 for the security of Poles, the government does not want such a solution that the flexible line has been abandoned? No, this line has been renewed and today it must be said that it is safe for Poles. I would like to say that I will not then refer to the budget, but I would also like to say after the speech of the president of the national bank that it is your representative today, President Glapiński said one thing about banking supervision in the structures of the National Bank of Poland. Yeah, we were defending it. It was the country that wanted to change that. And today we have this and we're back to that. What you've ruined, we're fixing today. But it's a good thing you're at least listening to it today. Turning to the implementation of the budget - as I started my speech - I would like to say that, as experts say, there was no need to revise the budget. All the data were known. The transfer of emissions, LTE auctions for 2016, 9,5 billion zlotys ago mainly served, and scared the markets. With this budget, I would like to say important things. The state criticized for 8 years, then made such a spectacle here and showed how it failed with the 340 billion PLN. Today in this budget and in the committee's report it did not turn out to be lost any billion or 5 billion. No one in this room has ever heard that before. So we want you to remember that it was the government of the Civic Platform and PSL that implemented the budget of the European funds that the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber spoke about, among others. It has been well accomplished. That's a lot of money. It was the previous government that negotiated the largest budget of European funds in the Union - EUR 112 billion. And this €112 billion will remain in the economy and serve Poles well. You do not remember the crisis, or at least you do not want to talk about it, and this crisis has affected all world economies very much. We've been through it calmly. The government, Poles, the economy - we went through it calmly. We have a pulled-up growth in our accounts. GDP by 25%. None of the world economies can boast this growth in GDP for this period. In those years when others were slowing down, they lowered salaries, we were at the most blocking them and employed an additional 1 million people in the economy. These are real achievements. We survived the flood of the century. The estimated losses are PLN 10 billion-15 billion, and state aid - within the limit of PLN 5 billion then paid to local governments and Poles. Didn't you notice? Did you see only the tip of your nose and what was wrong? And if there's something wrong, don't complain, just fix it. [[Exactly. That's the point.]] There's no improvement. The implementation of the budget on both the revenue and the costs side, both assessed in the report by the chairman of the Sasin committee and in the speech of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, I think that, as everything points out, both on the revenue and expenditure side was good. This concerns all assumptions and, above all, macroeconomic assumptions for 2015 concerning, among others, economic growth in Poland, i.e. GDP growth, which was much higher, because almost twice as high as in Europe. There were high investment expenditures. Agree that in 2015 they were lower than in 2014, but that was the end of the perspective. Everyone is waiting for new measures to emerge, national, EU, and we will be making investments. What's broken? It's already broken, and it's quick, stabilizing the spending rule. It will never be possible to implement the state budget without a deficit if the State has broken the stabilising expenditure rule. That's one thing. And today, if you're talking about 500+, family support, we think it's important, good, you had to, but the rigid expenses you mentioned increased. Very... [[But that's not the budget.]] ...we are pleased, but it was known that it was realized among others. lower deficit. Of course, there are problems. There is a high grant for the Social Insurance Fund, a loan not used entirely. It is about funding, support from the FUS in this area and the KRUS fund. But in this case, it is worth to say that this country - apart from the contributions paid and beyond the compulsory part - must add 1/3 to the pension and 90% to the witnessing of the KRUS. And that's the scale of the budget payments. Important, I think the most important thing for us is the decline in unemployment. The next years and the next forecasts have been fulfilled, we have less than 10%. This is an important achievement, extremely important. Unemployment fell by half compared to 2005. Surely all those who have experienced an increase in wages - and the average wage has increased, the lowest wages and the lowest pensions have increased - are satisfied with this. Of course you'd want more. As regards the reduction of VAT revenue, we would like to say - the state had comments on this reduction - that in 2015 it was, among others, a reduction. relating to a good solution concerning the transfer of VAT on imports of goods from customs offices to tax offices clearing declarations and that the loss for this reason, the translation, in this particular budget, will be visible. This is the amount of PLN 2 billion. There was also a new way of clearing VAT on passenger cars and other vehicles. We hear so often today the voices of the governing coalition on VAT rates, rates on children's clothes. So, in terms of rates on children's clothes, the state has done nothing. We want to talk about this, and it will be in the statements of our fellow Members that how many important things have been done in the last eight years, so that you will remember that and so as to resist your criticism that money has been lost. We'll show you how many things have changed. We will be in favour of the discharge, which means we will support the absolute resolution. This is about the implementation of the 2015 budget. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, speaking on behalf of Kukiz'15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Dear guests! I will start with an analysis of macroeconomic phenomena, try to review them and discuss them so that it sounds like good advice to the rulers, not like some violent criticism, because the rulers do not have much influence on the macroeconomic situation, rather they go with the current situation. I will then briefly discuss what I have seen in terms of budget implementation as regards the budgetary implementation situation. Then I will refer for a moment to a few parameters related to the assessment of the situation of monetary policy in the National Bank of Poland. And in the end, I'm going to sum up my statement and try to get one appeal. I'm gonna start with him, too, and then I'm gonna do it again. I listened carefully to what the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber said, I listen to and analyse what we are dealing with, and it seems to me that in addition to these three reports, in addition to these three analyses - the analysis of the budget, the analysis of the guarantee and the analysis of the NBP's monetary policy - I believe that one more analysis is needed in this package, one more report, one more information, namely the state of demographics, the demographic situation and the social security situation associated with it. If Mr NIK President, Mr Kwiatkowski, says that this is the most important element that needs to be improved in terms of finance and the greatest threat, and so I read from the report by Mr NIK, if the government decides on the largest social and social programme, let's say, pro-family, let's say, already in more quotes, prodemographically, commonly called 500+, and if the situation of the US is catastrophic when it comes to funding funds related to social security, the situation of the KRUS is not better at all, and as far as pensions of the privileged services are concerned, we still have a discussion on this subject and the tendency to eliminate them - if that is so, in my opinion, the High House should have an up-to-date information on the state of demography, which will take into account demographic processes related to births, deaths, emigration, ageing, financial consequences of this and the sustainability and breakdown of families every year. This information is actually information about national human capital. And as we can assess financial capital, we can assess unemployment, we can assess the macroeconomic situation - we should have an analysis of the demographic situation in the complex, because it is just showing where the previous governments were actually saving and what the consequences of these terrible savings are going to be now for 30 years. As far as the macroeconomic situation is concerned, growth GDP is not sensational, but stable, at a level of 3.5% , and maybe we're already trapped in the middle of development, maybe we're getting close to it. I have seen all these analyses here and I have heard all the voices that compare us to the European Union, but we should not compare ourselves to the European Union, because the European Union is on average 1.5% in this economic growth tail. If we have a medium development trap, there is a geriatric development trap in the European Union in terms of development. This isn't the league we should be in. We should be in the fast-growing league, not in the twilight league of states, so to speak, economics. As far as macroeconomic parameters are concerned, it is important to emphasise the increase in exports, whose growth rate is faster than GDP growth, and this growth is increasing as exports have already increased by almost 7%. If we do not want to overheat internal demand, it is in a sense this expansion that we should be pursuing. Nevertheless, we should imitate Germany to some extent. With exports, we are the fastest able to increase the pace of our economic growth. As far as household consumption is concerned, it is growing, at the moment it is lower than the rate of GDP growth, because this is 3.1, but I think that unfortunately the 500+ programme will not have a demographic impact, but it will certainly result in an increase in household consumption and this consumption will have a faster pace than the rate of GDP growth. This is not harmful for the time being, but in the long term for economic development, the growth in consumption faster than GDP growth will mean in some form debting either to households or to countries that will transfer household money but will have to borrow themselves. These two elements cannot be balanced in the long term, which is to maintain a sustainable economy and to increase household consumption at a faster pace than GDP growth. As far as investment expenditures are concerned, they fell, they were 10% , it's 5.8. We can justify this with money, transfers from the European Union, but investment expenditure is a forecast for economic growth, today's investment is tomorrow's economic growth, that's the basis for economics. Therefore, it should be noted here that if the government wants to make a leap in economic growth, it must first make a leap in investments, and not necessarily centrally planned in the Ministry of Development, but those allocated by the market, free market, related to Polish entrepreneurship. As far as wages are concerned, they are growing steadily. Now they grow a little faster than in 2015, but this increase is 3.2% , close to GDP growth, is, in my opinion, as adequate as possible and wage growth should not be speeded up too much. More focus should be placed on reducing labour taxation. This is where we need to look for an increase in the wealth of workers, people living from work, rather than overpowering the rate of wage growth and at the same time driving tax growth, because the rate of wage growth that is not linked to labour productivity, which is not GDP, overgrowth of GDP and long-term productivity of labour will not provide us with stable growth. As far as inflation is concerned, as far as monetary phenomena are concerned, we have deflation. This deflation is already going on, and I think it's gonna be the second anniversary of the deflation. As far as inflation is concerned, not this consumption, CPI, but this PPI index, this industrial index, he is already in the report here, -2.2%. Here it is clear that in the industrial sector the problem of deflation is more powerful and much more serious than purely consumer deflation. In the long term, this will also not be a positive impetus in terms of the development of industrial production. As far as trade in goods is concerned, we have a surplus +0.5% GDP. As far as current turnover is concerned, we also have significant revenue. As regards, briefly, the deficit and budgetary expenditure, please note that we have a significant increase in expenditure, a small increase in revenue. Here I would focus primarily on the tragic situation with regard to VAT, because if we have 3.5% of GDP growth That's an increase in indirect tax revenue, we have -0.9% of VAT. I will also refer to the increase in public debt. Public debt continues to grow, and although the economic growth we generate is faster than the growth in public debt, it is important to be careful because we are a young economy and that debt is more felt than the debt of such Japan or such Italy, countries which have a much higher nominal level of GDP and can afford to finance a much higher level of debt than we are. Our autonomous consumption is much higher due to the level of GDP and we cannot finance, as an economy, an ever-growing debt at that level in order to maintain sustainability in the long term. Finally, I wanted to refer to the issue of the National Bank of Poland. I remind you that the third year in a row, as Mr NIK said, the inflation target is much higher, the NBP inflation target is much higher than what is in reality. Therefore, I call on the NBP to actually either lower the inflation target or adjust the level of real interest rates so that we pursue this inflation target, and not still have this significant hill as far as the inflation target is concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u21	Thank you very much. I will ask Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests! Today we are assessing the implementation of the budget for the previous year, actually judging two governments. The revenue of the state budget in 2015 was realized in the amount of PLN 289 billion and was 0.8% higher, as it already fell here. , but in relation to the revised budget law. Compared to the original budget plan, the revenue side was not implemented, there was no more than PLN 8 billion, which is 2,7%. There weren't enough, among other things. moved to the current year revenues from the LTE frequency auction, the position that the new government supported in fulfilling its own electoral promises, although it should actually reduce the budget deficit last year. This is the first evidence that Law and Justice will put the value of their own electoral promises ahead of reason and the welfare of public finances. Today we have another example of this in the public debate on reducing the retirement age. I have the impression that, unfortunately, once again, we will have the same results. Also the assumed VAT revenues were not realised, this was already said here, which is beginning to be a serious and recurring problem in Poland. The revenue from the tax on goods and services was lower than the revenue obtained from that year earlier by almost 1%. This is a lot, because it is already over PLN 1 billion decrease compared to the revenues of the previous year. The VAT receipts were also lower than originally planned and by PLN 11.5 billion, i.e. 8,5%. This plan wasn't so much overestimated, it was just a waste of execution. Revenue from excise duties was also carried out below the original plan. We have the lowest efficiency of tax administration in Europe and the highest cost ratio of this administration in relation to tax revenue. This means that the collection of the zloty tax in Poland costs the most of all the countries of the European Union. We need to increase the efficiency of the tax administration, not increase its costs and increase it. Today I have the impression that the Government of Law and Justice does not have a coherent vision - and it is a bit crawling in place - how to solve this problem, even though in the election campaign they assured their voters that they have concrete solutions. The efficiency of the state in collecting accrued taxes is getting worse. Tax arrears for the previous year amounted to PLN 17.6 billion, which represents 6% the revenue generated by the budget. Current revenue and tax arrears from previous years have been reduced by the tax authorities. Deterioration of tax collection is a consequence of increased tax fraud and state failure to prosecute tax offenders, in enforcing imposed penalties. It is very worrying that budget expenditure is growing much faster than revenue. This situation will not improve the state of public finances, and in the longer term it is a disaster. Expenditure grew faster, even though we presume that the PiS government held back significant expenses at the end of the year to keep the deficit in check by transferring part of the revenue for this year. The initial revenue from VAT and excise duty was not realised, although GDP increased by 3.6% throughout 2015 in real terms. , i.e. 2% more than predicted. It is also worth noting that the main growth factor was domestic demand, but its dynamics were lower than the year before. The lower pace of demand growth is mainly the result of slowing down the pace of investment growth. This slowed down by nearly half compared to 2014. Worst of all, we have been accompanied by a further drop in the pace of investment since the beginning of this year. The indicators affected investment in the public sector. The government is getting lost in the fog, there is no idea how to stimulate investment when fuel is run out of resources from the European Union. The only plus here is that the scale of the investment increased faster than GDP. This was supported by the high competitiveness of Polish companies, their financial stability and low interest rates on loans. There's nothing to be happy about. All of this has been ruined in recent months. Today, the feeling of instability and security of the PiS discourages investment in Poland. The financial condition of the Social Insurance Fund has further deteriorated, as also noted by the Supreme Audit Chamber. Despite the increase of nearly PLN 12 billion in subsidies from the state budget in the FUS cash register, there was a shortage of money. The subsidy for the FUS from the state budget in 2015 was already PLN 42 billion and this was not enough. The Minister of Finance for liquidity provision of ZUS granted the company an additional loan of PLN 8.6 billion. The total amount of the Social Insurance Institution's liabilities for the loans received amounted to 45.3 billion at the end of last year. In the absence of a return perspective, the funds borrowed from the Social Security Office should be included in the expenditure and not only in the expenditure of the State budget and thus increase the budget deficit. Today, the government is acting out of line with the basic accounting principles and pretending to be a reverse loan. It shall reschedule its final repayment by one year and book the debts. In turn, if the amount of this loan were only included in expenditure in 2015, it would increase the deficit which would ultimately increase to 3% in relation to GDP, thus to the limit that applies to us. The Government of Law and Justice copy bad practices after its predecessors and play with the wrong accountant. In this situation, the Modern Club cannot vote in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget for the previous year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u23	Thank you very much. I will ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska to speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! Gentlemen of the presidents! High Izbo! In assessing the implementation of the budget law in the name of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to signal, first of all, the economic and economic and social situation in the world and in Poland. In the absence of time, I will actually do it in a signal manner. The International Monetary Fund estimates that the global economy grew slower in 2015 than in 2014. GDP in the European Union increased annually by 1.9% , and in the euro area countries by 1.6%. In Poland GDP increased by 3.6%, i.e. a 0,2% more than the forecast and twice the average of the European Union. 2015 was the next year for Poland, in which the state budget was implemented under conditions more favourable than assumed. Unemployment rate, unemployment rate was 7.5% in Poland with indicators: in the European Union - 9,4% , in the euro area - 10.9%. The monetary policy of the National Bank of Poland was conducted in accordance with monetary policy principles, which supported the maintenance of sustainable economic growth and stability of the financial system. Growth has been stable, employment has increased significantly. The remuneration and demand for consumption steadily increased, the scale of investments increased, as well as the credit action. In Poland, for the first time after 1989, a deflation occurred. The main cause of deflation was the strong decline in raw material prices on world markets. In all months of 2015, annual inflation rates were negative and in February the annual deflation was record-breaking and amounted to -1.6%. Therefore, in March 2015, the Monetary Policy Council reduced the NBP interest rates by 0.5 percentage points, including the reference rate to 1,5%. As a result, the interest rates of the National Bank of Poland were at the lowest level in history. The value of exports from Poland for the first time since the 1990s was higher than imports. I will also add that the state budget was implemented until June under discipline, i.e. excessive deficit procedures, including a stabilising expenditure rule, which unfortunately was loosed by the government and PiS Members during 2015. It is merely to remind you that such a situation of good change today called economic ruin in the campaign. This lie also sounded in today's speech by Mr PiS. Under these conditions, the revenue of the state budget and the budget of European funds amounted to PLN 356.6 billion and were 0.8% higher. , than planned, and by 0.6% higher than revenue 2014. The expenditure of the state budget and the budget of European funds amounted to PLN 399,4 billion and was higher than the expenditure incurred in 2014 by 4,9%. and 1.5% lower than the statutory limit. The planned deficit of PLN 50 billion amounted to PLN 42.6 billion, and it should be recalled that the plan was increased by PLN 3.6 billion during the revision of the Budget Act in December 2015. It was unnecessary, unnecessary, and it can even be determined that it was a manipulation of the budget while hiding revenue, or actually transferring revenue to the current year, from the LTE auction. The settlement of funds with the European Union is very beneficial for Poland. We received PLN 54,6 billion in 2015 and Poland's payments to the budget amounted to 18.2 billion, hence the balance of the accounts between Poland and the Union amounted to PLN 36,4 billion. Poland was the largest beneficiary of cohesion and RDP measures and the main recipient of direct payments from the new Member States of the Union. Nor do they call into question the State Treasury's actions on the guarantees and guarantees granted. They were allocated 11 for a total amount of 8.5 billion. These were mainly related to infrastructure investments. In addition, a State Treasury guarantee of PLN 250 million was granted to the NBP for the commitments of the Cooperative Bank of Craft and Agriculture in Volomina. The further decline in tax revenues in relation to GDP is an unfavorable phenomenon accompanying the implementation of the budget law. I'm not going to present them in turns, they're shrinking. The tax gap mostly concerns the tax on goods and services and requires the sealing of the tax system. Another equally worrying phenomenon is the negative balance in health care. NFZ and SPOZ ended 2015 with a deficit of about PLN 300 million. The reason for this may be the chronic underfinancing of health care. According to the European Commission data, only 4.6% of public health services in Poland GDP, while on average in the Union 7.2 GDP. It seems that today the shortcomings of this budget should be shown more precisely. After yesterday's introduction by the PiS of a project making high increases for executive positions, it might be more decent to think about nurses, doctors, technical staff, pensioners and Customs who go out on the streets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. The Supreme Audit Chamber also draws attention to the further deterioration of the financial condition of the Social Insurance Fund. The Public Finance Commission, like NIK, welcomed the implementation of the State budget in 2015. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party welcomes the implementation of the budget and we will vote in favour of the resolution on the report on the implementation of the budget and on discharge for the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u25	Thank you very much, Member. I will ask Mrs Margaret Zwierzan to speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I will refer to the report on the use of the statutory limit of guarantees and guarantees of the State Treasury for 2015. The report shows that last year a State Treasury guarantee was granted for a total amount of 8750 million, which represents less than 4.5% the amount of the limit scheduled for 2015. It should be noted that the limit has been set at 200 billion. This size has been established preventively at an opportunity level to take effective action in the event of possible deterioration of the conditions of the Polish financial system in the face of the global financial and economic crisis, and potential actions would give the possibility to support financial sector entities. It is important in the report to make little use of the projected limit, which proves that the conditions of the Polish financial and economic system have not deteriorated. The Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle is in favour of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u27	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta, Club Law and Justice to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! In my speech, I will spend more time on the budget than on politics. I'll refer to a few parts of the state budget. A significant part of the expenditure of the state budget is the general subsidy for local self-government units. A general subsidy of 51 343 320 000 is planned in the 2015 Budget Act. PLN and these expenses were made 100%. General subsidies accounted for 15.5% all budget expenditure in 2015 The most important part of this subsidy was education subsidy, which amounted to 40 376 935 thousand. PLN, which represents nearly 79% of the total subsidy. The following items included: the compensatory part of the subsidy for municipalities of PLN 6,14 billion, the compensatory part for powiats - 1,6 billion PLN, compensatory part for voivodships - 950 million PLN and balancing part of general subsidies for powiats - 1,062 billion PLN. The educational part of the grant was intended to finance educational tasks carried out by local governments referred to in the Education System Act. The educational part of the general subsidy was higher by more than PLN 877 million compared to 2014. The total expenditure from the state budget and the European budget in 2015 for education and education and educational care amounted to nearly PLN 45 billion and was higher than the expenditure incurred in this respect in 2014 by nearly PLN 900 million, i.e. 2%. In 2015, the total expenditure from the state budget, the budget of European funds and the budgets of local government units for Polish education and education and educational care amounted to PLN 67 billion and was higher than the corresponding expenditure in 2014 by PLN 1.5 billion, i.e. More than 2.2%. The ratio of total budgetary expenditure incurred in 2015 to finance education and education and educational care tasks to the estimated value of GDP in 2015 amounted to 3,7% , while the ratio of educational expenditure for educational tasks to the total expenditure of the state budget and the budget of European funds incurred in 2015 was 11.3%. These significant budget expenditures were allocated in 2015 to: 2162 general education schools with the number of young people 500 000. people, 1876 technicians with a total number of young people over 505 thousand, 1309 basic vocational schools with a number of young people more than 167 thousand, 345 artistic schools with a number of young people more than 27 thousand, police schools with a number of young people more than 27 thousand. and 12 717 primary schools with 2447 000 children The major expenditure item of the State budget was the special provisions, part 83 of the budget. A special reserve of 21 663 936 000 is planned in the 2015 Budget Act. zł. Following changes during the financial year, the amount of the special-purpose reserves amounted to 19 275 292 thousand. zł. These reserves were distributed in 94%. Of the 87 special-purpose reserves, the highest position was provision 8: Co-financing of projects involving European Union funds amounting to 3 229 641 thousand. To increase the availability of pre-school education, PLN 1.623 billion were allocated. More than PLN 1 billion has been allocated under the special-purpose reserve of heading 40 to increase the remuneration of higher education staff. A reserve of PLN 1.030 billion was earmarked for the prevention and disposal of natural disasters. The aid for agricultural fuel was allocated from the special reserves of 800,000. zł. The reserve of the 25th was financed with the amount of PLN 933 million in social assistance tasks. A reserve of PLN 706 million was earmarked for the levelling of educational opportunities for children and young people. As part of the 65th special-purpose reserve, the amount of PLN 715 million was allocated to support buyers of residential premises. A reserve of PLN 1 billion was allocated for the implementation of the National Local Road Redevelopment Programme. The outstanding liabilities of the State Treasury were financed with a reserve of PLN 16.00 million. Out of the 37th reserve, the contribution for the European Union budget was supplemented by PLN 400 million. The funds for the voivodship roads were allocated from the reserve of PLN 54. 268 million. From the reserve under heading 59., environmental protection tasks were financed by nearly PLN 500 million. The Material Reserve Agency was supplied with a reserve of PLN 91. 380 million. The tasks resulting from the Children's Care Act under the age of 3 were allocated from the reserve of PLN 58. close to PLN 151 million. From the special reserve from the pose. 50 were allocated PLN 210 million to maintain meliorative equipment. More than PLN 271 million have been allocated to important tasks related to the implementation of health policy programmes. From the special reserve from the pose. 45 PLN was allocated over 270 million to finance the tasks of local government units. A total of PLN 266 million has been allocated to combat infectious animal diseases. Over PLN 67 million were allocated from the special reserve for the implementation of the Large Family Charter. The amount of PLN 200 million was allocated to State aid for nutrition from the special-purpose reserve. From this presentation of expenditure from the special provisions of the state budget in 2015 it is clear that the financial resources from the special provisions have been allocated to important tasks in various areas of the functioning of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform Club, another speech. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u30	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We should look at the state budget from the point of view of not only financial execution, but also of task. The State budget shall carry out specific tasks. In our budget, in the budget of the Polish state, an important expenditure and task force are defence expenditures. The year 2015 was special because we adopted a law increasing the level of expenditure from 1.95% GDP up to 2% GDP. It was also specific from this point of view that we met the same request of the Alliance, NATO, regarding the expenditure of the Member States, while preparing this great event, which was the NATO summit in Warsaw a few days ago. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish Armed Forces. The entire effort of the Polish state, which was written down in the field of carrying out tasks for 2015, was carried out almost in full. This effort consisted of our international cooperation, military training, military exercises, but above all the process of technical modernisation. As we know, we are in the process of increasing the combat potential of our Armed Forces. Most tasks or almost all tasks have been accomplished, except... Maybe: total budget implementation in this respect was 98% , for technical modernisation - 94% In view of the fact that, at the end of the year - already under the rule of law and justice - two important procedures relating to the acquisition of aircraft for the carriage of the most important persons in the State were not resolved. Unfortunately, this tender, for the second time in history, has already been cancelled, nor has the key tender procedure concerning the acquisition of military support helicopters been settled. I believe that these tasks will be achieved this year, although it has been half a year and we have not yet heard any good news on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen, returning to the fundamental point of this great task, which is the defence of the state, it must be said that it consists of our allies' obligations and allies' guarantees. And this is the first pillar of our security. The second pillar, on the other hand, is our own potential. For years we have been implementing, it can be said that 2015 is the result of a long process, a long process that we have been conducting in Poland, in particular what was done in the years 2007-2008 in the field of modernization of the Armed Forces. It was then that we introduced the fully professional Armed Forces, then we defined the status of a professional soldier so attractive that we had volunteers for military service, then we introduced the law on the accommodation of the Armed Forces. We've settled, I mean. Finally, we ended up with a certain impossibility, with a great difficulty, which lasted for decades, namely as regards securing apartments for soldiers. It was the Accommodation Act that solved this problem from 2008. Ladies and gentlemen, professional armed forces are professional forces, they are very well-trained armed forces. We didn't cut the training expenses. For several years now - this was the case in 2015 - military exercises and training include several hundred projects and several tens of thousands of soldiers. The last important element, perhaps the most important element of the professional armed forces, is good equipment. We are implementing a bold, ambitious technical modernisation programme. In the process of technical modernisation, we also took care to consolidate the Polish defence industry, so that it could be an important element in this process, so that the huge money we spend on technical modernisation will also serve the economic support of our country. 2015 is the result of many years of work in this area. I believe it will continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u31	Thank you very much. The next Member to speak is Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz'15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I know I have very little time, and I will concentrate on one thing. According to the information provided, in August 2015 at the request of SK Bank Skarb Państwa provided a guarantee of PLN 250 million for the National Bank of Poland. The amount paid by the State Treasury to the NBP from this guarantee ultimately amounted to PLN 185 million. Given the subsequent bankruptcy of SK Bank announced in December 2015, and thus shortly after the granting of the guarantee, it is clear that it was not justified and necessary. So the question is, how many similar events were there? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u33	Thank you very much. And another Member, Krzysztof Truskolaska, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u34	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to sum up the European budget for 2015. Both the revenue and the expenditure of the budget of European funds reached lower values in 2015 than those planned. Deficit amounted to PLN 3.2 billion. This was almost ten times higher than in 2014. According to the Supreme Audit Chamber's report, the deficit of the European budget was the result of a decision by the Minister of Finance on the use made of refunds and advances provided by the European Commission. In 2015, the European Commission transferred PLN 54,6 billion. European revenue amounted to 64.5 billion at the end of 2015, i.e. around 83% assumptions according to the budget law, and expenditure amounted to about PLN 67.7 billion, which also represented around 83% The plan. High Seym! If we want to be seen as a country with a strong position in the European Union, we need to increase our R &amp; D funding, because at the end of 2015 it was only 0.9%. GDP, and on average in the European Union, it is about 2% GDP. In mid-November 2015, the level of financial clearance of EU funds for the period 2007 to 2013 was too low and amounted to around 90%. The amount for which invoices still had to be presented was PLN 40 billion, of which PLN 30 billion was a contribution from the European Union. We could have lost this money, but luckily at the end of the year we managed to secure the use of EU funds of 11.3 billion, unfortunately we will most likely lose the rest. At the end of December, the European Commission reimbursed Poland €57.5 billion, about 85%. Cohesion policy funds [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the period 2007-2013. The perspective of 2007 and 2013 has not yet been completed, and we should already benefit from the perspective of 2014 and 2020 long ago. By the end of February, we spent 3 billion euros, and we should spend so much on a new perspective each month. Unfortunately, in many aspects, the PiS government is copying the wrong policy of the Civic Platform government. All the irregularities we have presented have confirmed us in the decision that the Modern Posel Club will vote against granting discharge to the Council of Ministers for 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u35	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, near Free and Solidarnia. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u36	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report on the implementation of the State budget for 2015 and the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland. The level of macroeconomic indicators achieved should be positively assessed. In particular, it is worth recalling GDP growth, which has increased by 3.6% in real terms, average employment in the national economy, which has increased by 1.3% in the business sector, as well as an increase in average wage by 3.2%. , as well as increasing the purchasing power of wages and falling the unemployment rate to 9,8%. Based on the analysis of the Supreme Audit Chamber, it is important to point out worrying developments in the implementation of the Budget Law. Firstly, a decrease in the tax-to-GDP ratio, which means that an improvement in the economic situation does not translate into an adequate increase in fiscal revenue from taxes. The government's debt in 2015 increased by PLN 23 billion and the tax arrears accounted for as much as 76.7% Total arrears. It is therefore necessary to seal the tax system, mainly in the area of VAT, which can be done mainly by redesigning the system towards simplification. For example, Romania, which in the last year has made some bold efforts to reduce the burden on micro-entrepreneurs and the poorest citizens, e.g. By reducing VAT on food, it was able to obtain in the first quarter of this year tax revenues up to 7% higher than in the same period last year, including an increase in corporation tax by 32% and maintenance, despite a reduction in the previous VAT receipts. Secondly, the increase in public debt to a much lower value than that of the end of 2013, which means that the money taken over by the ZUS from OFE within 2 years has been almost completely consumed. Thirdly, the growing amount of ZUS liabilities is terrified. The loan amounted to as much as PLN 45.3 billion at the end of 2015. If these transfers were counted as expenditure, there would be an increase in the deficit by PLN 8.6 billion. As a result, a thorough reconstruction of the pension system is urgently needed. The report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2015 should be assessed positively. The bank's policy was conducted in line with monetary policy. The Monetary Policy Council sought to maintain price stability while maintaining sustainable economic development and the stability of the financial system. The inflation target was also maintained at 2.5%. The effects of adverse deflation have also been avoided. The security and liquidity of cash flows and the relatively stable rate of zloty vis-à-vis other currencies should be appreciated. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In conclusion, the Free and Solidarni Circle will support the draft resolution submitted on the report on the implementation of the State budget for 2015 and the discharge to be given to the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u37	I ask that Mrs Maria Zuba, the Law and Justice Club, speak because such a request for conversion has been made. There is a Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u38	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When we discuss the 2015 implementation report on the state budget, we need to stop at least for a moment on social policy and family matters. We must do this by touching the details to realise what the situation is like in these important areas that affect every Pole. Several funds have been created to social security Polish families, which unfortunately have been operating in violation of the law for years. Neither Prime Minister Donald Tusk's government nor Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz's government have done anything to correct this situation for eight years. I'll start with the Labor Fund. His revenues in 2015 were lower than in 2014, although unemployment by statistics and previously reported by PO Members has decreased, while contributions are a consequence of employment and tax base. The year 2015 was another year for the government of PO and PSL financing from this fund of costs related to specialisation and the implementation of post-graduate internships for doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives. When Prime Minister Tusk first introduced such funding into the state budget in 2009, he announced that this was an accident. Unfortunately, 2015 was also the year of financing these tasks from the Labour Fund. Another fund is the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund set up to protect employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer. Despite the high level of funds from the fund, which at the beginning and at the end of the reporting year amounted to more than PLN 5 billion, it covered only 34 employees as part of the protection of jobs, and the amount of aid paid from the fund account for 817 employees amounted to 3,900 thousand. PLN, which is just 1.6% the amount planned for that year. The question is, why did the fund give so little help? Was the labour market so good in 2015 that the government of Ewa Kopacz did not see the need to protect jobs? Isn't the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund needed? Was the company's condition that good? We know what the market situation was like. Syndicates under the government of PO and PSL were avalanchely taking over other companies. So the question remains unanswered. [[What? What companies?]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is difficult to understand why the government of the Civic Platform and PSL could afford to spend 696 thousand in commercial media. Zloty for promotion... [[Can you afford a raise?]] ...inappropriately prepared multi-annual programme.Senior - WIGOR. As a result, the poor preparation was not used 17% the amount planned for the implementation of this programme. The theme to which we have been drawing the attention of the Prime Minister Kopacz's government throughout the year is the implementation of the Operational Programme, which has not been implemented. This aid was not covered by approx. 1/4 of the Polish municipalities. The question is whether there were people in need in these municipalities. Why didn't the government promote this program here? Why didn't he get to these municipalities? Why didn't the politicians of the Civic Platform try to get the money reserved in the budget for this program to be used? Over the past year, the Social Insurance Fund has deteriorated further. My previous speakers referred to this problem. In 2015, the fund was endowed with an interest-free loan of PLN 5.5 billion from the state budget and the Demographic Reserve Fund funds from the transfer of assets from OFE and interest on the assets of contributions from OFE under the so-called. A safety slider. Nevertheless, the fund decreased by PLN 5.6 billion in one year. The state of the Social Insurance Fund at the end of 2015 was negative and amounted to PLN 45 924 million. At the same time, it is indebted to the State Treasury for over PLN 45 billion. By the government of PO and PSL without consulting the owners of the attack on the funds of OFE under the so-called. safety slider and increase in contributions due to a decrease of approximately 85% Number of members Ofe had no significant impact on the reduction of the ZUS deficit. 2015 was another, seventh year, in which the State Treasury provided the Social Insurance Fund with funding under the loan. In the next reports, we asked the presidents of the Social Security Office how to repay the loan, how these funds would be returned to the budget. Unfortunately, the answer was one: basically no prospect of return. I would like to point out that the government of PO and PSL also left the outstanding issue of the rules on the transfer of principal from OFE to ZUS and the interest on these funds after 2014. I would like to remind you that this issue has been set out in the law adopted by the Sejm only by 2014, after this year this process takes place on a presumption basis. How will this problem be solved? It's a problem that was left to the successors. Also, the issue of extending the contract to support the operation and maintenance of the KSI ZUS IT system was not prospectively ordered by the government of PO and PSL. The situation is that the limit of the measures provided for in this agreement has already been exceeded, until the end of the contract about 35 million PLN is missing and there is still no solution, a decision as to how this IT system is to be operated. Another fund whose financial condition deteriorated last year is the Pension Fund. This is a similar situation to that of previous years and is due to expenditure higher than revenue. In 2015, only 59% of revenue was paid for. costs incurred. The deficit was covered by the funds collected in the fund's account in previous years, but this stock melted from PLN 229 million to PLN 65 million. This means that leaving this fund with this unsolved problem will result in the Pomeranian Pension Fund being the second after the Social Security Office to require support from the state budget. How can we assess the inadequacy and mismanagement of the Civic Platform and PSL government? The public assessed this, gave the government the red card of Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz in the election. The Supreme Audit Chamber suggests that the government, like the year 2003, solves the problem of the Social Security Office by introducing a law that will cancel the loan commitments from the state budget. Is this a solution that we should consider? It is also a pebble left in the backyard of the current government. I would also like to devote a few words to health care, because this important area of social life, as the report shows, was greatly neglected in 2015. In this respect, I will refer briefly to some of the most important issues. I would like to draw attention to the inefficient supervision of the implementation of the Electronic Assembly Platform, the Analysis and Sharing of Digital Resources on Medical Events - despite signaling already since 2011, the risk of failure to achieve the goal of the project within the prescribed time limit continued to be bad and ineffective. According to the report, many actions have been taken, but they have ultimately proved ineffective. In 2015, the Minister for Health failed to implement two important health policy programmes on important health and social problems. It is a national programme to reduce mortality due to chronic lung diseases by creating non-invasive mechanical ventilation rooms and a programme to prevent depression in Poland for the years 2015-2019. Failure to implement the program for prevention of depression occurs when the number of cases of depression in Poland is increasing avalanchely. Unfortunately, depression in our country is especially experienced by young people. Annually, according to statistics, suicide is committed by about 6,000. Poles, which means that one small disappears from the map of Poland during the year Six thousandths of a town. Also from the budget of the European Ministry of Health for the implementation of the programme from a new financial perspective for the period 2014 to 2020 used a small amount of resources. By the end of 2015, the Ministry used less than 10% the amount adopted in the Budget Act and approximately 36% the plan following the changes for 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u39	Thank you very much. Please speak on behalf of Mr Stanisław Żmijan's Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir. [[Stasia, keep your head up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! 2015 in transport infrastructure was the year in which we completed investments in infrastructure from the financial perspective of 2007 and 2014 and entered into investments from the programme, the 2014-2020 budget. We have implemented four basic programmes in this area. It was a national road construction programme, a national local road reconstruction programme, reconstruction of public service airports and of course modernisation of the railway network. Of course, it was not easy, but the results cannot be denied. I allow myself to say this after hearing Mrs Zuby speak just now. [[Oh, it hurts, it hurts.]] During this time, we realized 1500 km for the planned construction of the motorways at 1800 km. At the moment, I hope that 300 km, which are already under way, will be completed by the Government of Law and Justice. With regard to high-speed roads, the plan was 2,000 km, and we also realized 1,500 km. Why did I say it wasn't easy? It was not easy, I would ask you, because when the Government of the Civic Platform and the PSL started implementing these programmes, there was a complete lack of legal tooling for the preparation of these investments. In order not to get divorced, let me remind you that there has been an incident in the Rospuda Valley, the Government of Law and Justice. We've lost a lot of money, time and so on. We have prepared basic legal acts, I will remind you, in terms of location of investments, in terms of environmental decisions and we have entered into implementation. Last year we also adopted a programme for the continuation of the reconstruction of national roads amounting to PLN 107 billion. I hope that the Government of Law and Justice, effectively using our experience, will implement this programme. A programme of modernisation of the railway network amounting to PLN 67.5 billion has been prepared and adopted. I hope that you will also achieve results here, because they are very much needed in Poland. It is true that at the moment, on your initiative, you have prepared, we have adopted a railway specialist that will certainly facilitate this process. As far as airport transport is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, of course an additional impulse was the European Football Championship, but let me remind you that in 2012 we modernised all public-use airports, our central port. Chopin in Warsaw, as well as all regional airports. We were ready to take any number of fans to this sports event. We have prepared the modernisation of the entire eastern border, because it was the border of the European Union to protect it properly, carry out transport and, of course, collect appropriate tolls, all crossings, i.e. 14 rail and road crossings with Ukraine, 13 rail and road crossings and one river crossing with Belarus, as well as seven crossings with Russia. I wanted to reiterate with all my power that the effects in this area are undisputable. I would like you to be able to share similar achievements in this area by finishing your term of office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u41	Thank you very much. The next person to speak is Anna Paluch, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to focus in my speech on the issues of our country's activities in 2015, for which expenditure has been collected in budget section 22: Water management and budget section 41: Environment. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2015, the units supervised by the then Minister of Environment, in particular the General Directorate for Environmental Protection and the National Water Management Board, did not fully fulfil the scope of the planned tasks. The National Water Management Board has not completed the implementation of the project "Informational System of National Shield against extraordinary threats" - ISOK. This system is required by the provisions of the Flood Directive and the Water Framework Directive implemented in Polish law and is essential to ensure proper protection of the country from flooding. Also the National Water Management Board has not completed the implementation of the Swine Poręba Water Tank, the construction of which, I will remind you, has lasted since 1986, i.e. for 30 years. The reason for these delays was not only natural conditions... [[Tusk's fault!]] ...a hydrological drought that prevents the tank from being filled, but also a bad preparation of the planned works. Both of these omissions were repaired by the relevant bill proposals at the beginning of the 8th term of office. In turn, the Directorate-General for Environment was to ensure the implementation of 74 conservation plans and two Natura 2000 conservation plans. Despite the release of 99% Only 36, or less than half, was created for these measures, and the protective plans, which I will remind you were to be two, were to be zero. There was no real supervision by the director-general of environmental protection over its regional directorates, and the events described are a clear signal that the previous minister of the environment did not ensure - despite such an obligation, which follows from the Act on Public Finance - an appropriate management control system, i.e. that no targets were set for the implementation of the subordinate units, that they were not monitored. And despite the public spending, no tangible effects have been achieved. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the planning of expenditure in budget part 22: Water management and budgetary part 41: The environment is left in the budgetary reserve and increased during the financial year. Examples: in the budget section 22, the expenditure limit was increased by 160% during the financial year 2015 and in the budget part 41 increased by 55%. Such a method of financing radically impedes the rational performance of public tasks. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few more words about the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, which is for the right minister - responsible for the environment, of course - a fundamental tool for implementing the policy of conservation of natural resources. National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, whose assets, i.e. cash and securities as well as loans receivable, closes at PLN 10 362 million, during the past five years he has provided very generous grants. This generosity of the previous Management Board of NFOŚiGW, which best expresses the level of grants of forms of assistance in comparison with loan forms, of course, is - in order not to be literal - 75% grants in the years 2010-2011, i.e. 25% It was just loans. In 2013 the grant forms are 62% , in 2014 - 67% and it is only in 2015 that there is about half-balance, i.e. 47% grants and 53% loans. Moreover, over the past five years, the granting of interest payments to commercial banks caused tangible losses to NFOŚiGW. This is a loss - as it is estimated at the moment, as the Management Board estimated - of PLN 303 million on non-profitable interest rates and, on the other hand, the payment to the interest rate on commercial banks' loans is a necessity to pay PLN 286 million, i.e. together it gives lost benefits of PLN 589 million. It should be noted here that these abundant subsidies were not paid to Polish poor communities, but mainly to large, strong European entities. Again, ladies and gentlemen, an example: EDF - Électricité de France, whose sales revenue in 2015 closes to EUR 75 billion, received from the national fund 61 053 000. PLN grants for three projects, and the company Veolia, also French, whose sales revenues for 2015 reached EUR 25 billion, received PLN 37 million from the national fund in the form of grants. It is therefore hardly surprising that after years of such incredible generosity, and let's call it by name - wastefulness, especially for large and strong entities, the forecast of liquidity for the basic fund at the end of 2016 was 23 million and next year - minus 28 million PLN. And I would like to remind you that the national fund has sub-funds, described in the Environmental Law, on which payments are collected from the different types of fees and penalties for the use of the environment, and must spend them for specific purposes from which they are collected. Thus, a certain freedom to dispose of funds concerns only the basic fund. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The new management of the national fund has really got something to clean up in this Augias stable. To conclude, I would also like to reply to Mr Żmijan. Well, you mentioned the Rospuda incident. I would remind you, Mr President, that the winning of the Rospuda case before the European Court was at the beginning of the governments of the PO, because the Polish government, Minister Szyszko, won this process. And the PO government, instead of executing the winnings by Minister Szyszka, called a round table for Rospuda and led to the fact that Augustów's ring road is overlaying 10 km. What is the communication emissions on these extra 10 kms, it's you. Do the math. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u43	Thank you very much. Another Member is Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u44	Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! When it comes to the budget, it is often said that there are external rules that everyone adheres to so that they do not happen to be responsible for any abuse. There is an external framework, internal framework, there are laws, there is a finance minister and these posts must agree. I would like to draw attention to a few things, adding to two, on the other hand, not formally, how public money is spent, but in terms of substance, how it is managed by a public penny. I say this from the point of view of the Treasury, which is a tool for rational public spending. I have the full satisfaction of looking at the budgetary revenues from privatisation and the privatisation processes carried out by the previous coalition, because in the most difficult period for you we could use this tool and we went through the crisis with a dry leg. Information provided by professionals, industry, as well as politicians, that the budget is indicatively good, that all evaluations are positive, are not random, because privatisation also served budget revenue. When it was the worst, it was possible to use this money for budgetary revenue, but at the stage when we started investing funds, we changed the strategy of managing Treasury companies. The emphasis was placed on improving companies so that dividend revenue is a significant revenue of the budget, not of privatisation - it was included in the strategy adopted by the government. The second topic I wanted to draw attention to, driving the economic economy, is, in addition to consumption, exports, investment. Please pay attention. only and exclusively for the energy sector: 30 billion invested in the energy sector, more than 1200 km of pipeline transmissions, built energy security, gas, electricity of the state and placing, building the foundation for the transformation of the mining sector. This is our work, and this is the challenge that stands before our successors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u45	Thank you very much. Wojciech Murdzek, club Law and Justice, is another Member who will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! When discussing the implementation of the state budget in certain selected areas, I would like to point out that in the section: Transport and the National Road Fund and the Railway Fund, this should be emphasized, the revenue was higher than the planned 29 million PLN, i.e. 16%. This was due to the above-planned revenues obtained by the Road Transport Inspection and the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. At the same time, the revenue realised was 12% higher than revenue in 2014. Expenditure, taking into account changes, was by PLN 287 million higher than provided for by the Budget Act. As far as the National Road Fund is concerned, it achieved revenue of PLN 11.4 billion, which was 83% the plan after the changes. The reason for this low implementation of the plan was primarily the failure to carry out the planned issue of bonds on the foreign market and the use of EIB and Nordic Investment Bank loans by 21% less. As regards expenditure from the National Road Fund, originally planned at the level of nearly PLN 18.6 billion, they were in the plan after changes limited to PLN 14.6 billion and implemented in an amount of 87% A revised plan. At this point in time, it should be stressed that, in the context of these insufficient effects achieved in 2015, the very important lack of funding needed to ensure the proper maintenance of national roads is highlighted. The need to maintain the current road network at a level that protects it against degradation and guarantees improved traffic safety was estimated at PLN 4.2 billion on a scale of only one year. In 2015, only 12% of the financial resources allocated for this purpose were satisfied. poor and unsatisfactory road renovation needs. In a bad and unsatisfactory technical condition, there were 40.6% roads managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. In the context of these thousands of kilometers, it should be emphasized that some things are easier to keep quiet if they are very uncomfortable and expose those that add even splendor. As far as the implementation of the multiannual railway investment programme is concerned, we heard about the plans, while the plan for 2015 was intended to allocate PLN 1850 million from the state budget and this did not work, 1023 million PLN was used and 693 km was realized from the implementation plan of 775 km of railway lines. The section on regional development should highlight the high dynamics of change, especially in terms of expenditure. Namely, they are planned for 2015 at the level of PLN 13 802 million. Of this amount, PLN 1655 million was allocated to the state budget and PLN 12 147 million was allocated to the European budget. After the changes the planned expenditure reached the value of PLN 19 776 million, i.e. increased by 43,28%. Implementation of expenditure during 2015 amounted to 98.42% the plan after the changes. The next part of the budget, Part 18: Construction, local planning and spatial planning and housing, indicates underestimation at the planning stage for the income side as the execution was 124.3% The plan. Expenditure was only realized in 91.8% and they were 12.5% lower than in 2014. Such low expenditure execution may be surprising, given that these are measures related to very important and sensitive areas of life, namely payments from the Fund Payment payments for interest rates on preferential loans, the family on its own, the implementation of the scheme, the residence for young people - we have heard comments that every money will come in handy there, and it turns out that not every money is used, as it is already - and for the Fund for Thermomodernisation and Renovation, as well as the refund of guarantee premiums and the premium for systematic savings. This also led to the non-use of the reserve under heading 81: Tasks in the housing area, including those carried out under funds managed by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. This reserve was planned to amount to PLN 130 million. The reserve has not been used and this part has not been completed. Implementation of the budget for 2015 in Part 26: Communications, in Part 71: Office for Railway Transport, implementation of the budget by the Central Centre for Geodesic and Cartographic Documentation, the Fund for the Management of Geodesic and Cartographic Resources, the Central Office for Geodesy and Cartography, the Polish Agency for Air Navigation, Transport Technical Supervision - implementation in these areas should be considered correct. Similarly, budget implementation in Part 83: Special reserves as well as in Part 85: Voivodeship budgets, in Sections 600: Transport and communications, 700: Housing and 710: Service activities deserve a positive assessment. Although there was such an incident - we have just heard one Member say - that more than 700 million have been transferred from the reserve to the implementation of housing topics, while out of these 700 more 100 have been changed in the meantime, for other purposes. But there are also these things: the Technology Credit Fund has not been used, it is already more in the area of the economy. Implementation at 0% is indeed highly inadequate. As regards the report of the Committee on Public Finance presented and very strongly that, as I would say, in an extensive form of commentary, I say on behalf of the club that we fully accept the committee's position on the adoption of this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Social policy of the last 8 years of the Civic Platform and PSL government is really two goals: as much as possible professional activation - because the work of own hands is not only a source of income, but above all a source of self-esteem and self-esteem - and supporting the family as the most important basic social cell. We included governments with 11.3% unemployment despite the economic boom, left 16 million working people behind, which is a record in the new history of Poland. This is the result of an individual approach, supporting all forms of employment of young people and 50+, but also taking care of the employment of long-term excluded from the labour market. I'll give you two values, data: 28,000. people with disabilities were employed in 2007 in the open labour market, today it is 121.5 thousand. employees. Lowest wage in 2007 - 936, in the current - 1850. The average wage from less than 2900 has increased to 4110, the welfare benefits - from 420 to 1300, the social assistance criteria - from 477 to 634, and the principle of gold for gold is a thoughtful way of activation: we will take so much of this benefit away from you if you exceed the income criterion. Parental leave - from 18 to 52 weeks, including every non-working mom and every farmer gets 1,000 to raise their child. 3-year mobile parental leave, which is included with contributions paid to the Social Security Office for retirement. The number of daycares increased from 373 to 2705. She's getting 400,000 out of preschool education today. children more than we found in 2007. Pre-schooling of children in the countryside increased from 23 and reached 70%. For additional hours in kindergartens only in 2015 we allocated PLN 1.5 billion so that the parents of kindergarteners would not pay more than PLN 1 for these hours. 1,800 thousand. students benefit from free textbooks and 2 million parents benefit from tax exemptions for children. Without comments, the Sejm welcomes the report on the government feeding programme. The Large Family Card is gaining more and more support and popularity. Solutions to family problems are found in both financial and legal tools in two laws: anti-violence in the family and supporting the family and foster care system. We haven't forgotten about the seniors. The University of the Third Century, the program "Senior - WIGOR" are just those slogan things. All of these solutions were developed in close cooperation with employers, local authorities and NGOs. We did not have social dialogue only with those who did not want it ostensibly. Anyone who says that 500+ is the first form of support for families in Poland says untrue. And if he says it out of ignorance or out of bad will, then both recommendations are the worst for the rulers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u49	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the outset, it would be good to say that we were supposed to be dealing with the 2015 budget, its implementation, and not 10 years back. [[You have to tell your friend. But there were successes.]] I'm moving on to that last speech we made. I would like to focus on the three main departments, i.e. administration and home affairs, the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers and in the departments of the statutory committee. First case, settlement. As far as the majority of these individual budget headings are concerned, it must be said that the whole is looking, it is being implemented correctly with regard to the study by the Supreme Audit Chamber. We also admitted this during the committee's work, and I will not repeat it. On the other hand, I will draw attention to some irregularities, some things that have happened, which are also a warning for the future. The first is the long-term settlement of grants in the NAP. This was due to numerous errors which the beneficiaries made during the performance of the subsidised tasks. Furthermore, the Supreme Audit Chamber pointed out that it was appropriate for the NPRM to make greater use of the possibility of monitoring the implementation of these subsidised tasks during their course. The second case, which is related to this, is this story of a rather scandalous lack of control over telecommunications services, which resulted in two political advisors being able to call from these calls for 150 thousand. zł. However, as this amount represented 0,1% total expenditure, in its entirety, it is also difficult in Part 16 to say that this raises more concerns. A little bigger problems, a little worse is when it comes to the government's security office. Here the Supreme Audit Chamber points out that without system solutions the BOR may have some kind of problems. Already today, the estimated amount due to BOR officers for the lack of housing has reached almost twice the annual budget of this unit at the end of 2005. Every year, too, in recent years, this amount of the BOR budget was, as it turned out, underestimated. There was a need for funding from the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Home Affairs. The minor shortcomings were indicated in section 17 on which he supervised and controlled the implementation of the budget, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, but these were irregularities in the Central Bureau of Geodesy and Cartography. Sums, respectively 1400 PLN and 8200 PLN, were rather minor, although they contributed to the reduction of the partial assessment from 5 to 4 on the scale of the Supreme Audit Chamber. I would also like to say two last sentences on the Ministry of National Defence and the departments under the Ministry. Here, there were reservations about the low effectiveness of the recovery of budgetary debts in 2015. The reservations also concerned the granting by the Armed Inspectorate of 12 advances of 227 500 thousand, which in the opinion of the NIK constituted an infringement of Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (3). [[♪ The bell ♪]] The strong parties were certainly a relatively high level of implementation of the budget, with the exception of one contract, a good completion of resources and material stocks and an appropriate level of training security. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u51	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 2015 is another good year of Polish education. I'm afraid it's been a good last year. In fact, the years 2007 to 2015 are a time when education subsidies have increased from 28 billion to over 40. It was also a time of high increases for teachers, several billion zlotys, on average teachers' wages increased by 50%. It is also the time of the elements of family policy, i.e. kindergarten for a zloty - 1,5 billions a year. It's also the time to introduce free textbooks. The year 2015 is the first year in which free textbooks comprised almost 2 million students, this is another year in which 1600 million zlotys were allocated to ensure that parents did not have to pay for kindergarten, it is also the time of the program - Books of our dreams, or 20 million zlotys dedicated to primary school libraries so that they could complement their collections. So it's a very good year. The only thing that worries me is the situation for 2016, which is the situation that you have decided that children will learn to read in kindergarten, but no one has said a single word, which textbooks these children will use in these kindergartens and who will pay for these textbooks. Our concerns are also raised by changes in the subsidy weights - rather sudden, without consultation, taking measures away from those who conduct home schooling. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u53	Mr Marian Zembala, Civic Platform Club. This is another speech on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you for reminding many of you of this principle, so important also in the Seym: Do not give false testimony against your neighbor. Let this be a message not only for the proximity of the visit. Since I have little time, I would like to say that thank you all, including the Supreme Audit Chamber, for the substance and pragmatism of the assessment. I bow to your professionalism. But as a doctor, it's not politics that makes it a very good year. In health care it's the best year in 12 years on each side. Public health program - we are proud of everything, including the Anti-Tytonic Act. Attention, still e-cigarettes have no excise duty. Minister, remember that. That's an increase of 35 grand. annually only one POZ doctor, these are paid overperformances, this shortening of queues in orthopedics, ophthalmology, is finally a decent academic infrastructure in Gdańsk, Warsaw, Białystok, Cracow, Lublin, Wrocław, it is a strong solution of nurses' cases, 4 times 400 - it would be much worse - it is teleconsultation of cardiology and geriatrics, for which Europe praises us, it is the care coordinated over a pregnant woman, it is a trauma center for children, it is an increase of 20% of emergency medicine. Or everything? No. We did not benefit from something that occurred so strongly on the occasion of the strike at the Children's Health Center - 132 million PLN, Minister Majszczyk remembers well, in the NFZ are preserved at academic centers. I encourage you to run it over division by any means necessary. Academic medicine, especially this year, when all our hospitals are 15, 12 million less, will be a problem. I encourage you to work beyond divisions. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, science. If I were to define a problem today, I would turn from the perspective of the 2015 budget: science in Poland, if we want to have a modern country, requires growth, whether we like it or not - poorer neighbors did it - by an additional PLN 2 billion per year. There's no other choice. And I believe that the programme of both Prime Minister Morawiecki and Prime Minister Gowin, but we all have to serve this goal beyond divisions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u55	Thank you very much. And at the end of this group of speeches, Mr Janusz Cichoń, also the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u56	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't really have much time. Last sentence in the debate. Economic growth - to this I would like to address - in Poland accumulated in recent years, during the times of the Civic Platform and PSL, reached over 25%, while the European Union was almost standing still. Last year 3,6, 1,8, if I remember correctly, double the economic growth. If we tried to determine how much time it would take to chase the European Union - such an account at one time we carried out at the Ministry of Finance - with such parameters, it would turn out to be 14, 15 years. Yeah, I guess that's what the PiS is up to today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But if we looked back a little bit and recalled this growth rate in Europe and Poland in the years 2005-2007, it would take us 57 years. I hope that this will not happen and that you will, however, take into account our achievements in this area. Last but not least, as if showing the situation in which Poland is in today's situation, after the end of the Civil Platform government, a few rankings: Doing Business, World Bank - 25th place in 2015 and in 2007 75th place, 50 places moved in this ranking; index of economic freedom - 86th place in 2007, 42. in 2015, 44 places, such promotion we scored; index of perception of corruption - 61st place...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u57	Mr President, please move slowly towards the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u58	... 35th place in 2015, promotion by 26 positions, global competitiveness index - 43rd place, promotion by 8 positions at that time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u59	Thank you very much. 17 people were included in the list of Members who were included in the question. Would any of your fellow Members like to join this list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. We're starting with a member of the Civic Platform Club. Mr Paweł Arndt. One minute to ask a question. [[Not enough, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u60	Not much, not much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u61	If you don't fit in, those few seconds won't make a difference. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u62	Yes. Your Marshal, count off those seconds. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The 2015 budget was implemented under good conditions, particularly internal conditions. Maybe those external conditions weren't so good anymore. I am referring here to the crisis in Ukraine, problems with immigrants, slowing down economic growth in China, but all this did not affect the implementation of the budget in Poland. And lucky for you. The budget was implemented under good conditions and was well implemented, and therefore perhaps not so much interest in this problem today. My question concerns a completely different matter. I would like to ask if in the near future the government envisages a change in the way the National Fund for Revalorisation of Krakow's Monuments is to be financed. We've been talking about this for a long time. Recently also the Supreme Audit Chamber [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what raised the problem. And the second thing, also related to monuments. I would like to ask: will expenditure on monuments increase in the coming years due to the implementation of the 2015 budget? Because there's definitely a need. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u63	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! I have two questions for the government. The first one is in the case of living for young people. That's no use. One of the previous Members spoke of this. Today we have the following situation. In 2015, at the end of the year, the launch of the secondary market and some non-use, but a great deal of interest. This year there is a great interest and lack of resources from the program of living for young people. We wanted to increase support for 2016 and another by PLN 800 million. You said no. So when will the funds be mobilised when the next programme for housing for young people is planned? The second issue is subsidies to local governments and the law on the income of local government units, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The state, like the previous government, is said to have a law for only one year. Where are those words of criticism? [[♪ The bell ♪]] previous government and why will the Podkarpackie Voivodeship lose 100 million PLN? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, Last year's assessment should be a positive assessment of the last year's efforts, as well as the previous 8 years - the construction of motorways. Today is a historic day, because the last section of the motorway from Rzeszów to Jarosław was dedicated, linking the east of Poland with the west of Poland. [[Applause]] It's a really big day. Today you can already take the motorway across Poland. It's a huge effort for many years. Some say we're four years late, but we're finally on the highway. Finally, a big event. [[From Warsaw to Rzeszow.]] Yeah, well, we're all happy that the PiS is hooking up to this decision right now, [[Applause]] But that's the fate of government change. I, on the other hand, have a question for the Minister. In the last year there has been a significant drop in unemployment, less than 10%. [[Because they're gone.]] Much more funding for active forms of unemployment from the Labour Fund [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was intended for this case. How much more expenditure on active forms of unemployment has increased in the last year? How much did the Labour Fund increase? Thank you very much. [[Five billion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My first question is to reduce the involvement of non-residents in national debt. We are seeing a reduction in the involvement of foreign investors in the entire debt of the State Treasury. It is primarily about investment funds. How does Poland want to limit the involvement of foreign investors in the public debt of the Polish Treasury? Here's another thing. The Ministry of Finance transfers funds from the state budget through loans to the Social Insurance Fund to fund ZUS and OFE, thus de facto increasing debt. Is the Demographic Reserve Fund... Does the Demographic Reserve Fund still exist? What's the future of the FUS? And the third, last case. I think I'll make it. The State Treasury's guarantees and guarantees are carried out from the State budget. My question concerns the question of the risk analysis of the State Treasury's payments related to the granting of guarantees or guarantees. For what amount does the Polish Treasury perform obligations of debtors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u69	Thank you very much, sir. Another Member who asks the question will be Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! After these words from Members of the Civic Platform, one would like to say: If it is so good, then why is it so bad? But the question isn't about it. Both the budget implementation report and the audit material carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber showed that in 2015 the ratio of tax revenues to GDP was reduced to 18.3% at 18.6% in 2014 and 21.5% in 2008. This is not due to a change in the tax policy of the State during this period, i.e. but rather indicates the theoretical functioning of the project during the period 2008-2015. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore have a question for the Minister of Finance: Have tax revenues increased, including the ratio of GDP for the last months of this year due to the measures already taken to seal the tax system, especially VAT?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u72	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Supreme Audit Chamber presented an analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy assumptions for 2015. I have known for a long time that the leak in the VAT collection system is huge, and the state really loses billions of zlotys. My questions are: What is the size, for how many billion zlotys, in 2014, as the Supreme Audit Chamber has determined, of fictitious VAT invoices? How many billion have we lost in 2015? What was the government doing at the time to counter this widespread deception of the state in this area? What was the effectiveness in 2015 of the relevant services in the collection of claims for irregularities detected in fictitious VAT invoices? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Paul, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2014, the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, which considered itself a model for economic and financial predictability, prepared assumptions regarding the impact of VAT funds in 2015. Unfortunately, to the detriment of citizens, and to the benefit of criminals and thieves who, without obstacles and even in the majesty of the law, have reduced the State's income by extorting VAT, the final financial result was far worse than the forecast. Hence my question: What was the originally assumed income from VAT for 2015, and what was the actual revenue from this tax? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u76	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Ministers, According to the work of the Committee on Public Finance, the implementation of the State budget in 2015 in part: European budget revenue amounted to around 64 billion, which represents 83% the amount planned. The implementation of revenue depends on the level of expenditure implemented, which is particularly affected by the pace of implementation of individual projects and programmes. Delays in this respect hamper the economic development of the country. We have a very weak performance of European funds in the heading: Financial perspective 2014.2020. The implementation here is only 31%. NIK showed a number at the meeting of the finance committee [[♪ The bell ♪]] weaknesses in the implementation of the State budget in 2015 in part: Revenue from the budget of European funds. Dear Minister, why do you think that the revenue of the European budget has been so low? Who's to blame for this? What measures does the government intend to take in the future in order to achieve its objectives by using rational European means? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u77	Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz will ask another question, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My questions are addressed to President Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. First question: What are the main reasons for the impressive increase in VAT arrears in the assessment of the NIK? Second question: Has NIK identified the main causes of the growing Social Insurance Fund deficit? Has NIK investigated the link between the excellent development of junk jobs and the decreasing revenue of FUS contributions? What can and how can be explained 5 billion savings in the Labour Fund achieved by the Ministry of Labour in 2015 with a high unemployment rate of 13 , and high economic emigration? And finally, how the NIK evaluates funding [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the Labour Fund of internships of medical graduates? According to the objectives of the Labour Fund, it should be financed against the effects of unemployment, but it is difficult to fall into the category of unemployed young doctors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u79	The next question will be asked by Ms Genowef Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u80	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Looking for funds for the construction or reconstruction of local roads, i.e. district and municipal, so much needed investments in local Poland, we introduced the so-called. Forest fee. It amounted to PLN 800 million for the first 2 years and was to be collected at 2% from the tree sold. The forest fee met with great criticism on the part of the Law and Justice. It was really desperate criticism. So my question is, what is the government going to do with this forest charge? Last year, in 2015, 800 million appeared and indeed these funds were involved in the construction of this infrastructure. And what is the government going to do about it now? In that case, will the local road programme be implemented [[♪ The bell ♪]] And with what means? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u82	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the Minister of National Defence, the Ministry of National Defence. Last year, in 2015, the Ministry of National Defence decided to purchase 50 multi-purpose helicopters for the Polish army. As we know, the helicopter H225M Caracal produced Airbus Helicopters, and the estimated value of the contract is over PLN 13.3 billion. That, I must say, is a significant amount. From the beginning of this decision, the rulers of today, representatives of Law and Justice, which could be regarded as, let's say, natural, because also a significant amount, more than 13 billion, as I said, but also a period - an election year. But in these protests, in these opinions, that this money could power the helicopter factories that already operate in Poland, the employees of the two helicopter factories, i.e. In Mielec and Świdnik. I am a Member of the Lublin Voivodeship [[♪ The bell ♪]] and attended many meetings in Świdnik. The employees, but also the owner, are still full of faith in these announcements. Therefore, the question is: When is the decision? When do we settle this contract? This is an important question for economic, defence and, of course, budgetary reasons. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u83	Thank you very much. And Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I wanted to ask you a question about a flexible credit line, which - launched for Poland by the International Monetary Fund - amounts to about EUR 17 billion after double reductions, as we have heard today. I wanted to ask, Minister, what is the cost? leaving us at our disposal - not using - a flexible credit line in 2015 and now. How much has this cost us so far, and is the Ministry of Finance considering asking for a further reduction of this amount? We have such a situation that the International Monetary Fund is ready to lend us a loan and we pay for this readiness. At the same time Poland provides loans, more than EUR 3 billion for the International Monetary Fund, and also pays an increasing membership fee [[♪ The bell ♪]] for this fund, including in billions of euros. I would therefore like to ask, what business is it for us, how much we lose, and how much we use, that is, what are the real opportunities and real benefits for Poland with this financial cooperation. Mrs. Marshal! A brief question about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. According to NIK's audit, expenditure in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for assistance to Polish and Polish youth, as well as for repatriates, was made in only 60%. What results from such negligence in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and will this situation change this year? What measures have been taken to increase supervision of the implementation of expenditures...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u85	Member, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u86	...in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which according to NIK's inspection raises serious concerns? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u87	You've abused my patience exceptionally. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, please, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! In the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2015, we read that he participated in the opinion of nine Polish legal acts and 58 legal acts of the European Union and its Member States. I have a question for you, President of the National Bank of Poland: What is the big difference in these figures and what does it show? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u89	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The grant for the Social Insurance Fund from the state budget in 2015 amounted to PLN 42 billion. This turned out to be too little, and the Minister of Finance, in order to ensure the liquidity of the ZUS, provided the company with an additional loan of 8.6 billion. The total amount of the Social Insurance Institution's liabilities for loans received amounted to 45.3 billion at the end of last year. In the absence of a recovery perspective, the funds lent to the Social Security Office should be included in the expenditure and not only in the expenditure of the State budget and thus increase the budget deficit. Why didn't it happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, another question, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There are scandalous irregularities detected during the work on the NIK audit at the Institute for Environmental Protection. According to the report by NIK, the director of this facility concluded 41 contracts with the Institute for over PLN 3 million for drawing up opinions and assessments on the environmental impact of fertilisers and other substances. As the author of the requested opinions, the Director concluded contracts with himself in principle, only with the participation of the intermediary, i.e. the authorised representatives. It turned out that the institute was not controlled by NIK for many years, which is an unacceptable and requiring change. Therefore, my question is: What is the government going to do about this fact? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u93	Another question - Mrs Anna Elżbieta Sobecka, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u94	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the President of the National Bank of Poland. Does the National Bank of Poland take into account any form of mitigation of monetary policy following the LTRO programme in this year or in 2017? And to the Minister of Finance: What was the overall cost of maintaining a flexible credit line so far? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u95	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! I wanted to return to the report on the guarantees and guarantees given by certain legal persons and - because since 2015 the Treasury companies in which the Treasury has a majority stake have no obligation to report guarantees and guarantees, and before that they had - to ask, so that we have a full relationship, whether in the last year the guarantees provided by companies such as PGE, PGNiG, ENERGY, ENEA have increased significantly. Is it the fact that this obligation has disappeared that some of the inconvenient guarantees or guarantees are being moved to the Treasury companies so that we do not see it in the official report and that we do not realise the existence of possible inconvenient guarantees or guarantees? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u97	Thank you very much. With this question, we have exhausted the list of people who are written to ask questions. Although I did not hear any questions to the President of the National Bank of Poland, but the President said that he would read the questions and if any of them concerned the sphere of action of the National Bank of Poland, he would answer in writing. Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, please take the floor. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! Dear Members, I will answer the questions that have been addressed to the Supreme Board of Control. Mrs Iwona Michalek asked about the size of the fictional invoices in 2014 and the effectiveness of the recovery of these claims by the tax authorities. The irregularities detected in the VAT invoices, of course, I am talking about irregularities detected by the State's tax services, were the following. I will give you three figures in a moment: firstly, the amount of fictional invoices detected by the tax services, secondly, their value, and thirdly, the tax applied in the context of the fictitious invoices detected. The data I will present to you is data for 3 years in a row, i.e. for 2013, 2014 and 2015. In 2013, 155,000 were detected. fictitious invoices, their total value amounted to PLN 19.7 billion, while the tax applied to these fictitious invoices by the tax authorities amounts to a total of PLN 2.3 billion PLN. A year later, the number of fictional invoices increases from 155 thousand. up to 207 thousand, of course I am talking about invoices detected, their value is already 33.7 billion PLN, while the tax applied is 5.2 billion PLN. In 2015, the number of invoices detected is already 360 thousand, i.e. in 3 years we have an increase of 155 thousand. up to 360 thousand, the value of these fictional invoices amounts to 81.9 billion PLN, while the tax applied is 12 billion PLN. Of course, we must remember one thing - the tax is measured, attributed to these fictional invoices, and its actual collection is a value of about 2%. We must remember this, because these billions do not exist in the sense of actual execution, the value of the collected debts is, of course, significantly less. What is the effectiveness - that was also the question asked by Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, about the effectiveness of the tax services. It can be said that this effectiveness is increasing, because, of course, the amount of false invoices detected are also data showing in a special way the effect of the tax services' work. Of course, sometimes this work of the tax services is linked to the work of other authorities of the State, e.g. Special Services, especially where organized criminal groups are involved, are involved in extortion of VAT - this is probably an area where this organised crime is increasingly present. What are the main reasons for the increase in arrears, the professor asked. We're diagnosing it in the following arrangement. If we see an increasing number of fictional invoices, I would be unfair to the tax services if I defined it differently than in this way that it also means increased efficiency of the tax services, which detect more and more fictional invoices. What's it related to? This is how we diagnose it, and this is what we have information from the state institutions, outside the tax services that deal with this area, that here, because of the lucrativeness, the profitability of this crime is increasingly organized and growing, there is an increasing number of organized criminal groups that are involved in VAT fraud. That, of course, is another cause. These groups are also increasingly specialised and increasingly benefit from cross-border transactions, which are a tool that makes it even more effective to extort VAT and hinders enforcement. What we obviously have a problem with is, as I said, the execution of debts that result from the detected fictional invoices. As regards the question concerning the financing of post-graduate traineeships from the Labour Fund. This is a very interesting question, because when this solution was introduced - this solution was introduced in 2009, I will remind you - this was a period of financial crisis and the justification for the introduction of this solution was of course a difficult financial and budgetary situation. This solution was originally intended to be a temporary solution, unfortunately it has become a permanent practice and it is implemented on the basis of a around budget law. We have no doubt as the Supreme Audit Chamber, looking from the point of view of the transparency of public finances, that the financing of post-graduate traineeships should be carried out in part 46, i.e. health-related. There's probably no doubt about that. As to the assessment of the impact of garbage contracts on the Social Insurance Fund, unfortunately, we have not examined this issue. Perhaps we should consider whether or not we should look into it. We are exploring various aspects of reducing the impact on the FUS. We were driving, for example. control regarding outsourcing agreements, we show the adverse effects of these phenomena. We have specifically audited the government administration, also in the context of the use of the so-called. junkyards for hiring people by public administration. Not only have we described these phenomena, but we have also pointed out solutions, we have shown what to do to eliminate this situation. With regard to the reasons for the deterioration of the Social Insurance Fund deficit, the professor herself rightly referred to these reasons. Of course, it is all these contracts and forms of employment that allowed for circumvention or reduction of payments to the Social Insurance Fund. This is generally influenced by the demographic situation, the number of people who, while working age, are outside the borders of Poland - I am talking about our citizens - and there they are doing and testifying to work. Moreover, this element was also present in the speech of the Kukiz Club representative, i.e. the issue of the demographic situation and its impact on the labour market. This is undoubtedly an issue that we will be looking at. Another very interesting issue. We will present to you Members, ladies and gentlemen another very interesting information in the near future about the impact of foreign workers on the Polish market and how many foreigners have come to Poland and how many are actually doing work here and what part of them pay, and in fact how much of them do not pay any contributions to the Polish Social Insurance Fund. Most importantly, we will also show you where this system is leaking and what needs to be done to make this system leaky. This is another element, because if there are no Polish citizens or Polish citizens on certain conditions, read: uncompetitive, they do not want to take certain forms of employment, then there are foreigners in this place, many of whom are outside the official social security system. Of course, for natural reasons, this causes further losses in the budget of the FUS. Besides, I declare that we are thinking about how to take a closer look at the FUS budget. A very interesting question is the professor's question about the financing of medical traineeships from the Labour Fund, but it must be said that there is no problem at all with the money not used under the special funds. We have talked about this, and the Member has also asked it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one conclusion from this: either the statutory tasks assigned to these funds are not fulfilled, or the contribution paid by the entrepreneurs is too high. Hence - pay attention - in my speech, which concerned the analysis of the entire implementation of the state budget, I have devoted a very large part to this. I believe that this requires a very precise analysis and a decision should be made. Either we really finance these tasks and do not hold this money - I am not now judging for what reasons I am not tempted for any analysis - or we are conducting a discussion and we are wondering if it is possible to reduce this contribution, which, of course, from the point of view of employees, employers will be a positive decision. I feel like I've answered the most important questions. If I missed an answer, I'm very sorry, of course we can supplement it. I think I've missed a question from the Member, so I'll stay... [[No, no.]] No? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u99	Thank you very much. We agree to the answers that government representatives will give us. Mr Jarosław Sellin will be the first Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. You're welcome, Minister, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage has been asked by Paweł Arndt about the stability of funds intended for the revalorization of Krakow's monuments, those funds which have traditionally been transferred within the National Revalorisation Fund for Krakow for twenty years. These measures are available to the Social Committee for the Renovation of Krakow Monuments, and they are traditionally allocated to the budget of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland. I want to declare - and we have already talked about it - that it has become a recognised and effective tradition that this money is being passed on by the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, and we do not want to change it, we want it to stay that way, because it has good results. Kraków - the city of pearl in our country - which is going to live its great days in the near future, is beautiful thanks to this fund for twenty years, and we see it with our own eyes when we visit this city. For example, last year, which we are talking about, on various scales of course, revalorization works, the means went to 146 objects, including such important objects as: the Royal Castle on Wawel, the Town Hall Tower on the Main Square, Collegium Maius, the Jagiellonian Library, the Church of St. Peter and St. Paweł, architect of Wawel, monasteries such as Dominicans or Cistercians in Mogile, Basilica Mariacka, the site of the former German concentration camp Plaszów and the Rakowicki Cemetery. This budget is 30 million a year, it used to be a bit bigger. I think that, regardless of the fact that sometimes there is a discussion about whether this fund should not be included in the general fund for revalorisation of monuments in Poland, it is a good tradition - and it should be maintained - that Kraków, a special city in Poland, has such a special fund. The second question raised by Mr Paul Arndt concerned an increase in the resources for monuments in other budget lines available to the Minister for Culture and National Heritage. Indeed, we believe that in recent years little money has been spent every year on monuments, about 80 million PLN per country. We want to increase it gradually. I think that this year we will be able to achieve an expenditure scale of up to 100 million. It's still not a drop in the sea of needs, but a bucket in the sea of needs, because needs are. The applications that come to us amount to about 800 million PLN per year, so that this 100 million is still not enough. Of course, not all proposals are suitable for implementation, not all proposals are justified, not all are well prepared, but certainly the needs are much, much larger than the money that has been in the Minister's operational programme so far, so we will gradually increase it. I would also like to point out, in answer to this question, that the first recruitment has already begun and that the first recruitment of new EU funds for monuments in the new budgetary perspective is actually already under way. By the end of March there were applications, now several proposals are accepted by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, and among these dozens of proposals are for example. three serious proposals concerning monuments such as the Pelplina Cathedral, Jasna Góra or the Dominican Church in Lublin. We have this ceiling set by the European Commission in spending up to EUR 5 million on these proposals. It must not be exceeded, but 5 million euro is well over 20 million zlotys, so almost each of these proposals amounts exactly to such a sum. This is a serious injection, serious reinforcement. And in the second call, which we have announced, we will have PLN 500 million to spend, of which 200 million for monuments. So that this new EU perspective, the prospect of European funds will help us to catch up on the revalorisation of monuments. I will also add that next year, in 2017, it will also be possible to reach for new Norwegian funds, also for monuments, i.e. EUR 80.90 million, and a large part of these funds, I think, as we know the traditions of applications that are directed to these funds, will be to a large extent the power of monuments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, will speak on behalf of the Government. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Skowrońska's question about the "Living for young people" programme requires a little longer response, because it is not a question Only the lack of increased funds for this programme this year, but also the issue of false information which is disseminated by Members of the Civic Platform and the opposition, that the Government of Law and Justice, the government of Mrs. Beata Szydło, is shutting down the programme It's just not true. The government doesn't shut down any program. The government is implementing this programme according to how it was adopted by the previous coalition. This programme was adopted by 2018 and this is how we implement it. Just like it was founded. However, as a result of such actions, it is said that this programme is being extinguished, it is precisely that young people who want to receive housing, the funding from this programme, start to submit these applications more quickly. This system works exactly the same as before, the assumptions are implemented, while the number of applications is higher in the first half of the year than in the second. First of all, this is because people are afraid that this program will be extinguished. On the other hand, it is the result of those assumptions that were adopted by the previous government, that they increase from year to year their own share. In order to avoid this higher share, marriages or lonely people who want to receive funding, they make these proposals faster, but contrary to the opinion that there are so many willing, we are only 5% we do not comply with the requests submitted. Some of the applications submitted do not meet the requirements, some simply do not catch on to these limits, right? These people are applying for the following year. This year the call for 2017 has ended, but from January 2017 more than 300 million will be available. For next year it is over 746 million, for 2018 it is 762 million and these funds will be implemented in accordance with the assumptions and the draft budget. But what in return? The entire national housing program is also part of the replacement of this program. Why do we not want to continue to increase expenditure or implement this programme? This is due to an analysis of the implementation of this programme. Almost 60% applications for funding are carried out by lonely persons. Mrs. Beata Szydło's government wants first of all to prefer marriages, and it's marriages of many children. We want to prefer these people in our program. Of course, lonely people also need support, but the programme aims to support those already wealthy enough to be able to obtain credit and funding for this loan. We want to change our philosophy here, and we want to support above all those who cannot afford credit, who are unable to borrow, which we can support. So I repeat once again that the Government of Law and Justice is not shutting out the program of living for young people. It will be implemented as it has been so far, with all these assumptions, and from 2018 we will start a new savings programme for housing expenditure and the first subsidies for this saving we will start in 2019. The programme is ending, living for young people. We would like similar funds to those that have so far been spent in the budget to be used to finance systematic savings, which will also be a way of helping all people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u103	Thank you very much. Ms Hanna Majszczyk, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, will speak as the last representative of the government. You're welcome, Minister, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In answer to your questions, which have not yet been answered, I may start with a question that has crossed over several times in the speeches, both in the presentation of the position on the report on the implementation of the state budget and in the questions of individual Members. This concerns the questions of Mr Sitarski, Mr Meysztowicz, as well as the statements of Mrs Hennig-Kloski, who pointed out that the loan, as far as the FUS is concerned, was de facto leading to a deficit of about PLN 8 billion and, if added, a 3% deficit in the public finance sector would also be exceeded. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that in 2015 this additional loan to the Social Insurance Fund to fulfil the State's obligations to pensioners, i.e. the State's guarantees regarding the payment of these benefits, was transferred in the amount of PLN 5.5 billion rather than PLN 8 billion. In any event, regardless of its size, it did not translate into additional State debt in any way because, regardless of whether it would have to be issued in order to transfer subsidies to the FSO, or whether it would have to issue papers and obtain funds for the granting of the loan, the same expenditure from the Social Insurance Fund was covered in any case. And all expenditure from the Social Insurance Fund was taken into account when counting the public finance sector and absolutely did not exceed these 3%. As we know, this deficit has reached 2.6%. The questions raised by your Members are also the question of why this loan was given. According to the Social Insurance Fund Act itself, the sources of funding for this fund have several options. This is both a grant and a loan as a full mechanism for balancing the Social Insurance Fund. Of course, at this moment, when we have different rules, already resulting from the Public Finance Act, the counting of public expenditure, where we have a stabilising expenditure rule, this division into a loan and deficit is already losing out on as important as it was 2 and 3 years ago. Of course, as you will notice on the basis of concrete data, statistics on the amount of these loans, they gradually fall every year. The natural consequence will be here - we hope that as early as possible, perhaps next year - the departure from this loan system, although the possibility of lending from the state budget itself in the budget itself, because there are provisions on this subject, should remain, because it gives some flexibility. If, as a result of a situation that could not be foreseen at the planning stage, the calculation in the Social Insurance Fund plan, or other circumstances which would result, for example, in the planning phase. more pensioners or pensioners that are not foreseen at the planning stage... Such an optional loan mechanism should always exist in order to ensure that the State's obligation towards pensioners and pensioners to provide these payments can be fulfilled. Today, however, as I said, the fact that it is a loan does not translate in any way into debt or the outcome of the public finance sector, and it was in line with the Public Finance Act itself. Mrs Skowrońska asked about the draft law on the income of local self-government units - this project has already been addressed to the High House - in which it extends the functioning of the corrective and equalisation mechanism which is still in force in 2016 - a new correction and equalisation mechanism which is addressed exclusively to voivodships. Is the Podkarpackie Voivodeship - that was the question of the Member - going to lose 100 million PLN on this movement? As in 2015, and in 2016 the solutions adopted by the government last week in the law amending the law on the income of local government units will in no case result in any voivodship, including the Podkarpackie voivodship, losing any resources. These solutions are designed, planned and included in this project, on which the High Chamber will work, in such a way that the sum of funds transferred to voivodships despite the change of the system would be the same as if the system had been in force in 2014, i.e. before the time when the Constitutional Tribunal questioned the solutions at that time on application and the complaint lodged by the Mazowieckie voivodship at that time. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that certainly the Podkarpackie region will not lose any resources on this solution - of course I am talking about the denomination - compared to those that would have been obtained under the old system. Mr Kasprzak asked about the fall in unemployment and linked this question to the increase in expenditure on active forms of combating unemployment in 2015. How much did the expenses increase? In the 2015 Labour Fund plan, expenditure on active forms of combating unemployment was to increase by PLN 582 million with the end. I'm rounding up these amounts here so they can have some better reception. Of course, this was the plan, but if we take into account the implementation of these active forms of combating unemployment, this increase in funds spent in relation to 2014 amounted to PLN 244 million. Of course, the fact that the amount is less than the plan is due to the possibility of distribution, demand, compliance by the addressees of the laws which can benefit from these measures, but certainly no longer from the limitation of this plan, but to the various natural phenomena which caused the potential beneficiaries of these measures not to reach or meet the conditions for obtaining them. Mr Sitarski, in addition to the questions concerning the Social Insurance Fund, which I have already answered, also asked how the government intends to reduce the share of foreign debt. The course of action to reduce this foreign debt is set out in the debt management strategy, and this strategy results in a successful reduction in this share of foreign debt, which will mainly involve a higher issuance of securities on the domestic market and, of course, a lower debt issuance in foreign currencies. Mrs Szymańska asked whether the effects of increased tax revenues are already visible in connection with the measures taken to seal the tax system. Of course, it is difficult here to assign specific influences to specific actions, because the sum of these influences is taken into account. In six months' time, as has already been said by Minister Shamacha in recent days, there has been a clear increase in income, including tax revenue. Of course, it is difficult to talk about all the revenues here, because we know that in 2016 there were also one-off revenues associated with the sale of frequencies. Of course, I'm leaving it on the side. But the same tax revenue also increased year by year for the same periods for each practically a few percent, so this increase in this income is noticeable. Mr Paul asked what was the initial revenue of the 2015 budget on goods and services tax and what was done. I understand that in his question he asked about the planned receipts, even before the amendment, because as for the receipts that have already been recorded in the Budget Act in the amendment, the implementation of the budget indicates that they have been implemented and are almost PLN 2 billion, PLN 1800 million higher than those resulting from this amendment. But I think that he was talking about those VAT receipts proposed in the original 2015 budget law, which were planned to amount to PLN 144 billion with the end achieved, implemented at the amount of PLN 123 billion. Of course, the reasons for the lower revenues were widely discussed in the work on the revision of the state budget, but also in the report on the implementation of the budget. This thread is developed, and these explanations also refer to the issue of non-fulfilment of these influences assumed in this originally planned law. Of course, there are many factors, including. also a shift over time of certain revenue related to arrangements to facilitate the settlement of taxpayers and a number of other changes that have had a detailed impact on the revenue achieved, including the lack of implementation of revenue and losses on income from goods and services tax. Mr Gosiewski asked why so little revenue was made in terms of European funds, which is why someone is guilty of such a small or too small performance of these revenues. This issue was raised during a discussion at one of the meetings of the Committee on Public Finances. The reason for not achieving these revenues, as was also explained at the committee's meeting, is due to delays in the approval of individual programmes. In order to achieve this revenue, it is necessary to mobilise expenditure and implement these programmes, as these revenue only affects when the individual expenditure and implementation of these projects are cleared with the European Commission. Of course, the fact that there was a delay in the start-up of these programmes naturally means that these funds, these revenues, will shift to other periods. He asked what actions were being taken to speed up the implementation of these programmes and thus to implement the revenue of the European budget. In this respect, I would like to inform you that, at the request of the Minister for Development, the Council of Ministers adopted in December 2015 a corrective programme for cohesion policy funds and in the current year the Action Plan to increase the efficiency and speed up the implementation of operational programmes under the Partnership Agreement 2014-2020. These programmes set up teams to speed up the implementation of these programmes and thus to implement the revenue of the European budget. As regards the question of the forest toll, as was called in Mrs Tokarska's question, and whether expenditure on local road programmes will be implemented, of course this fee is maintained this year and these are legal provisions. Of course, these revenues affect the state budget. According to the project, which is scheduled for several years, the programme for the construction of local roads, next year these expenditures on local roads will be higher by PLN 200 million compared to this year, because according to the programme it is expected that these expenses will be at the level of PLN 1 billion, and in 2016, according to the Act, they are at the level of PLN 800 million. Mrs Masłowska asked about the flexible line of credit, which is the burden on the state budget for maintaining this flexible line of credit and, as a rule, what are the benefits and the balance sheet for the State in relation to the maintenance of this flexible line of credit, the charge for the so-called. Stand by. Of course, this flexible credit line has been lowered, and therefore also the burden of the state budget due to the maintenance of this flexible credit line, this readiness, is changing and decreasing. It is now about 18 billion dollars. These charges, which are related to the maintenance of this limited flexible credit line, are about PLN 188 million in the state budget. What are the benefits? The benefits are linked to maintaining the security and sustainability of public finances, with the possibility for us to maintain this flexible credit line, to fund the state's finances, whether in terms of securing loan needs and not being able to obtain these funds otherwise in the event of various economic or geopolitical turmoil, or in accordance with the principles and opportunities offered by the programme of this flexible credit line, with the possibility to cover and support balance of payments. So the possibilities are different and the balance of these benefits that you have been asking about is precisely that this simply gives us security in terms of maintaining the sustainability of public finances and the security of public finances. [[I asked if we were getting interest on the loans we're giving to the International Monetary Fund...]] I will answer this question in writing, I do not have that information today. Of course, we will give this reply to the Member. Mr Wójcikowski also asked about the loans or guarantees provided by the Treasury companies, noting that such information is not included in the report on guarantees and guarantees. I would just like to point out that we do not have such information, because, some time ago, the obligation to submit such a report in respect of companies of the Treasury was abolished in the context of the re-bureaucratisation of the responsibilities of the various economic operators. But let me just remind you that even when it was in force and such information was in possession, it was certainly, if we go back for these few years, the size of these guarantees and guarantees was really very small, minimal in relation to those granted from the State Treasury, guarantees and guarantees provided by the State Treasury. And these guarantees and guarantees provided by the State Treasury companies were related to the economic interests which these companies had, and they resulted from, certainly were not related to the transfer of any guarantee from the State Treasury to those companies. Also, the fact that these are companies, i.e. those entities to which the Commercial Companies Code also applies, and all activities must be related to some reasonableness and be actions in favour of the company, not to its detriment, so it is difficult to say that such actions could be undertaken here. As I pointed out at the outset, we do not have any information today about the size of the guarantees provided by the State Treasury companies, but we also have no reason to believe that this volume will change in some significant way. Thank you very much. If any questions are omitted, we will answer them in writing. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u105	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on discharge in the voting block. The Committee on Public Finances proposes that the Sejm should take note of the Guarantees and Guarantees given by the State Treasury in 2015, some legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. If I do not hear the opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the motion of the committee. I can't hear you objecting. I state that the Sejm took note of the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2015. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act (Prints Nos 669 and 738). I ask Mr Jerzy Bielecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. The changes proposed by the government are the fulfilment of the next point exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, including the issue of tax reduction for small taxpayers and newly created companies of commercial law. The project provides for a reduction in corporate income tax rate from 19% to 15% for taxable persons whose annual sales income does not exceed 1200 000. Euros. The draft also proposes amendments to the rules aimed at clarifying the solutions already in place in both amended laws to eliminate interpretation doubts which may result in tax avoidance of certain income. On 19 July 2016, the Public Finance Commission examined the above draft law. In the course of the debate, the greatest discussion was triggered by provisions which prevent the preferential tax rate from being used by traders, for example. they will divide the company only to benefit from a reduced CIT rate. No substantive amendments were tabled at the committee meeting. The project was fully accepted by the committee. It was clear that all Members of our committee wanted to improve the fate of Polish entrepreneurs. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I would like to ask the High Sejm to approve the bill presented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u107	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Szewczak will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome. Your envoy isn't here. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform by Mr Janusz Silchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have a project that basically boils down to sealing the tax system, and that's the basic content of it. It is a project which takes into account the caselaw of the Supreme Administrative Court, also the caselaw of the National Tax Information Office and finally implements the Council Directive of 2009 on the common system of taxation applicable in the case of mergers, divisions, divisions by separation, transfer of assets and exchanges of shares concerning the so-called. European companies which Poland is obliged to introduce into the tax system. This is a number of provisions that this tax system is supposed to seal, and the adoption of these solutions is intended to bring budgetary benefits in excess of PLN 270 million per year. That means he's gonna take that much money from entrepreneurs every year. In my opinion, this will not translate into such income income in terms of the State's income from corporate income tax, but it is certainly the solutions needed, because they will eliminate interpretation problems when issuing interpretations to the National Tax Information Office and administrative courts, so that the solutions that entrepreneurs have used so far will probably cease to be used. This is one side of the coin, i.e. we seal the tax system, but on the other hand we have a reduction in the corporate tax rate for small taxpayers and start-ups, i.e. taxpayers whose sales value does not exceed 1,200 thousand. Euros. And this is a solution that certainly deserves support and support, but also, in my opinion, it raises some concerns, because it will complicate the tax system quite seriously - this is another rate. It can also be used to circumvent legislation, i.e. to generate economic offences and promote tax optimisation. I can also say that the security offered by the Ministry of Finance, provided for in the article. 7 amendments, in my opinion, are not sufficient and will not block the formation, buying of dormant companies, eliminating and creating new, new ones - and not just the division, which is well described here, and there is a security in place so that this does not happen. Therefore, we have a formula in which, on the one hand, we seal, and on the other, we generate an environment for abuse, which raises our serious concerns, but also a tax reduction, even if it concerns a small group and these benefits are actually symbolic - as in this case, because the calculation which is easy to carry out, shows that it will be PLN 670 per company per year, a fifty pair of zlotys per month. It may have been better to put aside and introduce a systemic tax change for economic operators with a reduced tax rate and the tax allocation on which the Ministry is working, a uniform progressive tax for those who obtain income from work or other sources, but do not carry out economic activity. We maintain our opinion, and despite the shortcomings we see, we will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u109	Thank you very much. Is Mr Jan Szewczak here yet? You're welcome, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Jan Szewczak, Mr Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u110	High Izbo! Dear Marshal, We're dealing with this tax again. After all, this is a relatively small change, we are aware of it. She's not gonna solve our economic problems, our tax revenues. We said this clearly a few hours ago in this Chamber, considering the report on the implementation of the budget for last year. We see the scale of these tax losses. They're so pretty, they're called "thinnings," it's like it's a diet. Right? And this is about very serious consequences, because these tens of billions of zlotys are less within these tax revenues, even from CIT. There are different estimates. Professor Witold Modzelewski says that these are estimates of 30 billion less, but there are estimates, there are amounts under CIT provided by the European Union or reputable institutions related to the European Union, which indicate that this is 46 billion. So these are completely unimaginable amounts with this little change that we're talking about. You could say this: a soul would like to have a paradise. Undoubtedly so, and it would be necessary to think about solutions that would also apply to those who carry out business activities that are not strictly within commercial companies, right, and that would be a significant change. But today we have this situation, not another, that practically so far it was that the CIT tax was paid by the one who wanted to, or only by the one who had to, because he was such an entity on a candlestick, a company of the Treasury, a bank, etc. Right? That's the problem. I hope we can move on. These sealing issues that my previous speaker mentioned are very important. We are fully aware that it will not be a big boom for this kind of solutions, but we start somewhere. This is undoubtedly a gesture, a gesture of reach, although there are critics from the economic world who say that it is not a solution that will satisfy everyone or it will be universal, so to speak, desirable. Still, we're trying to do it. It seems to me that these announcements are probably about reform, some serious reform of the tax system, because we see what we have, what is happening in VAT influences, what is happening in excise, how difficult today is this fight for this public money, what is the scale of these tax optimizations applied today. Good law firms, consulting companies, reputable, world-class companies live out of it. He's a serious opponent for the state budget in raising. So let's hope that this may be a little symbolic, but we are pointing a clear direction to lower this system. But it's a little different. We who are closer to business certainly look at these issues differently, but in a different role is the Minister of Finance. He needs to think about this issue of the tightness of this budget, finding the right amount of money. It seems to me that today, unfortunately, we are not in such a comfortable situation that we will be able to afford significant reductions in the tax system. It's true. This VAT is high in Poland, these burdens are significant, excise duties. Unfortunately, there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the rules of the law to be resolved. It is a matter of making this provision by us Members within the Committee on Public Finance. Mr Cichoń spoke about this before me. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we have eight or nine meetings of the Committee on Public Finance within one day with a short break, short breaks, so to speak, for physiological purposes, we really cease to control this matter at certain moments. Of course, you have to think about the law that you create, you have to be vigilant, you have to find those gaps, because it can happen. This seems to be a good direction, and we will definitely follow in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Jakubiak will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the impression that we are dealing only with such a cosmetic change, that we are not really talking about how to seal the system, how to conduct these conversations in such a serious way that one surgical cut can heal and modernise the tax system in Poland. In fact, we are still playing innovation by reducing taxation for the little ones, leaving it for the big ones, which again gives some kind of manipulation, i.e. Chapter big into small, and then prove that it had a tax purpose, etc. And again, there will be hundreds of different criminal proceedings, from which, as usual, the entrepreneur is guilty. In the meantime, this system should simply be simplified. If you want to look at it as part of such tax optimization, of course, this one percentage tax I'm talking about is today the most modern model of getting out of our trouble, which is undoubtedly our too sophisticated life. Economic life is too complicated. And I'm gonna say even the accountants can't handle it anymore. This country... Unfortunately, there are not enough entrepreneurs in the Seym. Unfortunately, it is such that, often speaking of the problems of entrepreneurship in Poland, I see cloudy eyes in front of me, which do not know what I am talking about. And the fact that there are meetings, as you have just said, of the Committee on Public Finance five or seven times, this is precisely because these discussions about how to run a farm in the form of a Polish state, so that the wolf is full and the sheep all, lead to purely academic discussions. This must be cut by introducing one percentage tax, which is equal for all, which does not mean that it is complicated. Just because it's equal, it's simple and simple. I strongly encourage this, to such courage in economic proceedings. The economy will never grow unless we are brave. We must be innovative and courageous. And it doesn't matter to me whether someone in Europe already has one or not. We in Poland have it. Flat-rate taxes on individuals are just income taxes. Please note how this is done statistically. Statistically, there's the least control, there's the purpose of paying the tax, the least economic failure, people do the work, not the combination. And so I'm going to say that actually, considering that 15% They're going to pay small businesses, and we're still talking about CIT, not PIT. CIT is a corporate tax. And where's 1707,000. PIT taxpayers? There isn't. They'll continue to pay 19%. So I don't know what the legislator meant. Is that the CIT we have today is almost 400,000, because there are 393 thousand. CIT taxpayers, what really is the small number of these small entrepreneurs? What's going on? The question comes up, the question arises: It's why do it, since 1707 thousand. will small entities not be subject to tax reduction? Are we not dealing with some PR again, because the effectiveness of this action in the form of the introduction of this law will be really minimal? And we're looking at a reduction in revenue by 270 million. And the sealing of none, as it was not, is not so, because money is moved from Poland by means of a simple, clean invoice. We believe that such an invoice should be taxed in Poland, i.e., in other words, revenues should be taxed and costs should not. Therefore, even if this invoice is at the expense of the company, it is already taxed. And so it is necessary to fight against bringing out these billions, money from Poland, because this is a fact, tens of billions of PLN from Poland is being carried out, which is the best indicator of which is the rate of paying taxes. Polish companies pay an average of 0.9 on income, western - 0.7 . So here we have a clear example of how money is being spent while maintaining the same conditions for cooperation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u113	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch will now speak on behalf of the Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This bill after work in committee is not much different from the one already under discussion at first reading. In fact, I would like to draw attention to three aspects of this project. My predecessors have already talked about the first aspect. This change in the Act on corporate income tax and personal income tax is indeed a highly cosmetic change, because with the income of the state budget from corporate income tax of PLN 35 billion it is PLN 270 million, and the amount of financial resources to be paid by the entrepreneurs is less than 1%. So, in fact, it's a highly cosmetic change, not enough, and what's more, you give businesses 270 million with one hand, but with the other hand you reach into their pockets and take out more than 270 million. So this is really very illusory. In addition, you are introducing, this second aspect, this law also for the purpose of allegedly sealing tax law. And here, too, is the issue of optimization, which is a nightmare of the Polish government, as the Member said here. Indeed, the fight against optimization, as my previous speaker said, is not led by the creation of an increasingly complex legal system, an increasingly complex regulation, but on the contrary, by simplifying tax law. This is the only direction that should be taken. But I'm going back to presenting this project. We have added further tax circumvention clauses, special clauses which raised doubts at the committee meeting even members of the governing coalition, because there is no need to introduce such additional special clauses in tax laws, in income taxes, especially since EU directives are not applicable on the basis of income tax for the Polish State. Instead of referring in the relevant provision to the application of general clauses, the State introduces very complex rules that hinder business activities and also introduce a different understanding of tax avoidance. So it's not that direction. And the third aspect. The Prime Minister talked all the time, during the exposé, but also later, about a reduction in corporate income tax for small businesses, not small taxpayers. A small taxpayer as defined is an entity whose annual turnover does not exceed 1200 000. The euro, while the small entrepreneur under the Freedom of Business Act, is an entity whose turnover does not exceed EUR 10 million. Therefore, when we go out as a modern club in response to the Prime Minister's demands, we propose an amendment extending the range of taxpayers at a rate of 15% - taking into account instead of a small taxpayer small trader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u115	Thank you. Thank you very much. Ms Genowef Tokarska will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project we are debating was evaluated by the Public Finance Commission yesterday, i.e. July 19th. As it has been said, he is no different from the government's submission. Several changes were made only with such editorial character. I'm reminding you of the design. Thus, the Act reduces CIT tax rates from 19% to 15% for certain taxpayers, i.e. for small taxpayers and those who start an economic activity. In view of this objective, the economic activation of a specific group of taxpayers, although only small and starting, is the right direction to strengthen economic development. And I have no doubt about that. This is the right direction. Besides, the direction announced several times by the Prime Minister, the reduction of the tax rate according to the calculation submitted by the government, will reduce tax revenues by PLN 270 million and their coverage will be from the sealing of the tax system, at least that is what the projectors, or the government, call it. My predecessors have already said that this is supposed to be a seal, because the draft law amends the tax legislation on business, so the catalogue of income or revenue, which is considered to be income, revenues achieved in the territory of the Republic of Poland, is supplemented. Three significant items are added to this catalogue: from securities and derivatives of financial instruments, I will no longer develop the subject, these are those admitted to public trading in Poland, for transfer of ownership of shares or shares in a company, titles of participation in an investment fund, as well as for regulated claims. The proposal proposes amendments that clarify certain provisions, and the predecessors have already said that there may be some doubts about whether they should be found, for example because of the general principle of tax avoidance. However, I would like to point out, and this is probably the most sad and puzzling, why none of the organisations interested in the project expressed a positive opinion about this project, and many institutions took the floor: the Union of Crafts of Poland, the Foundation for Small and Medium Enterprises, the Business Centre Club, the National Trade Union Agreement and unfortunately everyone is negative about this project, as it was said, unless it is the transfer from one pocket to the other of entrepreneurs' money. The Joint Government and Local Government Commission even stresses its negative impact on businesses and the economy, as well as the imposition of additional administrative burdens. The Confederation of Leviatan, Employers of the Republic of Poland and the Business Centre Club stress that the proposed regulations are anti-developmental in nature, limiting the freedom of investment, reducing the level of legal security of entrepreneurs in the field of tax law, and thus adverse opinions. The costs of the reduction, as I said, will be borne by the entrepreneurs themselves, and only that the rulers of this information no longer add to the impressive announcement of lowering the rates. It's so manipulative, I'd say, informative. The Club of the Polish People's Party will express its position on this project in a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. We are currently proceeding with the regulation of reducing CIT tax on corporates for small companies from 19 to 15%. This change will undoubtedly benefit the development and competitiveness of these players in the market. In the current legal situation, both large companies, with undoubtedly wider access to finance their development and investment, and small enterprises, meeting the criteria of a small taxpayer, which have limited access, are equally subject to tax. The reduction of CIT for small business activities carried out by corporate income tax taxpayers and for the newly created activities during the first year of their activities, despite the negative impact on the state budget, will ultimately be a step in the right direction towards accelerating the growth of entrepreneurship in Poland, which should offset the lost individual influence. The provisions introduced in the procedinated amendment limit the possibility of benefiting from a reduced CIT tax rate for taxable persons starting their business as a result of the restructuring of the company. The preferential 15% corporate income tax rate is only obtained by such taxpayers, starting in the third year of the tax. Such a solution will only counteract restructuring in order to benefit from reduced CIT. The remaining regulations introduced by the Act are intended to seal the tax system. Precise changes to the current rules will eliminate the doubts that arise when they are interpreted, which translate into tax avoidance of certain income. In addition, by restricting the application of certain tax preferences, transactions aimed only at obtaining tax benefits and amending the rules used by taxpayers in the optimisation schemes will not only increase revenue to the state budget but at the same time affect the level playing field of entrepreneurs on the market. Thanks to the tax rules, as indicated by the Ministry of Finance, the reduction of CIT for small taxpayers will not affect the level of revenue to the state budget. The bill is therefore neutral in this area. Now we are waiting for a proposal for a law to increase the tax-free amount. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of further proceedings of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u119	Thank you very much. Four Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question will be asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. [[There isn't.]] There is no Member. Mrs Iwona Michalek from the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two very short questions for the Minister of Finance. I would like to know how the CIT receipts have evolved in the last 4 years and how the CIT receipts have been implemented this year. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u121	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Jerzy Gosiewiski from the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u122	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The government's bill to amend the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act is the implementation of another electoral promise. The platform has been talking, talking and talking about tax reduction for many years, and unfortunately it has ended with this talk. From the solution proposed by Law and Justice reducing corporate income tax for small companies up to 15% Polish entrepreneurs will benefit mostly. The Government of Law and Justice thus supports the development of small businesses. Minister, what percentage of all companies in Poland are small companies that will receive tangible support through the proposed solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, is now asking the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have practical questions about government proposals. Do the projectors propose another tax on shares in shares of the listed company, bonds, etc.? Is this a tax levied on the value of assets held by a natural person or firm in an investment account or has a member, the owner of the company? It is the addition of point 5 and 7 in Article. 3 Act on personal income tax. Today, the profit from the sale of securities listed on the Stock Exchange and the potential dividend of the shareholder, the shareholder are taxed at a rate of 19%. And additional questions. How will the tax be fixed in the case of mergers of commercial companies? What if the shares of a listed company were merged in order to increase the nominal value while reducing the total number of shares according to a specific exchange ratio? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u125	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please, Mr. Undersecretary of State at Leszek Skiba's Ministry of Finance. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. Right away, at the beginning of my attempt to correct the words that came during the debate. Firstly, Mr Pampuch... Here's two things I'd like to correct. First of all, it's not like we're introducing a specific clause by this law, because that clause was already in place. It's currently in force, and it's actually prescribed. Secondly, what is important is that it is introduced by a directive and it is an obligation to include this specific clause in the case of restructuring. This is indeed due to the fact that this provision of the detailed clause is implemented through the introduction into Polish legislation of the Tax Directive applicable in the case of restructuring. Certain provisions are being introduced on a certain preference, which were implemented many years ago - the 2009 Directive - and the special tax regime for restructuring - and the application of a specific clause which makes it not used as a tax gap. We want as part of the fact that in practice we have seen some application and such incomplete, you can say, implementation, with some holes... That is why we are taking this opportunity to clarify these matters. As far as Mrs Tokarska is concerned, I have the impression that the wording that entrepreneurs themselves will pay for tax reduction is a little bit to increase because we have to pay attention to what is in this law. In this law there is above all a tax reduction for small companies. Here I answer Mr Gosievski's question immediately. These companies are 390 thousand, for the total number of 420 thousand. entities which are taxpayers of CIT, i.e. 390 000. These are those who will pay less tax and the remaining 30,000. These are those for which the tax will remain at the current level, 19%. Actually, it's 390,000. this is more than 90% of all CITs, i.e. the tax reduction affects more than 90% companies, of course companies paying tax in the form of CIT. Indeed, this document, this legal act, and especially the OSR, shows that tax revenue reduced by tax reductions is offset by the fact that tax revenue from those who have tried to use different tax optimization methods will be increased. These methods in this legal act proposed by us are at least five groups. It is therefore difficult to justify that they are the same entrepreneurs. The aim of this project is to reduce taxation for small businesses by implementing the intention and announced plans of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, but on the other hand, it is intended to ensure that taxes are actually paid by those large companies that have specialised consulting companies, legal firms, which try to pay as little taxes as possible, using all legal gaps. And with this legal act, we're trying to seal the legal system. I have the impression that this is completely justified so that this plan is actually implemented. At the same time, I answer Mr Sitarski's question, what is it like with this share fetch? In fact, this is the element of the sealing work. We are talking about a certain detail of the provisions that aim to ensure that non-residents, i.e. persons who have non-Polish citizenship, who benefit from certain activities in the financial market in Poland, actually start paying taxes on income that they achieve in Poland. And in that sense, This is one of the elements that shows how much this project is needed. It is simply that those who earn money in Poland must pay tax on income. In fact, it is not what you said it was a new tax imposed on individuals in Poland. This element concerns non-residents who so far avoided taxation, made money on the Polish capital market and in fact, using legal gaps, they simply did not pay tax in Poland. About the question... It's all in general. Full agreement that what is the goal, what is most important, is that entrepreneurs pay less taxes in Poland. And you could say... I understand the need of the High House to simply lower taxes in Poland. This is actually incredibly important. It's a little bit like this bill is a stage in the whole process. This is the first stage to reduce tax for small companies within the CIT framework, but we have in the background really a tax change, which will most likely start in 2018 under the so-called. a uniform tax on which work is carried out in the Ministry of Finance in KPRM. Minister Kowalczyk spoke about this. There is a project to ensure that this single tribute, this uniform tax, is set up to reduce the taxation of labour income for the least earners, while at the same time changing the way of taxation of business, so that the non-tax part actually, because unrelated to such direct competences of the Minister of Finance, i.e. social security contributions, is not too difficult for start-ups or developing companies to ensure that entrepreneurship in Poland is not restricted. For this reason, it can be said that this is the first step: a uniform tax, a facilitation for business. An overview of the rates related to tax contributions to the Social Security Office in the case of economic activities, it can be said that this is the second stage that is planned in the future. Actually, it's a work in progress. In fact, it will only start functioning from 2018, mainly due to IT problems related to the fact that this is a big project consisting of the fact that a single contribution will most likely be charged simply by one entity. And the final findings. The issue of Mrs Michalek's question about CIT receipts in the last 4 years and this year. Unfortunately, I do not have this information on me, and I therefore propose a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u127	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to speak? [[No.]] No. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws (prints Nos 711 and 736). I ask Mr Grzegorz Raczak to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Health Commission regarding the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws contained in print No 711. The problem I will be discussing is the investment in health care. So far, investments in our country have often been insufficiently thought out. This was often more due to the ambitions of individual decision-makers than to actual regional needs. This led to situations such as the creation of two hospitals in one place, close to each other, which competed with each other, using only part of their capabilities. Knowing that this is bad, is common and exists in our country, there is a need for change in this area. In addition, the European Commission, which has, as we know, 12 billion zlotys dedicated to health protection, has set the conditions. For this money to be used, the priorities that Minister Łanda presented at the committee meeting must be met. The Commission, when allocating EU funds, is guided by priorities such as transparency, rationality. In order to obtain funds, she demanded - which was initially questioned - health maps and priorities of regional health policy. These documents are created... because they're not all created yet. However, it has been challenged that the epidemiological, demographic, infrastructure-related data collected there do not translate into specific investment decisions. Such a tool to enable such decisions to be taken is the instrument for assessing investment proposals in the health sector - the name in short is IOWISZ. A system of relevant questions was created under the auspices of the Minister and was created by a team of experts. This project entered the Sejm on 12 July and was addressed to the Health Commission the following day. The Health Committee held its first reading and discussion. During the discussion, the present representatives of the Ministry answered all doubts and questions in a comprehensive manner. There were many questions, for example. why it's being processed so quickly. Here the explanation was that now different competitions are stopped, which can just be started only... i.e. On 1 July, competitions have already been launched, but in order to be able to make evaluations, there must be tools, such as sets of questions and surveys. Another question was the marshals - why there are no marshals in the decision-making circles. The answer was that the marshals are the founding bodies of hospitals and could be biased here. The doubts were detailed, the Minister can certainly bring them closer in a more extensive way, and they have been explained. The amendments tabled and voted on were legislative, possibly editorial. They were accepted. As far as the vote is concerned, the committee has given a positive opinion on the appropriateness of further proceedings with no votes against - there have been votes in favour and abstentions - and therefore asks for a positive opinion on this draft law during the further procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u129	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present a position on the draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, print No 711. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed law responds to the needs indicated not only by the Ministry of Health or indicated in the dialogue with the European Commission, but also to the identification of the Supreme Audit Chamber concerning the purchase and use of medical equipment co-financed by regional operational programmes. The NIK audit showed that more than 30% of the hospitals audited did not achieve the planned results, in particular the expected number of benefits, while implementing the assumptions adopted at the level of 3 to 90%. In the NIK's assessment, the degree of use of the apparatus had an impact on decision making without prior analysis of the needs in the area concerned and assessing the availability of benefits. The lack of coordination of investment-related activities has also contributed to a low level of performance indicators. Even though it's art. 6 The Law of 27 August 2004 on public-funded healthcare provision required local authorities to carry out a reliable analysis of health needs, specifying the number and type of those benefits which should be provided in order to preserve, restore or improve the health of residents, many of these local authorities Unfortunately, this obligation was not fulfilled, on the contrary - decisions were taken on the construction or expansion of hospitals, on the purchase of multi-million-dollar apparatus separately from any rationality. There have been numerous indications that there is no link between the putting into service of the investment and the contract with the National Health Fund. The simultaneous ban on the provision of paid benefits increased the non-use of the funds involved. Such a policy has led to absurd situations, when in a given region, e.g. Several dozens of thousands of residents were formed by a number of one-name branches, which were de facto empty. According to NIK's audit, the current legal situation does not guarantee a rational investment policy in health care. In the current state of law, there is no indication of the public authority responsible for coordinating the activities of all actors involved in the application process, inter alia. for funds from the European Union. The Law and Justice Club welcomes the draft law and expresses its thanks to the Ministry's staff for the rapid and efficient preparation of the IOWISZ IT tool for the objective assessment of investment proposals in health care, hoping that the European Union's health funds will be used rationally and contribute to improving the quality and availability of the benefits provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u131	Thank you very much. The Civic Platform will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club by Mrs Beat Małecka-Libera. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting on behalf of the Civic Platform Club the position on print number 711, i.e. a draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The direction of the changes adopted in the amendment that we are to assess here today is absolutely the direction that we have already taken for the previous government. This is the direction of management in health care based on planning. We're totally signing off on this. We believe that only in this way will we spend money rationally and also get the right result. The basis of this project was, of course, health maps, which have already entered into force in part and the remaining ones are to be completed in the near future. But unfortunately, this project, this amendment, is only part of a broad project, which is primarily intended to contract properly, but also to invest correctly, as we are talking about here, in this project. It was made clear that the Act aims primarily at using EU funds, 12 billion which remain in the budget of the Ministry of Health, for investment, but also for any investment that will be implemented in regional programmes. This is of course extremely important, because we know that some investments have unfortunately been missed, and the use of equipment has also left much to be desired. However, this is, as I said, only part of the whole project, and although we agree that this type of action should be clarified and started, we were expecting a much broader project that contained the whole strategy and the whole policy to be implemented in the regions based on health needs maps. Therefore, with all due respect and approval of the direction, we see a few threats in this project, among others. that there is no comprehensive programme, no comprehensive vision and no strategy. Then it has a quite strong role here, in this project, the National Health Fund, and in the announcements of the Ministry is the liquidation of this institution. We therefore believe that this is a bad time and a bad location for this type of expectation. Then we also do not like the speed of entry into force of the law. Please note that the Act enters the day after the announcement in the Official Journal. The pace of this is that there is a concern that the Voivodeships on which the most important obligation to make decisions on the proposals is to be made... We're worried that they'll be prepared enough. And even though the prepared project assumes mostly an IT form here, the decision will be in the hands of the voivode. Therefore, this decision, which will not only concern the implementation of a given investment, but will also affect the entire regional policy, is extremely important. We also see the very extensive bureaucracy introduced by this law. A number of provisions in our feelings should be included in regulations, which is much easier to change, especially since we know that the Ministry of Health is planning a number of organisational changes in the near future. Therefore, given all these comments, in agreement with the direction, we see a number of threats and, above all, we are concerned that the voivode will be able to deal with this crowd of conclusions that will come to him in the near future. Therefore, the Platform's position will be neutral and we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. And at the same time, I welcome the students and teachers from the school in Augustów. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and certain other laws. The above-mentioned law is intended to ensure transparency in the process of issuing opinions by the voivodships and the Minister for Health on the purpose of medical investment. These opinions need to respond in real terms to existing health needs. Therefore, they are to be issued by voivodships taking into account maps of health needs, regional health policy priorities and data from the register of healthcare providers. In July 2015, it was announced by the then government, and required by the European Commission, a document called policy paper. It points out that having a positive opinion of the voivode or the Minister for Health will have an impact on the assessment of the provider's offer. The lack of a positive opinion will result in fewer points being awarded. By all means, an entity not having a positive opinion will have to present a much better offer than the offers of those who have received a positive opinion from the voivodship. This will ensure that the new system does not block market access for new entrants and, on the other hand, will ensure reasonable investment in areas where there is a balance between demand and supply for medical services. The Minister of Health will be able to define criteria for selecting offers that will ensure the right choice of the best providers. In a word, after the proposed provisions have entered into force, a positive opinion on the purpose of the investment will be influenced by the provider to conclude an agreement with the National Health Fund. In the case of own funds investments, the opinion obtained will also provide an important indication of the appropriateness of the measures taken. It is hoped that this will prevent the irrational development of the medical services market. Positive opinions are to be issued only if actual resource shortages can be identified on the basis of health needs maps. With the introduction of the law, it is expected that there will be fewer unthinkable and unthinkable investments for the health system. The introduced system will allow real use of health maps and priorities for regional health policy. As a result, it will enable the sustainable development of the health system and counter the waste of resources. In view of the above, the Poselski Kukiz Club15 will support the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński will now speak on behalf of the Poselski Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present our position regarding the 711 print project. The 2013 Supreme Audit Chamber audit on the purchase and use of co-finalised medical equipment from regional operational programmes revealed several significant irregularities, including those related to the purchase and use of co-finalised medical equipment. with reckless planning of healthcare provision by hospitals, including reckless investments in equipment. The conclusions set out in the audit document are, of course, correct. It should be agreed that in many cases the newly bought equipment stands unused and the benefits offered by the hospital are not fully implemented. A reliable analysis of health needs that determines the number and type of health benefits is the basis, but the recipes for solving this problem proposed in the project raise my doubts. The only solution to ensure that these expenditures are rationalised is to give the health minister and the voivodships greater competence to make decisions on the purpose of investment. At the same time, it is ensured that this decision will be based on the information provided in the proposal by the entity or regional map or national map. However, the map will have an unprecedented impact by the Minister of Health himself, as you stress in the justification of the project. What is the point of such regulation? How can you be sure that the Minister of Health, who will first modify the maps himself, will do so fairly enough that the decision on the purpose of the investment, based on such maps again by the Minister or the voivode, will ensure the rationalisation of the expenditure made by the applicants? Despite the assurance that this decision will be issued cascades, you propose that the Director of the competent branch of the NFZ, which, of course, will not be binding for the voivodeship or the Minister. In our view, the only solution to remedy the functioning of the healthcare system is its comprehensive reform. The proposed amendment aims in the right direction, unfortunately, at the lack of systemic, coherent and permanent healing of Polish health care instruments. The project presented by the government will lead to full centralisation in the course of its implementation and will cause decision-making chaos in the short term, which will impact directly on patients. Modernly, the key to the basis for the effective functioning of health care is the valuation of benefits, which should be based on economic and market factors. Ladies and gentlemen, given the fact that it is difficult to predict the real effects of the proposed amendments, the Modern Club has decided to abstain in this particular case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u138	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Today we are at the next stage of the process of amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and some other laws - the title of this act is this. I would like to point out that we are dealing with two aspects in the content - the aspect of a rational, practically needed, well-divisible region or country of investment in health care institutions, we are talking about hospitals, and on the other hand we are talking about financing the medical procedures that are being implemented, so far and next year, by the National Health Fund. We are also talking about the integration of government administration, the voivodeship to adopt and decide to mobilise funding where it is supported, financed by public funds, and especially with the support of EU funding. Then there's an extra link. I think that the very assumption that very rationally and carefully invest the funds that are to serve the communities in the near future is good, only if it is good to learn from the experience that we have from the last programming period, 2007 and 2013 and even earlier, at this stage, today, mid-2016, when we can already talk about a certain delay in the implementation of the 2014-2020 programme, because we know that funds from regional operational programmes or programmes implemented at central level that can be invested in the field of health care are not launched, because we do not have a decision of the Steering Committee... At this point, we have to get a positive opinion from the voivode. In the provisions of the Act, we have listed the various stages, the conditions which the beneficiary or entity must fulfil in order to obtain such an opinion. This results in a certain passage of time. We can therefore ask how the introduction at this stage, in 2016, of this decision will affect the delay in investment. In addition, we can ask ourselves: Which decision will be more important? Is the voivode's opinion or the decision of the steering committee? I think that all this needs to be clarified, and I am convinced that at the next stage of work in the committee we will be able to explain these little nuances. Small, in quotes, because in my opinion they are these are very important, important elements of the whole investment preparation process, which we know is how long it is. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is no doubt that the amount of funds for investment in health care is significant. Speaking of investments in health care, I mean not only construction investments, but also accessories. The amount of 12 billion is high. I also think that we need to bear in mind that in 2018 we will also be judged halfway through the investment or development of these funds. So let us make sure that investment can start as soon as possible at this stage. First of all, we need maps of health needs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think the Minister would like to dedicate two sentences to this issue later in his speech. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u139	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The Act of 22 July 2014 amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws introduced an obligation for voivodships to give an opinion on the appropriateness of investments in the health sector. The aim of the procedated regulations is to provide voivodships with a tool to effectively comply with the provisions of this law. The need to increase transparency and rationalise investment in the health sector has been highlighted both in the dialogue with the European Commission and in the NIK report on the purchase and use of medical equipment co-financed by regional operational programmes. In order to minimise the risk of poor spending, the proposers of this amendment propose the introduction of an Investment Proposal Assessment Instrument in the Health Sector. The use of this instrument, taking into account maps of health needs, priorities for regional health policy and data from the Register of Healthcare Operators, will contribute to constructive spending and increase the number of investments resulting from the actual needs of the regions. The first reading of the draft law in the Health Commission raised the question whether, in the light of the information on the intention to liquidate the National Health Fund, taking into account the role given to it in this project, this would certainly be a good time to make such changes. I don't think doing nothing in this area is a better idea. It is necessary to act quickly so as not to prolong the current state and to achieve the results we are aiming for as soon as possible. However, I agree with the opinion that the project under examination has too much legal detail and that it is perhaps worth considering transferring certain technical issues to the Minister for Health Regulations. Such a solution would facilitate the introduction of subsequent changes resulting from the evaluation of the operation of this tool to date. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u141	Thank you very much. Five Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. She is the first to ask the question of Mrs Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u142	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In the previous financial perspective 2007, health care facilities had the opportunity to support improvements in technical condition or the purchase of apparatus. These investments were often inspired by the ambitions of local politicians and did not take into account the genuine needs of these institutions. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: Will this bill fully safeguard the rationality, purpose and transparency of the use of EU funds and will it have a positive impact on the work and functioning of health care institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u143	Now the question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law creates clear rules for the issuing of opinions on the appropriateness of health investment and through its implementation of the creation of appropriate resources for the provision of health services. A very important element of this is that positive opinions will be the basis for applying for EU investment funding. Given their size, it is, after all, 12 billion PLN over the coming years, the rationality of spending them is very important, as stressed by Minister Łanda in the Health Commission, pointing out that bad investment could sometimes cause more damage than good. My question is similar to that of our predecessor and concerns what happened in our health care service until recently. Why, in this area of investment planning, often creating new entities from scratch, buying expensive, often costing millions of zlotys of equipment, which is behind in warehouses in packaging, have so many irrational decisions been made? Wasn't there mechanisms that would prevent many obvious pathologists? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u145	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u146	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have three short questions. Firstly, Minister, I would like to know when we will learn not only a comprehensive investment plan, but all of the strategies for health policy in the regions at all. The second question concerns this project directly. Namely, I would like to ask, because from the opinion, from the conclusions to be assessed by the voivods, trauma centres and SORs are exempted, or other procedures that save lives, which are carried out, for example. in some mono-specialist units, they will also be excluded from applying for such a permit. The third issue concerns investments that are already under way, which are at different stages. Some are only at the stage of design or start of construction, and some are on completion. What about these investments in the light of this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u147	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! A positive opinion on the purpose of investment will be of strategic importance. It will be a formal condition for European funding under all operational programmes. Secondly, it will be part of the offer of the applicant for funding benefits from the National Health Fund. No reviews, lower bid score. However, the risks posed by this project need to be highlighted. The restrictions introduced will have a negative impact on the competitiveness of healthcare providers, the quality of the services provided - there is, after all, a great deal to be done in this regard - as well as on the availability of services. However, a very short, seven-day time for comments on the project could not provide a broad public consultation and evaluation on this issue. This is to the detriment of this project. Why is the speed of consultation so fast and the lack of vacathio legis at all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u149	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Most hospitals are run by local government units. You are introducing this law another entity, this time the voivode, because you have no influence on local government units. I also have a question for the Minister, because a very important element in health care is the maps of health needs. When will these maps of health needs appear? Today, the distribution of the competition from regional operational programmes depends on these maps of health needs. And another question. Aren't you concerned that introducing the voivodeship into this decision-making process, as well as the slimness of funds and posts at that office, will not significantly prolong the procedures for obtaining EU funds under operational programmes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u151	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Krzysztof Łanda will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u152	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go to the specific questions, I would like to provide an overview of the work on this law and on the tool of IOWISZ, the Investment Proposal Assessment Instrument in the Health Service. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have adopted a draft map of health needs, in which there are actually 12 billion zlotys of EU funds, a large part of which is devoted to investment in infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, the main problem that this instrument, this law, is the fact that the first maps of health needs that have been published - and I answer the Member's question - were published last December. These were maps of cardiology and oncology. On the other hand, maps on closed care, hospitalization, were published on 30 April. Of course, there was a risk that the European Commission would not take these maps away from us. These documents, maps of health needs, as you know, include information on epidemiology, demography, infrastructure and human resources. These are very extensive documents. They contain 1000, 1200, up to 1500 pages per voivodship. According to legal requirements, further ranges of maps for specialized care and primary health care will need to be created by the end of December this year. The good news is that we have succeeded, and the European Commission has received from us these maps that have been published. They've been picked up. Therefore, it can be said that the project started several years ago is implemented in a timely and effective manner. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, was there a risk that the European Commission might not have received the maps and that the project could have been subject, say, to doubt whether it could have been subject to any criticism? Of course, this risk was, ladies and gentlemen, mainly because maps of health needs, these extensive collections of various types of data do not directly translate into investment plans, into investment decisions. Also, ladies and gentlemen, legally required and developed on 30 June so-called. the priorities of regional health policy, i.e. nothing more than strategic plans for regional change, within different areas, also, please countries, do not translate directly into investment plans, into decisions on the implementation of individual infrastructure investments. This was a serious problem, ladies and gentlemen, because the European Commission requires us first of all to improve the transparency of the spending of funds. Secondly, so that we can improve the reasonableness of the funds spent. I mean, not to build two hospitals side by side with the same profile that compete with each other for the same money from the National Health Fund. If the National Health Fund has, let's assume, 20 million PLN in a given area and so far it has been enough for the operation of one hospital and next to the establishment of a second hospital, and the NFZ will divide these funds into these two hospitals, they will both be in financial difficulties. It was also about not buying expensive diagnostic and therapeutic equipment, which is then unpacked, and we are already applying for further purchases. Ladies and gentlemen, it was necessary to meet the requirements of the European Commission, and the Minister for Health has therefore set up a team to translate the information contained in the health needs maps and in the priorities of regional health policy into investment decisions, as it was designed two years earlier. It was then that the duty of the voivods to issue opinions about the purpose of the voivodship came into force. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not change here those legal regulations and processes that have already been established and legally confirmed. Ladies and gentlemen, the essence was that the decisions about purpose were to be made. So we set up a team. When it comes to maps of health needs, we briefly call these people, these experts cartographers. Cartographers are few specialists who are in Poland, who are familiar with indicators. This is actually a very difficult play. In order to develop appropriate criteria, appropriate indicators, you need to have knowledge from several very different areas. Cartographers worked for many months, until the end of June practically, as a matter of urgency. Why this urgent procedure, there was a question here. Twice, that's a question. Well, ladies and gentlemen, according to the Act from 30 June, you can apply to the voivodships for opinions on the purpose of the investment. So these proposals are already being made. We had to develop an urgent tool, this tool, this IOWISZ, is actually a decision support tool. It does not replace the decision and the whole process, which ends with the opinion of the voivode of purpose, but strongly supports this decision. I mean, it makes the whole process more transparent and rational. For what reason? Therefore, I would ask you that the questions that are in this instrument, in IOWISZ, relate to a number of elements that the European Commission was concerned about. I mean, they obviously needed transparency, rationality, but also greater emphasis on long-term care, palliative care, environmental care, this closer to the patient. However, thanks to these criteria, we use these questions to fill in the whole process of processing applications for certain investments in order to meet the health policy objectives. But there are also questions which concern the inclusion of a given investment in the implementation of the Polish economy's development policy. There are criteria, you'll see, 31.33, which act very strongly and according to the proposed formula can help in the development of the Polish economy. As someone mentioned here, the resort takes the view that 12 billion PLN in this project maps of health needs is a lot of money. But that money can, of course, hurt us if they're wrongly spent. If they are well spent, they can of course help both the health service and the Polish economy. But badly spent can be a kiss of death for us. As far as the NFZ question is concerned, there is indeed a deep reform of the system currently being prepared, where the NFZ will also disappear as a payer. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill we refer to the state of play. Wherever the NFZ disappears and a new paying authority appears, there will automatically be all these changes. Therefore, it seems to me that this corresponds fully to your request. As I say, opinions about purposefulness, the fact that the voivode gives these opinions, was introduced by law two years ago. However, ladies and gentlemen, this law ensures this transparency and rationality not only because these criteria or these questions are well thought out and fit into the three elements I mentioned earlier. In addition, it is assumed that the voivode gives an opinion on the purpose of the investment, but first the applicant must complete the relevant score. Therefore, he can check whether he fits in with these objectives of health policy and development policy of the Polish economy. Then, of course, the National Health Fund, which has additional information, can also look at these answers and may comment on this. Then the voivode and her back room can change their previous opinions. Of course, this will always be done with justification. With regard to the answer to your next questions, of course, the opinion of the voivode is preliminary and some procedures then include, at the next stage, the decision of the steering committee, while some will be subject to the competition procedure. However, I would like to remind you that the opinion of the voivode, although preliminary, is a formal, statutory requirement introduced 2 years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, also the policy paper, which is currently not negotiable, provides for an opinion on the purpose of the investment. This change is also impossible at the moment, as is the fact that the financial resources of this project widely called maps of health needs are already allocated to particular regions or voivodships, and we cannot change that either. This is the state we found after the previous government. This money, it seems... it's impossible to renegotiate this division. This tool, on the other hand, is designed to divide funds that are already allocated to voivodship, within the voivodship, so that it is rational, transparent, fits into health policy and development policy and meets the requirements of the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, IOWISH is a de facto barrier to entry. It means that if an investment is irrational, then I WOULD JUST STOP such an investment, or it would have to be modified by the originator so that it would meet the goals I had previously discussed. However, IOWISH, ladies and gentlemen, has actually another, in my opinion, much more important function. In addition to the fact that we have prepared this tool in the form of such a tool for the regulation, a computer program is also prepared, it will be published on the website. There anyone who has an idea will be able to see what score this idea gets, whether it fits into those goals I mentioned earlier. Therefore, I think that very many people, very many actors, will also be able to develop such ideas to use these EU funds to help both the health service and the Polish economy. The next, ladies and gentlemen, specific questions, these first two questions from Members of the Law and Justice, namely whether they actually meet the requirements of transparency, the reasonableness of these investments. Ladies and gentlemen, this tool, as I say, does not replace the decision itself. It is a tool supporting decision-making, so that they are as transparent and rational as possible, but Summa summarum finally gives an opinion about purpose, and then there is a steering committee and competitions. However, with this tool, we will definitely be able to improve transparency and rationality. Has there been irrational behavior before? Yeah, that's what the NIK reports and a lot of other documents show. The question is when there will be plans for comprehensive changes to the health system, especially in the regions. Of course, the Voivodeships have prepared their priorities for regional health policy, they fit in, they are consumed by the tool IOWISZ, as well as the map information. Many questions must be answered on the basis of the information contained in the maps. On the other hand, if the investment does not fall within the priorities of regional health policy, the criterion is the strongest. If the investment does not fit into these regional priorities, it will not be complex at all. Of course, soon there will also be a plan for comprehensive changes in the financing of health care in Poland. I think the resort will keep you informed of this, in any case, intensive work is underway at the moment. Next, yes, indeed, trauma centers and SORs are released, because they are included in the voivodship plans, and these in turn are excluded from the maps according to the legal state already established by us. Could other highly specialised procedures be released? No, we don't anticipate that. All other investments, in accordance with the provisions and thresholds in this draft law, will apply. Are the investments started under IOWISZ? Yes, they are if someone wants to finish them using EU funds. If not, it can continue, but it seems to me that one way or another it is worth to face IOWISZ and enter a given investment, even if it is an investment in progress, because it will show what is the rationalness and systemic sense of this investment. I think it'll make sure even the investors themselves. However, I repeat once again: it is better not to use this money, the 12 billion, than to use it badly, so as to harm the Polish health service and the economy. Therefore, if the investment is made and it does not fit into IOWISH, I would suggest either a change [[Applause]] the nature of this investment, or even the cessation of it, because if it is to harm us, to harm the health service, it is better that it is not completed. That's the department's position. Come on, ladies and gentlemen. Why so fast paced, I already answered, when the maps, I already answered. Ladies and gentlemen, why the marshals, the last question, perhaps, have been eliminated from the preparation of an opinion on purpose. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a government decision. The Marshals have numerous medical entities for which they are the creators, and it is therefore clear that they could... that means that they have a conflict of interest and, therefore, there is a reasonable risk that they could direct these funds towards those medicinal units for which they are the creators, they could also discriminate against those entities for which they are not the creators. In the case of voivodships, however, it is probably only eight entities, and this risk does not occur here. Thank you very much, and I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u153	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur, Mr Grzegorz Raczak, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For many years I have been a consultant of the voivodship in the field of cardiology in the Pomeranian voivodship. After my mandate, I had to resign, but for many years I was such a consultant. As a consultant, I have consulted many ideas, investments in health care in our voivodship and I have watched powerlessly later how different types of activities appear, which were completely incompatible with this, because the opinion was not binding on anything. The governor, my superior as a consultant, explained to me that he has no legal means of stopping things. And there was just such a feeling of hopelessness. That is why this idea - the possibility of applying the scale that the Minister proposes - is really worthy of great attention. This is something that can improve, heal our system. I'm very happy for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u155	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Act on public collective transport (prints Nos 716 and 725). I ask Mr Jan Kilian to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For me it is a great honour to present to the High House a report by the Infrastructure Committee on the Senate draft law on amending the Public Collective Transport Act. On the basis of the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 7 July 2016 on the submission to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of a draft law amending the Act on collective transport pursuant to Article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997. The Senate introduces to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland a draft law amending the Act on public collective transport. This law is the Act of 16 December 2010 on public collective transport. The amendment is to postpone the deadline for implementing the above-mentioned regulation. Act of one year. Six-year vacatio legis of some of its provisions did not produce the expected results. Organizers of public collective transport, i.e. local government units and passenger transport operators raise doubts as to the feasibility of fulfilling the tasks imposed on local government units to organise public collective transport. In addition, the entry into force on 1 January 2017 of certain provisions will result in passengers losing access to reduced tickets due to the fact that only 261 local authorities have chosen 349 public transport operators by 30 June 2016 and 20 local authorities have chosen 21 public transport operators by rail, while the other local authorities have not complied with the new requirements of the public public transport organisation imposed by the Act of 16 December 2010 on public collective transport consisting of inter alia. the choice of the public transport operator. Commercial carriers who do not receive compensation for the application of statutory concessions will cease to offer them. Nevertheless, congratulations should be given to the local authorities who have carried out this task. While it is feared that the introduction of amendments to the functioning of the Act, the extension of its implementation by one year, could lead to further delays by local government units in carrying out their task, it must be made clear that leaving the old deadline will bring chaos, so simply confusion and difficulties in transporting people. This will be particularly so-called. Polish county-dominant, where social exclusion in the form of deprivation of contact with workplaces or other forms of participation in public life will increase significantly. Therefore, in order to avoid various difficulties, e.g. in order to limit the possibility of carrying out reduced journeys, the draft law provides for the time limit for the entry into force of those provisions to 1 January 2018. During the committee's work, taking into account the amendments tabled by the Legislative Office of the Sejm, which were written using another editorial technique, it was possible to develop a draft presented to you in print No 725. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u157	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item he would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Bielecki will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present an opinion on the Senate bill amending the law on public collective transport. The draft law aims to postpone the date of entry into force of certain provisions of the Act of 16 December 2010 on public collective transport by one year. In addition, it amends the transitional provisions by consistently extending or rescinding the relevant rules. The Public Collective Transport Act is important for the accessibility of the country as a whole and affects the sustainable development of rural areas in particular. It should provide an efficient public transport system. Despite the six-year period of vacathio legis of certain provisions of the Act, both public transport organisers and carriers raise doubts about the possibility of fulfilling the tasks imposed for the organisation of public collective transport. The entry into force on 1 January 2017 of certain provisions will put around 15 million passengers at risk of losing access to reduced tickets due to the fact that only 9% for road transport by 30 June 2016 Local authorities have chosen public transport operators for collective transport and only 20 local authorities for rail transport. As a consequence, commercial carriers who do not receive compensation for the application of statutory concessions will no longer offer them. This may be due to the fact that the new rules on public collective transport organisations do not guarantee the creation of a system corresponding to social expectations. Among the shortcomings of the current solution, local authorities report that it is not possible to grant a public transport operator exclusive rights. The current principle of unlimited protection of competition in public transport, namely economic liberalisation, is equivalent to the deterioration of the situation of small townspeople. The essence of the exclusive right is the possibility of compensating for losses generated by the deficit line, the maintenance of which is important from a social point of view, from income from a viable line. As a result, local authorities are not interested in implementing this system. This clearly leads to a reduction in the number of deficit lines and the number of courses carried out and thus to a deterioration of the mobility of Poles. The entry into force of certain provisions of the Act on 1 January 2017 will therefore create confusion and difficulties in the passenger transport market. In order to avoid these difficulties, the current draft law provides for the time limit for the entry into force of those provisions to 1 January 2018, at the same time amending the transitional provisions. The proposed amendments will extend the period of application of the current rules on the carriage of persons in domestic transport, including the transfer of subsidies to carriers for lost revenues due to the application of the reductions. Members of the Parliamentary Club The law and justice will support the proposal submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u159	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will be delivered by Monika Wielichowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Public Collective Transport Act aims to postpone by one year the date of entry into force of certain provisions of the Public Collective Transport Act of 16 December 2010. It also introduces changes to certain transitional provisions on public collective transport, which will consistently extend or postpone the application of those rules by one year. Originally, the bill was intended to enter into force on 1 January 2017. However, it turned out that not all local authorities, not all local authorities prepared for changes in the regulations. A large part of the passengers could have lost their relief that day. The designated vacathio legis was not enough to prepare for changes well. Therefore, as not all local authorities have prepared a public collective transport organisation and not all have created transport plans to avoid difficulties associated with the potential loss of reduced passenger tickets, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the changes proposed in the Senate proposal to postpone the date of entry into force of the legislation as of 1 January 2018. We believe that the extension of the period for making changes will be sufficient, and we hope that this will avoid any difficulties and inconveniences, above all, for passengers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I was honoured to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the Senate bill amending the Act on public collective transport. The project entered the Sejm on July 8, and 7 days later it was sent to the committee for first reading. The amendments proposed in the Act of 16 December 2010 on public collective transport should therefore be discussed. Art. 78 (1) (a) (ii) 1 and 2. Carriers providing regular passenger transport services may carry them out by the end of 2017, taking into account the fact that the validity of passenger transport permits is also postponed by one year in relation to the current rules. Amendments to Article 80, 81, 82, 85, 87 and 90 relate to the fact that the carrier receives compensation for the services covered by the concession tariff. This solution is beneficial for passengers, among others. For students. The financing of reduced journeys by public collective transport will be based on existing rules. Only operators should be entitled to compensation for the application of the reductions. The change of the period of validity of the Act for a year gives the possibility of local government units, among others. to conduct tenders for collective transport of citizens. And here the questions arise: Which public transport lines will be classified as intended for reduced journeys? You can also ask how many carriers will sign the agreement with the organizer, i.e., in short, with the local government, for transport. What will happen to unprotected demand for road and rail transport in individual municipalities and districts? The amendment of the law requires a comprehensive revision of the provisions. The need for clear rules to define the financing of deficit lines and the discounting of revenue from viable lines will help to ensure communication to small urban centres, poorly urbanised, allow small carriers to handle services subsidised by local authorities. Here it should be mentioned that small carriers often fight for survival in the transport market, appropriate certificates of qualification are required here, appropriate staff, also in small companies, suitable facilities and transport facilities. It all consists of the fact that small carriers, however, should also have support here, at least statutory. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of further proceedings over the bill in parliament. We are against tardiness in public transport and call on the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction to correct this situation. For infrastructure investments in roads, railways, even airports are being transferred huge funds. There is also an attempt to restore inland waterway transport. Public transport at this moment in many parts of Poland, however, limps, lacks organization, flexibility, communication and diversity of connections. Only large city centres, such as Warsaw, have a diverse offer of public transport. We should ask: What about the rest of Poland? Can this element simply be translated into smaller towns? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the Senate draft law amending the law on public collective transport, print No. 716, and the report of the committee, print No. 725. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law in question, as the applicants point out, aims to postpone by one year the date of entry into force of certain provisions of the Act of 16 December 2010 on public collective transport. In addition, it provides for amendments to the transitional provisions of this law consisting in a consistent extension or extension of the relevant regulations by one year. According to the information provided in the submission and during the committee meeting, despite the six-year vacathio legis of certain provisions, both public transport operators and passenger transport operators raise doubts as to the feasibility of fulfilling the tasks imposed on local government units to organise public collective transport. In addition, as also indicated by the applicants, the entry into force on 1 January 2017 of certain provisions will result in passengers potentially losing access to reduced tickets. This would be the result of poor preparation of local authorities to carry out their duties. Unfortunately, for both road and rail transport, most self-government units have not chosen public transport operators, namely the transport component in which relief will be provided. On the other hand, commercial carriers who do not receive compensation for the application of statutory concessions will simply cease to offer them. And what is usually characteristic of self-governments, or some efficiency in action, here unfortunately did not work, although it must be noted honestly that there is a group of local self-government units who have dealt with this difficult task, and today, when we are debating the change of these regulations, we must of course appreciate this efficiency. Therefore, given the position expressed by the applicants and the expected effect of adopting the bill, it should be assessed positively. I would like to point out here that on the occasion of various public consultations and meetings with citizens, which modern conducts systematically throughout Poland, a very important social problem related to the provisions of this law has been revealed. Well, it will make it impossible to travel by certain means of communication, e.g. young people commuting to college - of course, it is about traveling with a reduced fee. We are talking here about transports that will be carried out on a commercial basis, where there is no possibility to apply reliefs. This, unfortunately, makes the level of access to transport services to a significant social group a major disadvantage. These rules can contribute to the deepening of the transport exclusion of inhabitants of many different localities throughout Poland. These are very disturbing signals. We therefore believe that a legislative initiative should be taken immediately, which will result in a change of legislation to prevent the transport of people from these vulnerable areas. There is also a need to amend the rules to allow all means of communication to be used to study with the current statutory concessions. These are very important demands, which is why, ladies and gentlemen, we expect the government to present appropriate legislative proposals that are precisely responding to these problems, which are increasingly reported by an increasing group of people aware of these problems. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of my position, I would like to inform you that the Modern Posel Club will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u166	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today's Senate bill to amend the Public Collective Transport Act meets the expectations, suggestions of local governments and carriers, who, despite the period, would seem, and so we judge, long enough, because 6 years, have not been able to deal mostly with this problem. From the information, we can read and learn from the materials that only a very small, few local governments have fulfilled these duties. Therefore, the maintenance of this first project, planned on 1 January 2017, would create a rather complex situation. This is why we welcome the Senate initiative and as a club we will vote in favour of this solution. On the other hand, I am convinced that the local authorities will no longer hesitate to resolve and select service providers, that both sides will endeavour so that we do not have to debate and lean on finding a solution again next year. I think that the Ministry and the Minister will also endeavour to regulate this in such a way that we can use this period to prepare ourselves well and consider how to resolve this or how to identify the exit from the situations that have been raised here today, how to take into account and see the solution to the problem not only in cities, because this issue has been raised, but how to communicate how to allow the use of collective transport for small towns and towns that are far from major transport routes. Hence, as I said, we declare cooperation and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Gaina will be the last to speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u168	Dear Marshal, High Seym! On behalf of Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Act on public collective transport. The Act of 16 December 2010 entered into force on 1 March 2011. Part of the provisions was covered by the 6-year period of vacathio legis, they are due to enter into force on 1 January 2017. The entry into force of those provisions may result in the loss by passengers benefiting from public collective transport of the possibility of benefiting from reduced tickets. This right is primarily exercised by learners and older people, and it would be in these groups that the solution would be to deprive passengers of the possibility of using cheaper mobility. In turn, the payment of compensation for concession tickets would then only be possible for entities that have signed agreements with local government units, which would result in carriers who did not enter into such agreements not being able to sell concession tickets. According to information provided by the Association of Voivodships of the Republic of Poland and the Marshal's Offices, a large group of local government units has not yet complied with the requirements of the public collective transport organisation imposed by the Act of 16 December 2010. The aim of the bill is to postpone the entry into force of the provisions covered by the vacathio legis as at 1 January 2018, which will allow applicants to retain full access by passengers to the statutory concessions for all carriers - irrespective of the signature of the agreement by the carrier with the local government unit. This will also allow local authorities to organise public transport in their area in order to best meet the needs of their residents. This will also allow for an in-depth analysis of the target shape of public collective transport organisations at this time and possible legislative changes in this area. Taking into account the views of external actors involved in the proceedings for the drafting of this bill, it should be noted that there is a need to adopt legal solutions providing for mechanisms for cooperation between powiats and municipalities which will enable the creation of an integrated public collective transport system. For these reasons, the delay in the date of entry into force of the Act will allow the extended period of vacathio legis to be used for the necessary amendments. It is necessary to adopt a comprehensive target legislative solution in the field of public collective transport. Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will support the bill submitted to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u169	Thank you very much. Nine ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. She is the first to ask the question of Mrs Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u170	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Both public transport operators and passenger transport operators raise doubts as to the feasibility of carrying out public transport tasks. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: Will the proposed changes have a positive effect on the equal treatment of transport companies? Isn't there going to be a threat of monopolising the market? Does the Minister have effective ideas for cooperation with local government units to improve the functioning of public collective transport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u171	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u172	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The amendments proposed in the Act will extend the period of application of the current rules on the regular carriage of passengers in domestic transport, including the transfer of subsidies to carriers for lost revenues from the application of statutory concessions. The entry into force of this law from 1 January next year would create a very serious disturbance in the functioning of public transport. Therefore, I have two short questions. Does the Ministry have up-to-date data on the state of the local government's involvement in the organisation of public collective transport in its territory? And second question: Is work in the Ministry on a comprehensive amendment of the law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u173	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mr Zbigniew Biernat, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill that we are discussing really gives us time to develop new legislation that will improve public transport. I am very pleased that the Polish People's Party understood that this law, which is in force today, actually excludes rural areas and small towns from public communication. Not by chance only 269 local governments adopted resolutions on organized public transport, because they were cities, agglomerations and large district cities, large voivodship cities. Full liberalisation in transport has caused business to go where it pays off. All deficit rates have been wiped out. Young people can't get to school, residents can't get to work. It can't go on like this. A profound change is therefore needed. Minister, in order to achieve this, it is necessary to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] really introducing exclusive law. Are we considering this option? Are the resort and the minister ready for such solutions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u175	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Bogdan Latosiński, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Public transport takes several dozen years, in the local government of Świętokrzyskie Voivodship - by 5. I don't think I have to convince anyone in this room about how bad extra-urban public transport works. It's terrible. Who's responsible for this? Nobody's report leaves a dry thread, indicates self-government. The same self-governments, which at 6 years of age - the last stage of implementation - was the stage of carrying out reliable analyses in their territories and introducing those transport plans, for which the inhabitants of the municipalities, the towns that are cut off from the world - did not do so for 6 years. So I have a question. Will it be done in the next year by local governments that really ruined this transport without controlling the permits issued, focusing only on their issuance? Are there any anticipated changes? Because this law of 16 December 2010. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure she would have regulated this market. She's got some flaws. Are there any adjustments to this bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u177	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Bartosik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To postpone the date of entry into force of the proposed law by one year is a necessary and desirable decision, because local governments, as we know, are not prepared for these changes. This will enable local authorities to adapt to the new rules, but above all will allow passengers to maintain full access to reliefs for all carriers. I would like to ask the Minister whether this time, one year, will be used to review the solutions proposed so far and to look for another way of organising certain aspects of public collective transport, given in particular the difficulties of district governments, because there are difficulties in adapting [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the solutions currently proposed are the largest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u179	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Barbara Dziuk, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Communication Communal Union of the Upper Silesian Industrial District, the organizer of public collective transport in the Upper Silesian agglomeration, has moved forward: it has introduced SKUP cards and regulations that may endanger life and health. This institution wishes to record each time the moment of getting on and off the tram or bus on the vehicle. I think extortion of this kind of information is a threat. I have a question to the Minister: Will such legislation be introduced that will cut back the self-will of the institutions which force clients to provide any personal data? And second question: Will electronic identification and supervision rules be adapted so that citizens of the Republic of Poland feel safe in cyberspace? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u181	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This problem we're discussing today is not a matter of the year. This problem is called six years old, six years old. And let's not say the government can't do it. This is not the kind of reform the government has managed. This shows that in this whole story there is no system solution and answers to the question of who to pay for the least profitable lines. In my opinion, the essence of the problem is that, not the sixth time we move it by a year, which means the prop is always alive. I invite the Infrastructure Commission, the Minister of Infrastructure, to cooperate with the local government committee, because I hope that this will help us sit down with local government officials and try to work out something constructive that will cure the situation in public transport and make us stop playing makeshifts from year to year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, is now asking the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are many problems in public collective transport regarding local communication. Disputes arise on the line of the municipality - district, district - inter-city communication relationship, municipalities have a problem with the agreement on the separation of the cost of maintenance of the transport carried out by the operator. I'll use an example. Sometimes there is, for example. as in Wodzisław Śląski, from which the MZK expects to cover financial losses for transporting the inhabitants of the city by buses of the association of municipalities. Otherwise, the MZK is criticised for the operation and organisation of transport by the members of the association themselves, e.g. In the Hawk-Zdroje. The lack of cooperation between municipalities and powiats lies in the general rules. I have a question: Will the maintenance of the current rules for a year secure the operation of public utility lines in local governments and reduce the scope of road and rail services due to the uncertainty of legislative solutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u185	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about scale, I mean whether there are data available in the ministry on how many people benefit from reliefs will continue to benefit from public transport and how many people will benefit from non-public transport, which will be financed by a certain compensation by the municipalities. I mean the percentage chapter, how many people are going to use this transport, and how much is it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u187	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Jerzy Szmit will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for all those questions. This is, indeed, a senate project, but the government has a duty to address all the questions raised and to put forward a position on which the High Chamber is working. Most of the questions that have been asked concerned the government's intentions in relation to the final shape of the Public Collective Transport Act. Today we are discussing the extension of the vacathio legis, which is the matter of translating the entry into force of part of the Act, which is primarily about the method of calculating compensation for reduced journeys. At both yesterday's committee meeting and today's debate here in the plenary room, we see the compatibility of virtually all clubs, almost all of them, with regard to the need to extend the vacathio legis in this area. Therefore, I will no longer refer to this matter, because I understand that there is full compliance of the House here, and I will no longer comment on it. On the other hand, many of the questions that both yesterday and today have been raised concern about what is next about the problem, what is next. Thus, High Izbo, the government together with carriers, but also with other environments, has been working for several months on a major change of this law. This big change is necessary, even in the face of today's questions, it concerns... The law must change because the present form of it, if it entered into force in such a form, I already ignore this case, which we are discussing today, could have a very negative effect on the communication cohesion of Poland. I will therefore present to the High House a few of the fundamental principles that we will prepare and work on. I hope that as early as September, or at least in the second half of it, we will be able to present to the High House a proposal for a fundamental amendment of this law, and thus... At this point I reply that it will be sufficient time for the end of 2017, earlier, in 2017 to be clear rules for the new operation of collective transport, so that local authorities can prepare for this and carry out all necessary activities next year. We are leaving, as it is true, one year, because theoretically it would be possible to extend the vacathio legis by the end of 2018, but nevertheless we want 2018 to be a year of testing, whether these solutions that we will introduce will simply work out. There's still time to make a final adjustment so we don't make a big mistake here. High Izbo! Let me therefore make a few assumptions which will be the foundation of the project being prepared. The main proposals concern the following changes: changes in the nature of public services. The proposed amendment provides that public transport services of general interest will be able to be created by public collective transport organisers only on those lines which will not be operated by commercial carriers on a market basis. To provide commercial carriers with the possibility to apply for State subsidies for the recognition of statutory concessions, it will allow access to tickets with a statutory concession for passengers both in public transport and in commercial transport. According to the law that is in force today, only subsidies would be possible from 1 January, compensation for the relief would only be possible for carriers of general interest. The third point is to eliminate the limitation of the possibility of departing passengers only at the stops specified in the timetable. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that this is not a systemic issue, but it is very distressing on a daily basis. Often there are situations where there is a statutory ban on the release of passengers, getting out of designated stops, which are on the timetable, even though these are also suitable stops. So we allow this possibility for the comfort of passengers, but we are only talking about getting off. We're not talking about getting in, we're talking about getting out. The fourth point is the differentiation of the bus fare due to the size of the bus divided into its passenger space capacity. So you can say that when you charge for the use of stops by carriers who have bigger buses, local authorities will be able to set higher prices, because this is a very precise way to say. These prices will not be harmonised, so it is an attempt to level the playing field between those with large buses and those with small ones. In the case of parts of the line, their profitability can actually be achieved only if they are operated by small vehicles, and therefore this is a very logical request that we support. The fifth point is the introduction of the obligation to design new journeys, courses in the middle of the time interval between journeys, courses already existing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important problem, often in the transport market there is a conflict, new carriers reporting to operate a given line propose that the departures of their buses be 2 or 3 minutes after the already existing scheduled departures. This creates huge conflicts between carriers, but also confusion among passengers. This solution may not be ideal, because it is difficult to find the ideal solution here at all, but we want to propose it and discuss it and then possibly introduce it. The sixth point is to amend the provisions on the possibility for organisers to revoke the declaration of carriage authorising commercial operations. The proposed amendment introduces a provision that confirmation of the declaration of carriage may be withdrawn by the organiser after written warning and re-recognition of the same infringements. This point, as the representatives of the carriers have reported, is needed because in the current form of a law, which is very strict in this respect, in fact even a minor breach can cause the possibility of the operation to be revoked. We do not want such strict solutions, we understand that all of this needs to be resolved rationally, and we need to be resolved in such a way as to serve customers first and foremost, but also with respect for the interests of carriers. Next, the exemption of buses carrying out regional services of persons on lines up to 50 km from tolls on sections of tolled national roads. This request was made by Minister Andrzej Adamczyk during his previous term of office, today we enter him into the bill and we will proceed over it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there are a few very important issues that have emerged from today's discussion and have also appeared in the questions. First of all, it is a matter of agreeing and coordinating transport plans. This is a case that is very neglected today. Of course, today there is no obligation of such coordination, it is only a kind of recommendation, but also an unanswered one in the law. It is therefore necessary to consider that the mechanism for coordinating and agreeing transport plans between different local authorities is simply effective. This is necessary because it is of great importance for communication cohesion, for the comfort of passengers, for the possibility of using transport. Another case that didn't sound like it today, but I'd like to refer to it as well. Namely, we must also refer to rail transport during the work on this major amendment. Because he can play - and plays - a very important role and should play an even more important role than he currently does. We also see that even in the plans of local governments, in these transport plans, this rail transport was very poorly considered. Of course, the vast majority of local governments do not have access to the railways, just as in Poland is, such is the poor railway infrastructure. However, this should be taken into account. High Izbo! I would also like to address the voice of Mr Maciejewski, chairman of the committee of government. It is indeed a very good idea that together - we are open as a ministry for debate in this area - that when determining the final shape of the bill we should be in constant contact and in constant debate, and in constant consultation with representatives of the local government, because they are primarily implementing and responsible for this transport today. We want to develop such a solution which will serve all participants in this market, so important for maintaining the communication coherence of Poland. And, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday during the discussion in the committee, proposals were made for possible amendments to the High House to be considered. We in the Ministry have carried out a very thorough analysis of these amendments tabled at least orally at the time. As regards the 1st amendment, which concerns the extension of the validity of authorisations ending between 2016 and 2017, we have reviewed this thoroughly, and it is that this law solves this problem and there is no need to take this additional amendment into account. Finally, two other amendments. One of these concerns the refusal to extend the validity of authorisations - this matter will actually be regulated in this large law. 3. The amendment concerns the issue of confirmations of transport declarations and this issue will also be regulated in a major amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u189	Thank you very much. Would Mr Kilian like to speak? I don't want to. That concludes the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports (prints Nos 715 and 724). I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Ławniczak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. This law was submitted to the marshal's staff on July 5th, 15 July, the marshal sent it to the Committee on Infrastructure. The Committee on Infrastructure, on the other hand, after first reading and considering the draft law at its meeting on 19 July, asks the Sejm to adopt the same draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, the project consists of only two articles. Art. 1 of the project provides for the addition of a new article in the airport specialization, art. 4a. It concerns a new deadline for setting up an airport, managing an airport or the Polish Air Navigation Agency to submit an application to the competent voivodeship for a decision to authorise an investment in an airport of public use. The deadline in the light of the existing rules was 31 December 2015, and according to the draft proposal it will be possible to submit a proposal from the date of entry into force of the Act until 31 December 2020, so we move this deadline by 5 years. According to Art. 2 draft law will enter into force 14 days after the announcement. I would add that the effects of the Act should, of course, be positive, as the objective of the airport specialization is to increase airport capacity, which is undoubtedly affecting the development of the competitiveness of our economy and the prospects for tourism development. This will certainly have a positive impact on local labour markets and regional development. Ladies and gentlemen, the plans for further investments in airports, such as the construction and extension or reconstruction of airports, can be implemented under the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and Environment 2014-2020, specifically under the thematic objective 7. Finally, I would like to point out that there are no legislative objections to this short bill. The Act does not have any financial implications for the State or for local authorities. It does not provide for the adoption of implementing acts, nor is it subject to the regulation of European Union legislation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u191	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Puda will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present a position on the draft law amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. The proposed proposal for an amendment to the so-called the airport specialty provides for an extension of the deadline by which the airport is established, managing the airport or the Polish Air Navigation Agency may submit an application for a decision to authorise an investment in the field of public service airport. In the current Law of 12 February 2009 on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in airports of public use, that deadline was set at 31 December 2015. The proposed amendment will extend the deadline until 31 December 2020. I would like to remind you that this law sets out the rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in airports of public use. In particular, it is the construction, reconstruction or expansion of airports or facilities and facilities for operating air traffic. The biggest challenges currently in the context of the development of air transport in our country are increasing air transport capacity, maintaining air traffic control safety and ensuring safety and the highest standard of airport passenger service. To this end, it is necessary, and will, to implement a number of projects which will be eligible for EU funding. The extension of the term of validity of the specialty will facilitate the decision-making process by the relevant voivodships and facilitate the efficient implementation of the investment. The draft law will certainly have a positive impact on the efficient use of European funds and can also have a positive impact on the competitiveness of the economy and on the development of the labour market. Efficient transport and reduced travel time are those aspects that investors are paying close attention to looking for attractive places for their projects. It should also be noted that safe and efficient management of the sky will affect not only aircraft taking off and landing at our airports, because Polish airspace is an important area of transit flights. Thanks to the necessary investments, the Polish Air Navigation Agency will be able to handle safely and efficiently more aircraft flying over our country. The Law of 12 February 2009 signed by President Lech Kaczyński enabled the Euro 2012 challenge to be met. That's, among other things. thanks to this law, airports such as Modlin, Lublin were created, thanks to it modernized the aviation infrastructure both around the air and enabling the Polish Air Navigation Agency to fulfil its statutory tasks. Although the Euro 2012 has long been behind us, the new airports are developing rapidly, serving an increasing number of passengers, creating new jobs in the regions where they were created. The regulations contained in the Act allowed the Polish Air Navigation Agency to purchase land for the construction of a backup air traffic control centre, which will meet the highest safety standards. All over the world, we can continue to see the dynamic development of air transport. Poland is currently the sixth largest airspace in Europe, the sixth largest, but still chasing the top of Europe. In order to develop in order to be an equal partner, we must make every effort to ensure that aviation infrastructure continues to be efficiently upgraded and expanded. The extension of this law will enable this objective to be achieved. With regard to the transport development strategy for 2020 adopted by the Council of Ministers on 22 January 2013, it will be possible to implement the next ones set up by the above mentioned. investment strategy, i.e. increasing the capacity of existing airports' infrastructure, ensuring the conditions for efficient development of aviation and increasing the share of air transport by linking with road and rail transport. In view of the above, it is entirely appropriate to allow the setting-up of airports, airport managers, as well as the Polish Air Navigation Agency to use the solutions provided for in the specialty also after 31 December 2015 for airspace in Poland. I am convinced that the amendment of this law is in the interests of the whole country and that each club will support these positive changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żmijan will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform presents its position on the draft law amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. The project is included in print No 715, and the report of the Infrastructure Commission is published in print No 724. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that the Act adopted in 2009 is a law of paramount importance. Based on these regulations, 16 existing airports have been modernised in Poland and one airport has been built from scratch, because the provisions of this law were directed to existing airports, possibly newly built airports and to the Polish Air Navigation Agency, which participates in air traffic, has an impact on its organisation and above all on safety. Since the purpose of this amendment is to extend the life of the law, to change its validity from 2015 to 2020, because special regulations have to do with themselves that they operate at a certain time, of course my club will vote in favour of the adoption of this law, because it is indeed the case that our airports are developing, but above all, air traffic is increasing, the forecasts in this respect are optimistic, and therefore the possibility to benefit from such regulation is justified, because it is possible to use EU funds in the financial perspective of 2014.2020. If you can have any attention here at all, it is only because - I particularly address these words to Minister Adamczyk, Minister Szmit - that it was necessary to go out with this amendment simply earlier, because it was nothing new for you, because you participated in the adoption of this law, and in fact now we have a situation in which the law will work backwards, because this law ended its life at the end of 2015. But, of course, we have discussed this, it is very likely that this particular interest makes such an initiative legitimate and in accordance with the legislative procedure. Of course, we have a whole range of airports so-called. exclusive use, i.e. non-public use airports. This environment also demands support. And here I am addressing these words and a question to the Minister about a possible action plan in terms of, firstly, public use airports, but also those airports of exclusive use. I'm done. In view of these facts, my club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I was honoured to present an opinion on the draft law amending the Law on the special arrangements for preparing and implementing investments in the field of public use airports. The Act lays down rules on the acquisition of real estate for investments in the field of public use airports, conditions for the preparation of investments, construction or modernisation by competent authorities. The solutions adopted in the existing law improve and modernise regional airports. It improves the transport accessibility of our voivodships, significantly helps in the pursuit of business activities by both domestic and foreign economic operators. With regard to the whole area of growing air transport services in our country, the growing demand for air services, this is a very big challenge that we have to face. While maintaining safety in air traffic, using the latest technical solutions, the latest environmental standards is possible to increase the capacity of our public use airports. Due to many mechanisms and possible projects to support the construction and modernisation of our airports, it is justified to allow the setting-up of airports, managing airports, as well as the Polish Air Navigation Agency to use the solutions provided for in the airport specialization also after 31 December 2015. According to the requested draft, a request from the competent authorities to the competent voivode for a decision to authorise an investment in a public airport will still be possible from the date of entry into force of the Act until 31 December 2020. I would like to remind you that the current time limit is in the light of the existing provisions of 31 December 2015. The law, which will enter into force, will have a positive impact on the labour market in the various regions, as these investments will create new jobs, serve the development of tourism, and will also affect the competitiveness of our economy as a whole. The amendment adopted will undoubtedly help to modernise our regional airports. Therefore, the Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour of further positive proceding of this parliamentary project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u197	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will speak on behalf of the Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u198	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports, which is included in print No.715. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law provides for the addition of a new article. 4a to the so-called an airport specialty. According to the justification submitted by the applicants, it will refer to a new deadline within which the setting-up of an airport, its management or the Polish Air Navigation Agency will be able to apply to the competent voivodeship for a decision to authorise the implementation of an investment in the field of public service airport. The law in force provided that these applications could have been submitted by 31 December 2015. This proposal provides that the proposal can be submitted from the date of entry into force until 31 December 2020. Ladies and gentlemen! The air transport services market in Poland, as the applicants also point out, faces great challenges. One of these challenges is the implementation of solutions that will enable the efficient development of the growing demand for air transport services. Of the many opportunities available to managers, it is certainly a priority to increase the capacity of already existing public service airport infrastructure. This is an important demand due to the impact on the efficient functioning of the entire airport network. According to the justification presented by the applicants, it is a priority to ensure the effective functioning of the airport network through the sustainable development of the air transport and cargo market, while ensuring the highest safety and environmental standards. In turn, the natural way to achieve the objective I mentioned, namely to increase the capacity of existing airports in order to meet the needs of constantly growing air traffic, will be to modernise, expand, buy new equipment, implement technical solutions to improve the use of existing infrastructure. This is where we get to the bottom of this. In the current financial perspective, further investments in the area of airports are planned under the thematic objective of the 7th Operational Programme. The Transport Development Strategy by 2020 (with a 2030 perspective) adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2013 also envisages further investment in this area. Therefore, as I understand it, a draft of this law has appeared and it is, of course, justified, because it is in the interest of our country to enable airport managers to use the solutions provided for in the so-called "new" or "new" airports. airport specialization until the end of 2020 Ladies and gentlemen! When considering projects relating to the wider development of infrastructure, we must also not forget the impact of such investments, including investments in aviation infrastructure. Well, airports are a kind of window to the world for the local community. The closer the local market is to infrastructure of this type, the greater the local market benefits. The airport is always a new impetus for development in directions that would not often be possible without such investments, but also an increase in the investment attractiveness of the region, it is an opportunity for rapid transport to new markets, the possibility of faster travel in business or private matters. It is difficult to overestimate the importance of this type of investment for the region, for each region in which such investment arises. And I would like to point out - my previous speakers also mentioned this - that the aviation market in Poland has significantly more potential than it is currently generated, so the field for development, what I think, we all know and what we are all aware of is very, but it is very big. Of course, the airport is also an opportunity to increase tourism traffic and improve transport accessibility. All of this, of course, justifies the adoption of the project we are investigating. Finally, I would like to say one more important aspect. Because investment in airports is also a prospect of improving the image of our country, it is an investment in this image, because nothing is so good about this image as the view of a beautiful, modern airport, which can be seen after a long journey. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of my position, I would like to inform you that the Modern Posel Club will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is no doubt that today's Act 715 and 724 on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in public-use airports is an important element, an important moment, a very important legislative act that will enable further development, further investments, further image change, further change in the economic potential of our airports. My previous speakers and the rapporteur have given a lot of attention to explaining these issues. As Members of the Polish People's Party, we are convinced that this is a good course of action. It is very good that, despite differences of opinion between the Law and Justice, the Law and Justice Government wants to continue and implement these good mechanisms in the years to come, as the 2009 Act has enabled us to change the picture of our airports in terms of potential, in terms of equipment for modern devices, where new safety conditions for passengers have been created. This is an important link in the economic development of the region and the country. It's a good thing there's a chance. We look at this in such a way that the external and internal communication of the country takes place at the level of road, rail and air infrastructure. I am convinced that this law, this legislation, will serve economic and social development and shape a new picture of the Republic. As a club of the Polish People's Party, we will vote in favour of this act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u201	Thank you very much. Ms Małgorzata Zwierzan will speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. The provisions of the Law of 12 February 2009 on the special arrangements for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports have reduced the formalities relating to the construction of public airports to a minimum. Under this agreement, airport managers or the Polish Air Navigation Agency were able to invest in the field of public use by submitting only a request for a decision on this matter to the competent voivode. The simplified procedures were in force for applications submitted until 31 December 2015. This amendment envisages changing this deadline to 31 December 2020. The extension of the possibility of using the provisions of the Law of 12 February 2009 is essential, taking into account the current financial perspective indicated by the projectors and the planned further investment in airport development. There is no doubt that air transport plays a key role in their development by combining local and global markets. Therefore, the simplification of procedures in the field of the implementation of investments in the field of expansion and modernisation of existing aviation infrastructure in Poland can only have positive aspects. Among the benefits of this regulation, the legislators point out among others. Creating new jobs, improving transport accessibility of Poland, increasing economic competitiveness of the regions concerned vis-à-vis the rest of the country and increasing tourism. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of further proceedings of this law. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u203	Thank you very much, Member. Are there still Members who want to enlist? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Barbara Dziuk, the Law and Justice Club. Two minutes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Airport development is the development of transport, widely understood, and economic development. But in order for everything to be properly conducted, you have to have a very broad look. With the development of airports, there must also be even rail connections as well as collective transport. And here I have a question for the Minister: In this whole development process, I mean the airport Katowice-Pyrzowice, is taken into account the project Mon. The construction of the railway connection MPL Katowice in Pyrzowice with the cities of the Upper Silesian agglomeration, section Katowice - Pyrzowice? I would like to point out that the only economically chosen trace with environmental conditions is the so-called. A trace of the old railroad. It's about route 137, 131, 182. Minister, is it in this development concept of airports that you also take into account the priority of development and the introduction of rail transport routes, both economically and personally? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u205	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. In recent years there have been several new airports, and since this is the future for our economy, since we see a good development opportunity here, is the government planning to build new airports in the coming years? Are there any strategic assumptions in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u207	Thank you very much, sir. And you are asking Mr Paweł Papke, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The market for air transport services in Poland faces a challenge which is effectively meeting the demand for air transport. The increase in capacity of existing airport infrastructure is a priority to ensure the efficiency of the airport network through the sustainable development of the air transport and cargo market, while ensuring the highest safety and environmental standards. It is good that we are here today debating this issue and that we will extend the life of this law, but there is such a basic question: What are the plans of the government for the new development of air transport? This is primarily about regional ports, which are so needed for the regional development of the whole country. And here's a question from the media: What about the central port that the media are discussing? Can the government take a stand on this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u209	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Mr Jerzy Szmit, will answer the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank those Members who signed the bill very warmly because it solves a very important problem in the development of aviation infrastructure in Poland. I'm not gonna make any more of these excuses. In fact, in all the club speeches, as well as in the questions, there is clear support for this project, so maybe I will refer to a few points, to the questions that have been raised, above all, and indeed to the intentions of the Government of Law and Justice in this regard. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as far as legislative intentions are concerned, maybe I will start with them, there are now four laws in process, which concern Polish aviation. During the final arrangements within the government is the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency, which is to change in a diametric manner, in a fundamental way the legal basis for the functioning and internal structure of the Agency. The second law, which is in the inter-ministerial consultation, is a law that regulates the operation of ultralight aviation, i.e. those aircraft whose weight does not exceed 600 kg - small aircraft, which for many aviation lovers are an opportunity to really for relatively little money just fly and enjoy all that aviation gives. Here I will say that one of the motivations of this project is that we have in Poland today several hundred aircraft flying in Poland and used by citizens of the Republic of Poland, which are registered in the Czech Republic, the French Republic, outside Poland. The difficulties that are present today, and which the environment has been paying attention to for many years, we simply want to remove - those obstacles that hinder the development of small aviation. The law on changing the classification of airports, which today was considered, which today was under discussion by the Committee on Infrastructure, assumes the possibility of better, wider use of airports, which today in Poland are mainly used by aeroclubs. This is a very important movement that will mobilize, which will help in the development of Polish aviation. This law at the same time, this is a change in the Aviation Law, provides for a change in the functioning of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission. I hope that at this session of the Sejm we will also discuss this law. Finally, there is this law that we are considering here, that is, the special act, which extends the preferential conditions for the construction of airports in Poland. So this is very important, you can even say, the air package that the Law and Justice Government has already prepared - it is already on a parliamentary road or on a government path, so we have very concrete intentions here. With regard to the extremely important problem, an extremely important question concerning the construction of a central airport, this is today a key question that we need to ask ourselves when we are talking about the development of Polish aviation. A great deal has already been written about the central airport, and a great deal has been said. There were several discussions that were organized at the Polish Air Navigation Agency and the Ministry. We're getting closer. Two teams were set up for this purpose. There is one team within the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, which already has a purely technical and very specialised side to consider this issue, as well as a proposal submitted by Minister Andrzej Adamczyk to Prime Minister Beata Szydło to set up an inter-ministerial team, because it is clear that if this huge investment comes into effect, then its reach... It is not only transport infrastructure, but it is an extremely important task for the strategic development of Poland. So much for formal preparation, then, for organizational preparation. At the same time, we commission the work that needs to be done, which first of all must help us to find the answer to the question of what the streams are really going to be, so-called. passenger streams. According to estimates by the Civil Aviation Office, passenger transport in Poland can increase from 30 million to 60 million passengers in a few years, so we are really looking forward to the enormous development of aviation here. This also includes proposals from the Chinese partners, as well as offers on financing, co-financing of this investment, all of which must be very carefully considered. This is an investment which, on the one hand, can, if it is well prepared - and if in the case of these few basic questions that need to be answered, we will find a good solution, a good answer - very much contribute to the development of Polish aviation, in general the economy. But also when it comes to the construction of large airports, there are negative examples in the world, there are airports, such as an airport in nearby Berlin, which has a delay already counted in years, and still this investment cannot be fully realised. There are other negative examples. If they were made during planning or design errors, unfortunately this can happen. So we are dealing on the one hand with an investment that can be a very important developmental impulse, but also with a rather significant risk. On the other hand, with regard to the development of regional ports, we have 14 regional ports today. They're in very different situations. There are several such as Kraków, Gdansk, Katowice, Wrocław and Poznań, which are developing very quickly and do not have... they are profitable companies, they are making development plans and they are being developed very intensively. However, there are several airports, especially those which were later created, for which today, with regard to the number of passengers, there is no dynamic development, one that could guarantee today that they will be able to maintain within a year, 2 or 3 years. Of course, we can also consider the matter in this way - as some experts have made it clear that we cannot say that the airport itself is the business that must at the end produce a positive result - that in the whole environment the existence of an airport, in the social, economic environment, is so important and that there are so many benefits besides purely business for the company itself, that it is nevertheless necessary to simply such airports, even those which are not profitable today, to maintain. As far as the newest airports are concerned, we must be glad that the airport in Szymany was launched in the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship. As far as the increase in passenger numbers is concerned, I was informed that in the first three months it was 10,000. passengers, so it's really for such taking off completely from zero airport good score. New carriers appear there, but this is mainly today under market conditions, under conditions that individual airports need to develop for themselves. High Izbo! To sum up, I am convinced that this project, which the High Chamber is working on at this moment, will contribute greatly to the development of Polish aviation. I strongly encourage his support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u211	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. At the request of the relevant ministers, the Marshal of the Sejm changed the order of the agenda items today. Directly after point 18, concerning the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports, the Sejm will consider point 19 concerning information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. Point 36. on draft resolutions of Volynski, the Sejm will consider at 3 p.m. 20. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 41 hrs. 17 min 51]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the document: "Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones." As of 31 December 2015 (print No 555) together with the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development (print No 641). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz, to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the politeness of the interruption due to the fact that I had to be at the committee meeting in the second building. I would like to present a report on the implementation of the Special Economic Zones Act. Thus, 2015 was characterised by the lower dynamics of the basic variables describing the effects of special zones compared to 2014, except for the dynamics of investment that remained at the same level. The number of new authorisations issued was 50% lower than 2014 and the first half of 2014 was exceptional in this respect due to the tightening of the rules on regional investment aid which entered into force on 1 July 2014. The growth rate of job creation also decreased in 2015. This is largely due to the fact that 39 permits have expired in the Mielec zone due to the expiry of the period for which they were granted. As a result, the reporting of entrepreneurs with valid permits reduced the number of new jobs by 8.5 thousand, while these companies continue to operate and employ workers. Analogical remark refers to the value of capital invested in zones, which decreased for a similar reason by nearly PLN 3 billion. In 2015, the area of the zones increased by almost 2 000. ha. Its growth was lower by 0.2 thousand. ha compared to the previous year and this was the third largest extension of zone boundaries during the period considered. The biggest increase occurred, this is probably also a part of the country remembers, in 2007 and was the result of an increase in the total limit of the area of the zones from 18 000. ha to 12 thousand. ha. In 2015, the increase in the accumulated value of the capital invested remained at the same level as in 2014 and amounted to 9,5%. Although the dynamics of the investment differed significantly from that recorded between 2005 and 2009, its level it was higher than in 2011 and 2013. In 2015, the number of new jobs created by entrepreneurs with valid permits at the end of 2015 increased by more than 5% compared to 2014 and the dynamic ratio reached the same level as in 2013. These are all the basic indicators related to the development of zones last year. With regard to the report on the implementation of the Zones Act, I can only add that the implementation of the Zone Policy will be maintained, some assumptions and indicators that have been recorded in the current law are being reviewed and we will probably submit to you proposals for corrections in the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u213	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask Mr Mark Owl to present his position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I am pleased to present a report on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones presented by the Council of Ministers. State of 31 December 2015 The obligation to provide the Sejm with this information arises directly from Article. 26th Law of 20 October 1994. The relevant document was submitted on 31 May 2016. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development took note of the information presented at its meeting on 21 June. After a discussion with the Minister, the members of the committee gave a positive opinion on the implementation of the law. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development therefore requests the High Sejm to accept the information contained in print No 555. It should be stressed that the information provided by the Council of Ministers fulfils all the requirements of the Act. Thus, this document contains data on the location and area covered by the status of special economic zones, the effects of these zones, including the number of permits granted and the resulting investment expenditures, as well as the size of employment, the country of origin of capital, the structure of the sector's investment and public aid granted in special economic zones, and companies managing special zones, including. the ownership structure of the companies, their financial results and the investment expenditure incurred for their development. Currently in Poland we have 14 economic zones located in 173 cities and 248 municipalities, and the area of special economic zones occupies an area of almost 20,000. ha. In 2015, the Council of Ministers changed the borders of 11 zones, and several extensions were still under review, but the relevant decisions were taken by the Council of Ministers already in 2016. At the end of last year, entrepreneurs had 2177 important business permits, the cumulative value of the invested capital amounted to almost PLN 112 billion and the number of jobs created exceeded 312 thousand. Last year, as the Minister has already mentioned, fewer permits were issued than in 2014, these permits were 218. The reason is also presented here: since 1 July 2014 there has been a new amount of regional investment aid, so-called regional investment aid. The State aid map was quite significantly reduced and the completion of all these investment projects in the first half of 2014 was simply due to financial conditions where even greater benefits could be obtained from the State aid. However, last year it increased by more than 11 thousand. the number of jobs and the value of investments exceeded 9 billion PLN. Taking this into account, the biggest investor is companies with Polish capital - more than 20%, and then German, American and Dutch capital is represented. It is worth noting that of all entrepreneurs operating in special economic zones more than 50% are companies with Polish capital. It is often said that this aid is directed mainly to companies representing foreign capital. From this information it is clear that the situation is the opposite. The automotive industry is definitely dominated by the industry. It accounts for almost 27% of all investments. Of the 13 companies managing special economic zones, two zones are managed by the Industrial Development Agency - i.e. the Mielec and Tarnobrzeg zone - only in one Pomeranian Regional Development Agency - the pole zone - the state has neither the majority of the shares nor the majority of the votes. In other companies, the majority of votes at the general government holds the Treasury represented by the Minister of Development, although in six of them it does not have at least 50% shares or shares. The financial results of the companies last year were generally quite good. Two companies reported a negative result, he was related to the investments being carried out or transferred, and it is about adding to the costs of even depreciation. In general, companies managing economic zones have a very good financial situation. Many companies have benefited from European funds in recent years, and this is evident in investment expenditures borne by companies. They often carried out investments, among others. technology parks, which provide completely new opportunities for these actors to operate in the future. During the discussion, the members of the committee asked the Minister for detailed information on the country of origin of the capital invested in 2015. I hope that the Minister will answer this question today. To conclude, I would like to thank all the members of the committee on behalf of all the employees of companies managing special economic zones, in particular the management boards of those companies, which have particularly benefited from the results achieved last year. That's what I'm saying, given the fact that 11 boards have recently been changed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u215	Thank you very much, sir. Are there still Members who want to enlist? Oh, I'm sorry. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u216	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government.Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. As of 31 December 2015, in print No 555. First of all, it should be noted that the information provided is poorer with data on companies operating in zones whose zone rights have expired, but they are still active and the jobs are still there. Currently we have 14 economic zones operating, with a total area of almost 20,000 at the end of 2015. ha. The zones were located in 173 cities and 248 municipalities. In 2015, the area of the zones increased by almost 2 000. ha in relation to 2014, which was the result of the change of 11 zones by the Council of Ministers. The number of valid business permits in zones at the end of 2015 amounted to 2177 and the total value of the invested capital amounted to almost PLN 112 billion with the creation of 312 thousand. workplaces. In 2015, 218 permits were issued for activities in zones, i.e. about half of the previous year. According to the Ministry, this was probably due to the tightening of the rules on regional investment aid, which entered into force on 1 July 2014. The number of jobs created in 2015 increased by more than 11 000. in relation to 2014, i.e. by more than 5%. The growth rate has decreased, which may also be due to the fact that 39 permits for activity in zones have expired. Last year, entrepreneurs invested more than PLN 9 billion in zones. The investment increased by more than 9.5% compared to the previous year. Companies with Polish capital have the largest share in investments in zones - almost 20%. Next are companies with German and American capital. It is worth adding that more than 50% entrepreneurs who are authorised to operate in zones are Polish entrepreneurs. Taking into account the information indicated in the report, it is important to note what we have also pointed out in previous years and what Parliamentary Club Legal and Justice has argued that there is no information on the average wages of persons employed in zones. Such data would explain sometimes the thesis about employing low-income people in areas. However, as was apparent from the discussion at the committee meeting, perhaps this information will be prepared shortly. It is also necessary to clarify the land use rate in the different zones. I am referring here to the inclusion in the indicator of unused land, which, for example, because of the location, just like those that are under electrical networks, there will never be areas for investment. Mr. Marshal... I'm sorry. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, please accept the government's information on the implementation of the Special Economic Zones Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u217	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u218	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to present a position on government information on the implementation of the Special Economic Zones Act in 2015. High Izbo! Special economic zones have been operating in Poland for about 20 years. They locate their activities in 14 zones, 173 cities, 248 municipalities. In preparing for this speech, I thought that I could not imagine the economic landscape of Poland without the activity of special economic zones. I'll tell you why I'm thinking this. Many times I have participated in debates, conferences, discussions where it was suggested to change the approach to zones, to change the direction of action, and there have been temptations to eliminate these zones. Fortunately, all these changes have not been made. Some of the changes have been beneficial, as I am about to talk about here, moving towards the development of clusters. Contrary to what the Minister has shown here today briefly, that this dynamic of some indicators in 2015 was not the best, I consider 2015 to be a good year for business, development of economic zones. The area of operation of the zones has been increased by 2 000. ha, many new decisions have been made, permits have been issued. The accumulated value of the invested capital amounted to PLN 112 billion and the number of jobs exceeded 312 thousand. And it was 11 grand bigger. in relation to the previous year. Only in 2015, entrepreneurs invested more than PLN 9 billion, i.e. 9,5% growth up to the previous year, and therefore it was not a bad year. High Izbo! Contrary to popular opinion, Polish companies have the largest share of investments in zones, i.e. 20% and 50% all companies are Polish companies. It's important, that should be emphasized. We are also in good company because German companies are second and American third companies. So this closeness of cooperation with companies at the global level is good in terms of the Polish economy. The automotive sector is the dominant sector of zone activity. This represents, for years, a quarter of the investment. In my opinion, the development of clusters operating in economic zones is very important for the future of the Polish economy. In 2015, legislation was introduced to extend the tasks of companies operating in the zones to introduce, enable vocational education and the formation of clusters. Companies with great commitment have undertaken these tasks and we are already seeing good results. The cluster activity can be seen in south-eastern Poland, in the Mielec zone, where the aviation cluster has been operating for quite some time, or in the Wałbrzych zone - the automotive cluster. There is also a great development of vocational schools, and we are very interested in this individual vocational training. High Izbo! I am convinced that focusing the activities of special economic zones on clusters, where the supply chain and valuable jobs are created around complex and complex production, makes sense. We hope that the rulers will maintain this direction of development. As a result, there is also an opportunity to increase the innovation of the Polish economy, which is an indication of economic development in our global world today. I think that we cannot only think about equalising opportunities, but we should also think about building the competitiveness of the Polish economy, and as I said, this is equal to the innovative Polish economy, so this balance between directing funds to aid equalisation and supporting what is already good, innovative and has a chance to bring added value to the Polish economy makes a profound sense. In conclusion, I believe that we should positively assess the activities of economic zones in 2015 and the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of the government's information. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u219	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I took part in the honour of presenting an opinion on the Kukiz 15 document on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones on behalf of Kukiz. As of 31 December 2015, print No 555. We have followed two decades of special economic zones in Poland, zones which, when they were formed, were a great hope of local governments. As the practice of two decades shows, local governments have become faithful to them and those who have entered the zones from the beginning knew that this is a good investment, a good direction. Moreover, local governments are those who have felt from the beginning that this is a real tool for supporting the labour market, and we remember that the beginning of the 1990s is a difficult time, a time in which every place of work was fought, a fight. Hence today, looking from the perspective of time, we can say that in this area economic zones passed the exam because they created jobs, brought some added value for municipalities, for local governments, because there were specific investments. At the same time, it was a triggering factor for specific municipal investments: land weapons, road construction, infrastructure, and all municipalities and areas covered by the zone had an additional promotional factor, i.e. something that they could emphasize and in all their folders and information on the sites indicated as an asset of the locality. It was this asset that was the treasure and dream of a self-governmentman. That's why this frequent struggle was to make sure that there was this special zone in my village. As we can see, more than 200 municipalities are still few, because we have more than 2 000 municipalities in Poland. Another feature worth paying attention to is the spilling of economic zones. While at the beginning of the economic zone the names were concentrated around the regions, today these economic zones are spilling out and the zone called Warmia-Mazurian is no longer Warmia-Mazurian, because in fact today we already have its elements in the part of the Mazowieckie voivodeship, as in the case of the Pomerania zone, which flows into Kujawsko-Pomorskie or Suwałska, which flows into the Warmia-Mazurian voivodeship. This is some kind of signal that it is worth leaning on, because once we analyze this data, the use of land may not be entirely justified, because we do not have any zone used 100%. In general, we're talking about using about 60% already. But there are two cases out there where we have less than 60%. And the question is whether going into the area shouldn't be slowed down at this point to focus on this maximum use, because there are areas that, unfortunately, haven't been in the interest of investors for years and are simply dead. And one more element I wanted to draw attention to. It's promotional expenses in the zones. This is quite interesting point, because in 2015 management companies allocated PLN 8.2 million to the promotion of the zone, i.e. PLN 0.54 million more than in 2014. Let me just remind you that there were elections in 2015. And here my question to the Minister: How much does this information have to do with the CBA action, which one day, we remember, entered all economic zones in order to control actions and expenditure on promotion? What does it look like right now? Do we have any signals? Because it's something to lean on. And last but not least, it's a shame to say it's over 2,000. The municipalities in Poland do not have everyone in the economic zone, that Poland is not such an economic zone. Maybe this is a signal to the Polish authorities, the Polish Sejm, that maybe it is worth this tax system, since we can see that it has proven itself in economic zones and all these tax reliefs make sense, pass it on to Poland to start bringing benefits to the whole country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u221	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a position on the activities of special economic zones on the basis of the information submitted on the implementation of the Special Economic Zones Act as at 31 December 2015. As we know very well, special economic zones are a compilation of the needs of investors and the needs of individual regions. They are intended to enable economic activities to be carried out on preferential terms through the possibility of State aid, as well as income tax exemptions for the cost of new investment or job creation or property tax. In economic terms, the zones are part of the economic policy of the country supporting the various regions as well as the economy of the whole country. The main objective of setting up special economic zones was to accelerate economic development, to increase investment rates, to manage industrial assets and infrastructure, and to create new jobs. These Truistic statements, I believe, are, however, a starting point, and it is precisely through the prism of these assumptions that the efficiency of the functioning of special economic zones in Poland should be determined. Today we have the task of assessing the activities of special economic zones not only from the perspective of more than 20 years of their existence, but also - and above all - on the basis of the previous year, especially taking into account important changes in the provisions of the Act on Special Economic Zones implemented in 2014 and from the beginning of 2015. It is worth mentioning and analysing some of them, in particular from the point of view of their impact on the functioning of zones. The new regulations have introduced, for example, the need to submit public aid applications, enabling entrepreneurs to initiate a procedure for withdrawing and establishing the expiry of the authorisation or to regulate the procedures for the recovery of public aid granted to zones. Most of the new regulations were a logical consequence of the need to adapt legal solutions to current EU requirements and standards. However, the most significant change since last year was the modification of the State Aid Map, i.e. the maximum intensity of aid granted to zones, resulting in an average reduction of 15 percentage points for most regions. Only the so-called voivodship was excluded from this change. east wall, where the aid continued to remain at 50% , due to the need to support zones in these regions, so that they can compete with well-functioning and developing zones in other parts of Poland, e.g. with Katowice Special Economic Zone. There is no doubt that changes in the granting of State aid have affected economic zones. Indeed, the number of permits granted to investors in 2015 decreased by half compared to 2014, i.e. from 439 to 219. However, such a huge decrease is mainly a consequence of the above mentioned changes. The 2014 record figures result from the willingness of entrepreneurs to enter the special economic zone before the new regulations enter into force, among others. before reducing their public aid. The changes introduced have a positive dimension. Thanks to them they improved, among others. the conditions for small and new investors, the aim is to increase their interest and encourage investment. The reorganization of the State Aid Map also contributed to the success of the Mielec Special Economic Zone, where most permits were issued in 2015. Despite the newly implemented constraints and difficulties in providing state aid, the area is looking for more and more new solutions to maintain investor interest without additional support. One example is the Wałbrzych zone, which set up a purchasing group, which managed to reduce the cost of purchasing electricity by up to 23%. The Legnica zone, on the other hand, operates a system of individual investor care, which in turn facilitated current contacts and communication between partners. The Łódź Special Economic Zone in 2015 strengthened Polish-Chinese cooperation, organizing meetings with entrepreneurs interested in exporting to China. I will also mention, as I come from Silesia, how successful Katowice Special Economic Zone has been, which last year achieved the highest profit, i.e. 17.2 million PLN. In 2015, it was recognised as the best free economic zone in Europe and the second in the world. Thanks to the Katowice Special Economic Zone Śląskie voivodship according to the report of the Institute for Market Economy Research is the most attractive investment region in Poland. In view of the above, it must be acknowledged that, despite many positive and comforting aspects of the functioning of the zones, there is still much to be done, particularly as regards the increase in the number of permits issued or the creation of jobs. He's struggling with problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] e.g. the staggering economic zone. In view of all the facts and data contained in the document submitted, in particular the increase in invested capital, employment and zone areas, recognising the correctness of the implementation of the economic zone assumptions, I would like to stress that the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u223	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u224	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u225	There he is. There's the minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u226	Hello. High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to refer to the information submitted on the functioning of economic zones in 2015. This is standard information, because it is a duty, and it is good that the High House can read what has been happening in the economic zones in the last year. I remember the discussion perfectly when their fates were at stake, it was decided whether the economic zones would exist or not. Here the resistance was quite strong and this argument that it could better cover the whole of Poland with one economic zone, already began to take the top. However, the functioning of the economic zones has been extended until 2026. This is important, this information shows that it does work. The creation of a single economic zone from Poland is possible through economic facilitation and tax facilitation. This will include all entrepreneurs and this is the solution. However, there are regions that require a lot of support. I could show the Podkarpacie here, like the Mielec zone or the tarnobrzeg zone. This economic recovery and this fall in unemployment would never have occurred if it hadn't been for the zone, if it hadn't been for the future of modern technologies, new companies. There has also been a repeated allegation that by the existence of economic zones the competition of Polish companies is disturbed, because foreign companies come and cut our companies out, endangering the conditions of operation, and distort competition. According to today's information, there is, however, the advantage of Polish companies, which does not confirm this thesis, and this is good information. The good news is that, despite the amendment of the law and less support, 16 thousand have arrived in the last year. jobs in areas covered by zones. Watching the economic zones, this was about local governments... The local authorities accepted as something that the local government had notified if it had succeeded in creating a sub-zone in the municipality. It didn't always work out. You can see that it doesn't work, because in many municipalities these sub-zones have been created, invested in infrastructure, and there is one investor, or there are no investors at all, and that is quite a challenge. In conclusion, I will no longer quote here all these figures or all the statistics that were quoted by the previous speakers. The Polish People's Party will be in favour of this information presented by the government. It is only a pity that the good change has also reached the economic zones, because 11 zones have changed the management of these zones. I do not know if this was necessary and whether this good change will have a positive effect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u227	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the "Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones." State of 31 December 2015 The presentation of information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones is a statutory obligation imposed on the Council of Ministers. The document contains a number of relevant data, such as location, level of investment, number of jobs and activity of companies operating in zones. The information is based on quarterly reports which the management boards of zone companies are required to provide to the Ministry of Development. The material gives an opinion on the key activity of investors for the economy. Among the 15 leading investors operating in the zones there is not a single Polish entity. Although Polish investments account for almost 20% of the investment in the capital area, the material does not contain cross-cutting information about the size of investments made by Polish companies. This would allow itself to have an opinion on the national economic policy pursued by the Ministry of Development in special economic zones. In addition, the information contains the industry structure of the cumulative value of the investment, which shows that the leading sector is the automotive sector located in south-western Poland. The consequence of this should be to align the mechanisms of the plan for responsible development with the strategies implemented in the national actors of the industry. Road infrastructure should be correlated with the logistics of companies already operating. For the automotive sector it is beneficial to designate a pan-European transport corridor of Wrocław - Prague - Munich in the form of the A8 motorway in the near future. Another important issue is the efficiency of the job creation tasks carried out by the actors, in particular their quality. Absolute number of jobs created exceeding 312 000 with investments of PLN 112 billion is impressive, but currently the expectations of young and educated people are linked to jobs offering further opportunities for development. It seems that the time has come to make an econometric model and to carry out simulations to determine the benefits of the further functioning of zones, or to create alternatives. It is also worrying that the use of all land in existing zones is currently at 65%. The total area is almost 20,000. ha and in 2015 their total area increased by almost 2 000 compared to the previous year. ha. Is this a sign of weakness in decision-making processes in zone management companies? The expansion of energy clusters based on renewable energy sources could be a good proposal in terms of the development of these areas, while involving existing operators in economic zones. The rate of permit issued in zones is 50% lower than the previous year, which leads to reflection as to whether the missions of special economic zones are exhausted and whether they should be replaced, for example. through the implementation of the concept of district technology parks based on mechanisms similar to those used in zones but managed by starosts. This would further correlate with the tasks of the districts in the field of development of vocational education and would, I believe, bring better results. In addition, human resources policy would be closer to local needs. It therefore appears that the government should seek to align the conditions for doing business across the country on the basis of the rules applicable in or similar to the economic zones. The Free and Solidarnia Circle hopes to draw positive conclusions from the information submitted by the Ministry of Development and will vote in favour of the information submitted by the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u229	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you like to sign up for the questioning? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u230	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, at the end of 2015, the zones covered an area of almost 20,000. ha. As we have heard, there has been an increase of 1700 ha, while, as we all know, 11 zones have changed the size of their areas. According to the report, the total area of zones has been developed in almost 60%. This was the case in 2015, today we have almost 7 months of the new year. I wanted to ask the Minister how many such requests from the management of the zones have been received by the Ministry in the context of the enlargement of the areas. We know that zoning is not a simple process, it is hard to expect 100% In a very short period of time, many factors have contributed to this. But I'd like to know how much we have today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] such conclusions. And one last question, Minister. You've been in charge for nine months now. How many CEOs have been changed in all those zones that operate today? How many countries have you managed to change presidents, and what was your point in making these changes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u231	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about the organizational memory. I understand that the election took place on October 25th, we have other boards in the zones, but there should be some documents, some ideas and strategies. In 2015, the Łódź Zone and the Wałbrzych Zone agreed that they would rescue Turk, who is at risk of very high unemployment at the moment, because the power plant would be shut down. A special program was prepared for the decommissioning of the power plant for Turku, dedicated to the turnkey plant. This was also intended for September, the Volkswagen factory. Two zones, a Łódź with a Wałbrzych, were to form in Turku just such a dedicated plant and carry out jointly activities related to promotion of this, so that people have a job after this liquidation. Meanwhile, from the answer to my interpellation I learned now that the walbrzych zone resigned, and the Łódź zone, I was recently in Turku and I met with the president of the Łódź zone, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He doesn't know anything about this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u233	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u234	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for you about the direction of development of the zones. Will you use the development of zone clusters to increase the innovation of the Polish economy? Will there be a continuation of the previous vocational training government's co-organization of zone companies? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u235	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u236	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister: Are there now requests for extension to some areas in the existing zones and in which areas? How many applications for business permits are currently expected in the different zones? And another question: What promotional measures does the government envisage in these sub-zones and areas where there are difficulties in attracting investors? As I said before, there are, at least in my place, in Podkarpacie, subzones in which for many years no investor can be acquired. Will any increased promotional action be carried out in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u237	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u238	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This report shows that the special economic zones are holding together quite well. I have a question for the Minister because, of course, there was a change of government and I wanted to know to what extent the change in government has translated into changes in the authorities of management companies, because I have heard that there have actually been many such rotations. That's one question. Second question: Do you predict as a ministry that you will encourage new investors to invest in existing areas, which is to expand them, or will it be suggested that investors invest in new economic zones, if they were created, so as to, say, distribute these economic zones across the country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u239	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u240	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I, too, wanted to ask you a question about the changes that have taken place. The communal news is that the boards have already been listed in all companies. I wanted to ask you what were the grounds for the appeal of these boards, whether they were substantive grounds, whether they were merely related to the change of party which exercises power. I also wanted to ask, on what basis were new people appointed to these boards, whether it was on the basis of competence, whether there were any competitions, what were the results of these competitions, how many candidates were willing to fill these posts, how it looked, whether they were tested the competences of these people. This is the first part of the question. I also wanted to ask you about the Katowice zone that you have plans for, because here is the story, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that you are not able to name this board that is, so you are trying to change the statutory terms. And I would very much ask the Minister to answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u241	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a few questions. First question. Have the zones been functioning well so far? Were there any irregularities, and if so, what? Are the changes currently being made going in such a way as to improve the functioning of economic zones? And a specific question about the Katowice economic zone, I mean the Gliwice sub-zone at ul. Zagórska in Tarnowskie Góry, which is now being processed. When's the finalization? If there's a problem, I'd ask for information. What stage is this at? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u243	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Lech Kołakowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thanks to the creation of many zones, many entrepreneurs created many jobs, built their companies. Large industrial centres are concentrated in zones and capital is actually accumulated there. I wanted to ask the Minister about a possible amendment of the law in this direction, so that the zones are formed in these local governments, in quite poor, poor local governments, which cannot afford to provide land, and there is high unemployment there. Would it be possible to provide institutional support by the resort, by the government of areas with the greatest unemployment, areas from which young Poles emigrate abroad or to other parts of the country? The question concerns institutional placement of economic zones in places where there is very high unemployment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the self-government cannot afford to create the conditions necessary to create a zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u245	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The expansion of economic zones in today's reality, when they are only 10 years old, does not make economic sense anymore. It will either be, as the Member has said, the creation of economic zones throughout the country as one compact organism, or we will focus on exploiting the potential that exists. As the zones are very different, Minister, those which are the least, that is 18% , e.g. our, Krakow's, zone is already 77%, I have a question because in fact, Polish entrepreneurs lose their jobs in the long-term process of integrating land into the zone. They are Polish, local entrepreneurs who want to invest in the zone, want to invest as close as possible, while foreign entrepreneurs do not want to locate in the Krakow, Wałbrzych or Łódź zone, they choose any area that suits them. Does it exist? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you considering shortening the time of inclusion in the zones? Sometimes the inclusion of several acres in Małopolska takes up to 2 or 3 years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u247	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u248	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In the last two decades, special economic zones have been the subject of the desire of local governments, almost every fifth of the city has seen such a zone and almost every tenth of the municipality. And now the question in the context of a 10-year perspective: Will this dissipation process continue or not, on the contrary, will the emphasis be on using those locations that have not yet been used? Why is this an important question? Because in local governments and in general regional policy, in cohesion policy, we would hope that these areas of concentration of investment will be the places that will cause impact and will stimulate the local economy. The question should be clearly answered - and that is precisely the question - whether we have this precise answer, first of all, what is lacking in order to revive these empty locations, unused locations, secondly, whether it should be in the instrument of special economic zones, these sub-zones, see the mechanism to stimulate areas [[♪ The bell ♪]] Sperpherized. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u249	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mark Owowa, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'll have half a question, because many of the previous speakers have already asked about staff changes. My question is this: Did the development minister give discharge to those who left, or did he not grant discharge by exercising his right to exercise ownership functions? I ask that the Minister, who may not have this information at this time, provide adequate information about all changes in the companies, as well as the receipt, in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u251	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Special economic zones were supposed to stimulate the economy of the country, but also the economy in subregions, in local governments. Here, many Members spoke with great concern about personal changes on company boards. I would like to remind you - and this is known from the media reports - that the activities of the boards of certain companies raised a lot of doubts, for example. mentioned here high promotion costs in individual companies, etc. There is much more to these irregularities. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Were the actions of the management of the zones under control of the Supreme Audit Chamber? If not, does the Ministry foresee whether it is considering sending an application to the Supreme Audit Chamber for control of the activities [[♪ The bell ♪]] Zone management?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u253	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party doubled the duration of the special economic zones in Poland. For the first time in 2008 until 2020 and for the second time in 2013, extending their existence until 2026. Is the Government of Law and Justice also considering extending their term of office? If so, on what basis is this decision based? In addition, the Supreme Audit Chamber in its report presented in 2010 indicated that the government had no real, reliable knowledge of the cost of operating economic zones and did not assess their efficiency and efficiency. So have the NIK's recommendations and suggestions been implemented? Does the government have a comprehensive knowledge of companies managing zones and companies operating in their territory today? Will the current government policy on the functioning of economic zones change? If so, to what extent? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Has the government developed a long-term concept of special economic zones? I'm asking because there's a zone in my town, too, and that's why I'm asking. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u255	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u256	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The state and local authorities bear the costs of operating special economic zones, among others. such as corporate income tax relief, infrastructure construction costs in zones, optional costs of real estate tax exemption, losses on the purchase of the plot by an investor below its market value, as well as the provision of a special purpose grant to an investor for the planned investment. The question is: What are the main benefits for you from the operation of areas outside low-paid jobs, often on garbage contracts? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u257	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jarosław Porwich, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As we know, in Poland there are 14 special economic zones in which investors employ a total of 312 thousand. employees. The capital invested comes mainly from civilised countries such as Germany, the United States, the Netherlands, Japan and Italy. Does the Ministry of Development have any knowledge as to whether the working conditions and wages and labour relations are also civilised? And the second thread. If companies operating in economic zones operate on preferential terms - let me remind you: the total value of tax exemptions since 1998 is almost PLN 20 billion - and labour market conditions have changed and our priority is not mainly job creation, isn't it worth introducing social clauses similar to those contained in the Public Procurement Law in the area of social zones, for example, to raise low or very low standards that apply to companies that operate in special economic zones? Does the Ministry of Development, which supervises the zones, maybe, intend to [[♪ The bell ♪]] present such solutions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u259	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u260	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The economic zones, in addition to these various aspects - positive or less positive ones mentioned here - also affect a certain spatial order, and this impact is undoubtedly regulating. But I wanted to ask you about companies that operate in the economic zones, and at the same time did not take up business despite the construction of some facilities in which the business was to be carried out, but the management of these zones seemed to have postponed this activity. And the area is currently blocked, and there's no way in this place. [[♪ The bell ♪]] take up further activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u261	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Pavel Papke, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u262	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2015, the accumulated value of the invested capital amounted to nearly PLN 112 billion, i.e. an increase of more than 9.7 billion. increase by 9.5% in relation to the previous year. These figures show how important zones are for the Polish economy, but I would also like to draw attention to the social factor - this is about high employment. My question concerns the government's plans for the further operation of the zones. Will the government continue to support and stimulate the functioning and development of special economic zones? And also as a resident of Olsztyn - this is of course in Warmia-Mazury Voivodeship - I would like to ask especially about plans for development of Warmia-Mazury special economic zone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u263	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Let me remind you that the idea of creating special economic zones was to help demote areas, including. located in former popegeerian areas, which were left to themselves. Why is the map of zones currently being analysed, most of the investments are located in the vicinity of medium and large Polish cities? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u265	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! The question is, I hope we don't get out of here before the traditional hours of the Sejm's work, but we'll try, I'll try. I will also ask questions about the report that appeared in the speeches, including in the first part of your speeches. Promotional expenses. This increase recorded in relation to last year is indeed being analysed at the moment, and this is also - referring to the many questions that have been raised, including changes, analysis and efficiency of the activities of zones or certain irregularities - is indeed one of the reasons why, as we all know, the CBA has taken an interest in this activity. The conclusions and results of these searches are not yet known, but we will deliver them as soon as we know them. The question of changes in the boards, which appear repeatedly, asked by ladies and gentlemen of Members. Indeed, there have been changes with regard to 11 boards. Let me remind you that this is at the disposal of the owner's supervision, this is the responsibility of the Minister responsible for economic affairs. From where and why, and for what reasons, we have talked about this many times. After twenty-six years of operation of special economic zones - and this has also occurred in several speeches from the Sejm tribune - a certain revision of the functioning of the zones needs to be carried out. What else were these zones at the beginning, when they were created and when the essence was to attract every workplace, and it was very important. Today not only the number of jobs is important, but also their quality, so perhaps we should also apply other criteria of attraction. This was also the case in a few of your statements. This is also why a developmental revision is planned. If you ask about quality and qualifications, each new person on the boards has had a job interview, examination of competence and management capacity. I would like to give you an example of a change of persons: a person who had a high position in a Swiss investment bank replaced a person who, before coming to manage the zone, performed auxiliary and secretarial functions in the public administration. Therefore, please answer the question of whether this is a change for the worse or for the better, and these are not individual cases. So these are these kinds of staff changes. If you wish, I can provide the CVs of all those currently managing in special economic zones. I think that in terms of competence, we have nothing to be ashamed of, the competences are high, and we will be able to assess the way we operate, I think, in a year's time when we will report on the activities of special economic zones. A plan for responsible development and special economic zones. A question has been asked many times about clustering or concentrating a certain type of investment. The Responsible Development Plan has repeatedly identified elements of concentration in certain sectors, those sectors that are already high in the value-added chain. As far as the sectors that are strongly present in the regions concerned are concerned, we want zones to only strengthen this phenomenon. In some of them this phenomenon is actually realized in a natural way, in the said areas of south-eastern Poland or in the repeatedly mentioned Katowice zone. Notabene - here's a remark about attempts to change - there were no attempts to change or, as you pointed out, inefficient achievements. No, that's where we didn't change our position as president of the Special Economic Zone. We are working together on a strategy, a new zone policy, also with the President of the Katowice Special Economic Zone. The result of this good cooperation with all zones is also the amendment we have made to the Public Procurement Law, which tightens the conditions for the application of the Public Procurement Law by companies managing special economic zones. There have been many questions about land use. Indeed, the average use rate is less than 60%, and there are also areas like you mentioned: a post area with an average of less than 50%. What does that tell you? And here I answer the many questions that have been asked about what kind of instruments we want to use and why, whether we want to expand the zones or not, aim to make maximum use of them. Indeed, when we spoke to the new management boards, we asked them to provide full information on undeveloped areas and what is the reason for not developing them. Is there a lack of e.g. infrastructure, because it is not always the geographical location on the map of zones, the place on the map of Poland, and the sign that this is a special economic zone, will cause, as with the touch of a magic wand, the emergence of investors there, because if there is no road, railway or any other infrastructure, the designation of a place does not matter. I will not agree with one of the Members who said that it does not matter whether he comes to Wałbrzych, Wrocław or Suwałk for foreign investors. We know very well that this is of great importance. Foreign investors choose the location for their investments in terms of not only the intensity of public aid, but also the attractiveness of the place where potential investors will come to live and live. Thus there are still three or four most attractive investment locations on the map of Poland. We would like to change this imbalance, also creating other incentives to not so much move investments as attract less attractive places. Turning to the issue of land use: this growth you have been asking about is often the result not only of joining and not using other areas in 2014. As we know, such procedures often took place, the expansion of zones was often a gift to local authorities only in order to expand the zone without the need to attract investment. On the other hand, to a large extent, in most zones, these unused areas are due to the fact that the areas incorporated into the zones many years ago are practically non-investmental today. Why? Because they are located along the border strip or under a large electrical traction. One of your fellow Members asked about the Warmia-Mazury zone. The Warmia and Mazury zone has a rather high degree of non-use, in this zone most of the land is unused, these are non-investment land. The next question concerned the number of requests for enlargement. I'm sorry, I've already answered that question on the committee, and I don't have that table on me today. At the moment, this is twenty-six proposals, because in some zones it is not one proposal, including more than half of them being proposals, whose enlargement lasts 2.5 years. I, when I came to the ministry, said that if this administrative procedure lasts more than six months, it just doesn't make sense, that means we keep seven floors of administration in an incomprehensible way for me. At the moment we have set ourselves such goals, we are conducting our own internal procedural audit, where there is a problem. Surely one of these problems is the question of the availability of geodetic data by the main surveyor of the country. Furthermore, the amendment introduced by the Law on the Re-sharing of Public Data, the Act adopted by the Sejm in June this year, at the last moment of the legislative process, by the main surveyor who excluded geodesia from the obligation to make this re-sharing available, also has a major impact on the length of this procedure. The thickness and density of the binder for enlargement processes mostly concerns the transmission of geodetic maps and revisions on geodetic maps. Although the main surveyor of the country spent over PLN 50 million for this purpose in the last 8 years, this data is not available and this flow of information is not as... That's an excellent extension of the procedure. We set ourselves the goal of wanting to do this as soon as possible, because this is a process... As I say, in the case of zones, this is one of the main reasons why this process takes so long. However, the availability of geodetic data in general, especially if collected for public money, seems fundamental to the development of the economy and in other areas for re-marketing. So that the acceleration of these processes I put myself, as the person who oversees the special economic zones, as a personal point of honor. Clusters and education - this is what the Member asked here. As far as clusters are concerned, I have already answered that question. At the moment we are also in the process of identifying the so-called. national key clusters. We hope that some of the zones will also be in these clusters. Just qualifying for such a category, as we know, also offers some opportunities to finance investments from special programmes, from the Operational Programme of Intelligent Development. On the other hand, as far as education is concerned, I also answered this question at the committee meeting. In our opinion... We are currently reforming vocational education in such a way that vocational education responds to the real needs of the market. That's one thing. Secondly, to ensure that good, high-quality vocational education, with special professional qualifications after graduation, is as attractive a career path as an academic career. On the other hand, it does not seem appropriate to allocate this task to special zones in a special way as a professional education, which does not mean that it cannot happen in a special area. With regard to such practices mentioned by the Member - just again south-eastern Poland, where we have a very strong clustering, good cooperation with regional government, building vocational classes and schools, cooperation with vocational schools - we are very much in favour of not giving this to constitutionally, statutory special economic zones. Will there be new investments and new enlargements in the perspective of 2026? I hope that soon I will be pleased to present to you the assumptions of the so-called. the new zone policy and their first proposals. We've been analyzing what's going on with our neighbors. As for the zone instrument, on the one hand, as you say, it would be best to transform the whole of Poland into a special economic zone, and I hope that, thanks to other legislative changes concerning the business concessions, we will come closer to this ideal, but at the same time, looking at the conditions and knowing that it is not possible in a simple way, we must observe - we are not an island, we know that we are operating in a certain economic area, very clearly dependent - we need to look at what is happening with our neighbours and what kind of attracting investment they are applying. We are looking at our southern neighbours and the Baltic countries. There the application of public intensity is not in many cases a zone mechanism such as in Poland, i.e. in geographically closed territories, but it is flexible, adapted to data. If an area meets certain conditions that meet the criteria for granting public aid, this public aid is simply dedicated and extended there, it is not closed temporarily. Recently adopted in the Baltic States, aid measures already exist today, and it is assumed that in the case of investments which are currently being received and provided with public aid, it is known for how long it is being adopted, i.e. there is no mechanism to close public aid until 2025, only naturally it is extended, until 2030, 2035, so that the investor has predictable conditions. And we also want to ensure such predictable conditions. This is for this magical year 2026, which today means a certain horizon of operation. This law will have to change, because already today, referring to the first information I told you about the criteria, whether today's first criterion should be the number of jobs created... This is the case, ladies and gentlemen, whether we like it or not: the industry is changing, digitising and the number of jobs is not increasing, and it is often decreasing, although production volumes are not decreasing, and there is such geographical closure in the zones. We are dealing with situations today that we have investors who are in two special zones and therefore operate on the basis of two zone permits granted in these two zones, and want to restructure their production by moving part from one zone to the other. Today, in the light of this bill, it is impossible. That is, it is not possible to transfer public aid granted on the basis of a zone permit in one zone to another. And despite the sincere desire, understanding of needs and unwillingness to eliminate jobs, it is not possible under applicable law. This requires thinking at the moment, which is a greater and smaller value, whether a law in this area should not, for example. be amended. Therefore, new investments and new enlargements are possible, especially since we have adopted such a principle and in many cases these new proposals appear to be not progressive. Zone management doesn't say: Let's expand it in this area, because it's weak here, or maybe, how we expand, how public investment will appear there, e.g. The road, the infrastructure, that's when the investor shows up. They are most often already, you can say, the answer, i.e. the investor is already standing at the door and then the zone submits an application. And this is, as it seems, a good procedure, but, going back to the length of the process, it must be said that it is also very, very difficult. We're in a transformation moment. He's not the most comfortable one, and I'd like it to look better myself, but we're trying to change it, shorten the process so that a really good investor who shows that he's not just about the quantity, but also about the quality of these jobs... Today we say that the innovation criterion has been enshrined in the Public Procurement Law as one on the basis of which the choice of this implementation should also be preferred, and we should also apply this criterion to special economic zones. Although I am not in favour of applying unitary solutions for every place, because as we think about Suwałki and the Suwałki Special Economic Zone, we can see that there still the criterion of the workplace has a different importance than in the Katowice or Wałbrzych zone, where investors really have to fight over employees. [[How many new proposals are there? What stage are they at?]] When it comes to the process of dispersing zones and the question of districtisation, the regulation, I think I have partially answered them. Indeed, if, according to today's assumptions, the Tarnobrzeg zone has investments under Wałbrzych, it is incomprehensible to me. I've been analyzing exactly where these sources came from, and we know that this was due to the fact that for example. There are two zones in one city. Thus, in the case of the Starachowice and Tarnobrzeg zones again, there are two zones in one city that work together or compete with each other. This seems to be an unhealthy situation. That's why it's not an author's idea here, because they've been talking to zone management, they've been talking in zones, and I know that these kinds of postulates have come up a long time ago. Sometimes it was simply because one zone was much worse managed, so the investor came to the other, asking for an extension in a place where it did not work, just because it was easier to deal with the managers. So that here there was no other justification than that, as far as such dispersal is concerned. Now, back to this point about, for example, zone permits dedicated locally, I would like to say that some kind of possibility of changing or moving an investor from one place to another should probably be allowed. A question has been asked concerning discharge. No discharge was granted in one of the zones. Of course, I can give you reasons and reasons. You asked me why he wasn't given and what the charges were. I've said many times that I've tried not to judge my predecessors, and I've tried to avoid it. In the case of several special economic zones, we have OLAF's proceedings, namely anti-corruption proceedings. This procedure was not initiated by the Government of the United Rights, it is the European Commission's procedure relating to the non-application of Public Procurement Law by the Boards, not only to the application of national measures or to those own companies, but also to the application of European measures. In one of the zones, this procedure was particularly gross and, as I said, it concerned corruption issues. Detailed explanations, if you are interested, of course I can send them in writing. This procedure is ongoing. I will now refer to the comments on the 2012 NIK report mentioned here in terms of efficiency, intensity of public aid and economic impact. Indeed, the 2012 report indicated that the expenditures incurred, not only directly incurred, investment but also those resulting from income tax reductions, are indeed disproportionate, uneven, i.e. The intensity here is very high and the profit is relatively small. We've been analyzing this, but actually this econometric model isn't ready. We eat reports that send out special economic zones. Indeed, this disproportion and what we are working on is just like Mr... Thank you for the attention of one of your fellow Members on this clear presentation of the criteria, i.e. It is the permissible intensity of public aid and the expected final effect. If it's not straight... We already know that this is not just about the impact directly from income tax, but also about jobs and finally the impact from these taxes later, indirect taxes that are still being paid. We are working on this right now, and this 2012 NIK report is such an instructional reading for me on what a special economic zone is for. This is also partly the answer to the question of costs and benefits when it comes to special zones. And here, to be perfectly honest, it is one thing to say that the mathematical effect is one thing, but the second effect is also important if we look at several of these zones, especially if we look at the Katowice Special Economic Zone mentioned here many times, which filled a significant gap at the time of the restructuring of the mining sector. She appeared and actually was able to attract such an industry, which was simply not in Poland. The automotive industry - if we say it develops best in zones, remember that it is not the Polish industry, that is, we attract investments that are not really in Poland. And when we look at these production facilities, it's also a certain diffusion of knowledge that's taking place. We are looking at co-operation facilities, because co-operatives are often just like the one zone I mentioned, but also Podkarpacie and the Mielecka zone... We are looking at large, large, global players - in the case of Mielec - aviation sector and co-operatives who are... There are more than 100 companies already at the moment absolutely Polish, producing in a very specialized way, in very specialized and advanced processes components or parts, so it is difficult not to measure and appreciate this value as well. This value, of course, we see. The question of working relationships, what are they in the zone? I remind you that every company, every company that obtains a zone permit, has to determine and then report how many people have been employed. Practice is what we see. Large production companies, we're talking about these big production companies, and this was also mentioned... Despite the capital and the number of companies, the biggest investments are Polish companies, the biggest investments are investments of global companies, global companies. These jobs are much better paid than those that are outside the zone, which is also often pointed out in these several areas as a difficulty, because if a zone is expanding in an area where some Polish production plants are still operating, the emergence of the zone usually leads to the fact that large, global plants located in the zone, offering 200, 300, 400 PLN higher net salaries, draw people from the labour market, but not those from labour offices, unemployed, only those from establishments that are already in place. So that this also causes some imbalance in the labour market and creates more difficult conditions for those outside the zone. This is also a consequence of the activities of special economic zones - perhaps not the most advantageous there. So the balance sheet, in summary, is not unambiguously everywhere, so that if we have a scale of up to 20, they are all positive at 20 points. The majority, on the other hand, must certainly be regarded as a positive result of the activity. I think we'll agree that after these 25 years of activity we just need to change the vectors a little bit and maybe set some other criteria, analyze the shortcomings that we all see, and make them work for a little bit of other economic goals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u267	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Owa still wants to speak as rapporteur for the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u268	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Just a few more words in parentheses to fill in. It must be said that today it is impossible to adapt the map of companies managing zones to the geographic agreement. At another time, a bill was made. It must be said that the investor often chose the area in which he worked for the new investment. And this grid, if we look at it today, just functions so that in each voivodeship at least a few companies managing zones have their subzones. Is it possible in every municipality? Mr President, it is not possible in every municipality that this would be absolutely unencouraged... [[All over the country.]] But maybe it's worth fighting over the county. Why is that? In order to create a zone, however, you need to make a huge effort. The municipalities were competing. Those who wanted to have a special economic zone had no problem with it, but had to invest in infrastructure, had to make changes to the spatial planning plan and carry out some of the investments that trigger, so to speak, the possibility of functioning. There's probably a possibility. At least when it comes to Małopolska, I remember perfectly well that those who applied... There has never been any obstruction by the Ministry of Economy, or even more so by the companies that managed the zones to extend it. Thank you for this declaration that this will be reduced to six months in the Ministry, because it has to be said that the process has been delayed not at the stage of preparation of the proposal, but often at the stage of agreement with the Ministry on the scope of enlargement. It was the most common procedure and these applications actually often lay down, and that you could, it could, because the year 2014 showed very clearly that all the extensions ended in the first half of the year and all the permits that were ready were simply granted. And a word about promotional expenses. Promotional expenditure in these 14 zones is from 90,000. PLN to 1350 thousand for individual zones. This increase is not scary, sir, that is 6%. It's worth remembering. I can say that many of these projects were probably related to the fact that the financial perspective period was over, that the projects were simply closed. Whenever projects are closed, these investment expenditures are the biggest. And finally, in my opinion, the CBA is to detect crimes, not to investigate. I think that's what we have other actors for.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u269	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u270	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Special economic zones in the coming years will be important instruments to support our investments. Therefore, it is necessary to maintain the attractiveness of special economic zones in order to provide a real incentive for further investment locations in Poland, in particular in the manufacturing sector. If it hadn't been for them, the unemployment rate would have been significantly higher in many counties. Therefore, I have the following questions: Does the government expect to expand to new special economic zones in the near future? Do the Ministry know what industries are planning to increase their investment in the SEZ in the coming years?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u271	The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development requests the adoption of information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 20. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 mins 17 hrs. 20]] I'm reopening the session. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the law on supporting family and foster care, the Social Assistance Act and the Act on amending the law on local government and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Communication Commission with Poles abroad on draft resolutions on: - establishing on 11 July the Day of Remembrance of Poles - victims of genocide by the OUN-UPA on the Eastern Ends of the Second Republic, - pay tribute to victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Republic of Poland in 1939-1945 (prints no. 625, 640 and 723). I ask Mr Michał Dworczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u272	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday, two committees met at a joint meeting: the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad and the Committee on Culture and Media, and worked on the texts of two draft resolutions. In accordance with the decision of the Joint Committees, these projects have been merged into a single project, where the text of Law and Justice is the leading text. What I would like to say before I recommend to the High House that this resolution be adopted is a few words about the background that accompanies the adoption of this resolution. We know that this resolution concerns very dramatic events from the period of World War II, from the time when the Polish nation was particularly hard experienced by the two largest totalitarianisms of the 20th century. - German and Soviet. But also we must not forget our compatriots in the Second Republic of Poland, who have been particularly hard experienced by the cruel crimes committed by Ukrainian nationalists. It was an extremely painful experience, because the perpetrators of these crimes have been living next to their Polish neighbours Ukrainian neighbours for centuries. These crimes, which must be described as genocide by historians, have been silenced for many, many years. The case of this genocide carried out by Ukrainian nationalists, especially from the Ukrainian Nationalist Organization, the Ukrainian Insurgent Army, the SS Galizien and other collaborating Ukrainian formations, after 1989 as a result of misunderstood political correctness, was also swept under the carpet, in colloquially speaking, a taboo theme was made of this drama. Today, as the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, we are undertaking, or actually finalizing, work on a legal act to pay tribute to the murdered and establish a national day of commemoration of the victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Polish Republic. And it seems that a few questions should be asked at this point: Is it really genocide? Do we need a holiday like this? Are we not going to hurt our neighbours in Ukraine who are fighting Russian aggression in the east of the country? Contrary to appearances, the answers to these questions are relatively simple, because in Poland there is no serious historian who would question the classification of the events described as crimes of genocide, i.e. an informed, planned action aimed at destroying a particular national group. Just quote the opinions of prosecutors and historians of IPN included in the publication of the crime of the past. Developments and materials of IPN prosecutors in volume II. There was an in-depth justification for the classification of this crime. Besides, these examples could be multiplied. But also there is no need to reach out to the materials of the Institute of National Remembrance, just take a bit of trouble and read the works of nationalist ideologists from the interwar period, such as Doncow and Mikhail Kołodziński. The latter, a member of the highest authorities of the Ukrainian Nationalist Organizations, wrote in the document of the Ukrainian military doctrine as follows: The Polish element, which will resist actively, must be fought and the rest must be terrorized and forced to flee for the Vistula. Because we cannot allow the Polish element to live here next to the Ukrainians after the victory. It must be remembered that the more hostile the element dies during the uprising, the easier it will be to build a Ukrainian country. And we can read further in this document: In view of the hostile element one must show such cruelty at the time of the uprising, so that another tenth generation is afraid to even look towards Ukraine. So the fact of genocide is not open to discussion. We should not be afraid to use this term, we should not be subject to political correctness. I think that in the name of honesty towards victims, but also in spite of appearances, which I will talk about later, for the sake of the Ukrainians themselves, we should openly call these events by name. Question two: Do we need such a celebration, which will be celebrated on July 11th, July 11th, that is, every year on the anniversary of the so-called festival. Bloody Sunday, when nearly 100 villages were attacked by Ukrainian nationalists? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I understand that he will be able to speak during the discussion. Now I'd be obliged if you'd let me finish. At that time several thousand Poles living in those towns were killed. Unfortunately, it must be said that the Greek Catholic clergy did not hold back, and sometimes even encouraged nationalist troops to commit these cruel crimes. But it must also be said, and it must be remembered, that as long as the CNS and UPA had forty-several thousand people, there were several million Ukrainians living there, and most of these Ukrainians were not involved in these murders. And this must be remembered, this must be emphasized, we must also mention the role of those who saved Poles, and such people are not so little in spite of appearances. The Institute of National Remembrance even published a publication in which names, examples of such heroic attitudes, when Ukrainians rescued their Polish neighbours, are quoted. But we need such a celebration, such a commemoration is needed - not to bear hatred in our hearts, but to honor our victims with dignity and to preserve the memory of these dramatic events, so that no more such situation will ever happen again. And the third question is, aren't we hurting our neighbours in Ukraine who are fighting Russian aggression in the east of the country in Donbasa? Do we not support Russian propaganda, because sometimes you can hear such accusations that those people who raise the subject of genocide carried out in Volhynia and in the South-East Ends of the Second Republic, enter into the Russian narrative. Poland and Poles support Ukraine, support the fight of Ukraine, which defends itself against Russian assault, both materially and financially. Since the first days of the Polish Dignity Revolution there has been aid - this is something to be remembered - and this is still the case, but supporting neighbours in the fight for independence does not rule out dialogue based on truth. Supporting Ukraine does not mean consent to the glorifying of murderers and troops responsible for the genocide. This also does not mean silence in a situation where the memory of the victims is Kalana, and unfortunately today we are dealing with a situation in which a historical policy is being conducted in Ukraine, which can be described in the simplest way, that based on the ethos of the CNS and UPA is being built modern national identity. In fact, by a relatively small group of ideologists and politicians, Ukrainian society is cheated because it is presented to them a crooked picture of history, a crooked picture of how UPA worked, a lying picture of what the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists really was. And paradoxically I can even understand the assumptions, although of course I do not accept them, but I can understand the assumptions of those ideologists who want to mobilize society to fight the Russian attack that Ukraine is struggling with today. Paradoxically, this idea of mobilizing society may work in the short term, but in the long term it will be harmful primarily for Ukraine itself, because on the glory of evil, nothing can be built on a lie. I think it is worth saying here that our debate in the Polish Parliament - because we have been debating for a long time, we have been talking about the need to commemorate the victims of genocide - this debate, these discussions have already produced one positive effect. Of course, this dialogue is not pleasant, although it is very necessary, it is not pleasant to us in Poland, nor is it pleasant to Ukrainians who have to stand in the truth, but in my opinion it will bring good fruit in the long term. What is already good, what can now be seen, is the first time in Ukraine in years we are dealing with a situation in which the discussion between historians and Ukrainian politicians has started, who are asking questions, discussing between themselves, discussing whether the current historical policy is certainly a good idea, or whether, as a consequence, a serious wall of resentment will not arise in a few years' time, a wall of distance that will divide Poles and Ukrainians. I believe that the more time it takes, the longer this dialogue lasts, the more reflection it will be. I believe that the adoption of this resolution by the Polish Sejm will not only give up... not only in this way we will pay tribute to the victims, which is our primary task, but we will also encourage our neighbours to reflect, and this reflection and this dialogue after some time will lead to the fact that such situations with which we are meeting today, that Roman Shuchewycz, Stepan Bandera and Kly Sawur have their next monuments, the next streets, will be less and less, and in the end we will not have to deal with them at all. I think it is also worth mentioning that the joint committees have adopted this proposal almost unanimously, using the amendments tabled by all the clubs - and by the Polish People's Party - and by the Civic Platform, I do not remember whether there were modern amendments, but today is the moment for us to accept them. In any event, in the final vote on the text of the draft, the committee was practically unanimous, one abstention. I think it's very important. I also hope that the High House will be unanimous in the vote on this project. On behalf of the committee, I would like to ask the High House to adopt this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u273	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I wanted to inform the High House that Fr Zdzisław Wojciechowski and his family are listening to our deliberations, so that I greet my father warmly. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I ask Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the parliamentary draft resolution on tribute to victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on citizens of the Second Republic of Poland in the years 1943-1945, print No 723. Combined Commissions: Culture and Media and Communications with Poles abroad after the first readings of draft resolutions from print No 625 and 640 on 21 June 2016 and the burning of these projects on 19 July, adopted a joint project recommending its adoption to the High House. Law and Justice already in 2013 prepared a draft resolution aimed at commemorating those tragic events and paying tribute to the brutally murdered Poles in the Kresa II of the Republic, as well as, equally important, paying tribute to their families by restoring the historical memory of those events and naming this crime, the massacre of Volyn, genocide. This project was rejected by the Civic Platform and the Palikot Movement. Murder over 100,000. Poles in Volyn and Eastern Małopolska as part of the genocide carried out by Ukrainian nationalists, among others. with the CNS and UPA was undoubtedly a huge blow to the Polish nation. The truth about those events, about the extermination of Polish families, as well as the truth about Katyn's crime for years was a forbidden truth. The conspiracy of silence imposed by communist censorship would permanently wipe her out of national consciousness. Memory and historical truth have always been one of the priorities of Law and Justice. It is a moral obligation of generations to commemorate these events, without which it is impossible to continue building and cultivating national identity. Sleep. President Lech Kaczyński at the 70th anniversary of Katyn's crime was to say: "It is impossible to build a lasting relationship on a lie. Lying divides people and nations. It brings hate and anger. That's why we need the truth. The rations aren't spread evenly, those who fight for freedom are right. We Christians know this well: the truth, even the most painful, liberates. It connects. It brings justice. It shows the way to reconciliation. Today, he will remember those words and aware of the duty we bear, we recall a true picture of those tragic events, which, like the Katyn crime or crimes against the Polish nation carried out by Nazi Germany during World War II, deserve to be called genocide. The culmination of the criminal activity of Ukrainian nationalists, known by historians as the Volyn massacre, took place on 11 July 1943, which is why it is so important to pay tribute to the Kresów. As the resolution states, the victims of the crimes committed in the 1940s by Ukrainian nationalists have not yet been properly commemorated, and mass murders have not been named according to the truth by the historical genocide. With this resolution we pay tribute to the brutally murdered Poles, but also to representatives of other nationalities, including Ukrainians who died, helping our countrymen. Only common recognition of historical truth, as well as understanding and reconciliation, can ensure peace for future generations, so important in the context of Ukraine's struggle to preserve territorial integrity today. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Faced with moral expectations and the need for elementary social justice, the Law and Justice Club will support the proposed draft resolution by the High House, while calling for the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of Victims of Genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Republic of Poland on 11 July. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u275	Thank you, Member. And I ask you to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Marcin Święcicki's Civic Platform. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, in the second reading, we are considering a draft resolution on the commemoration of victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists during World War II, prepared by PSL and PiS. This project contains very important provisions, namely to establish a day of memory of the victims, as well as, what is extremely important for the victims, to find the remains of all buried persons, to carry out the necessary exhumations, to make burials, to mark and commemorate all these places of the Volyn tragedy, because very many of them are not even marked in any way. It is necessary to draw up a list of victims on both sides of this conflict, as complete as possible. There is also a need to support the work of historians, because many facts are still unknown, open the state archives to the end. In a word, the resolution contains many valid and necessary requests and appeals. At the same time, such a resolution cannot be considered without taking into account the context in which we take it, because sometimes the most noble intentions and legitimate appeals can also have the opposite effect. What is the context? First of all, it is a one-sided resolution, i.e., we also mention Ukrainian victims there, but above all we are talking about Polish victims. Meanwhile, we have a long series of joint speeches and presidents, starting with Alexander Kwasniewski, through the dead. Lech Kaczyński, after Bronisław Komorowski, who together commemorated the victims, worshiped these victims, jointly asked forgiveness, and priests of the Polish Roman Catholic Church and the Greek Catholic Church with calls for reconciliation and mutual forgiveness. Secondly, we need to realise how different historical awareness is in Poland and Ukraine. In Poland, UPA is clearly associated with the Volyn slaughter, while in Ukraine UPA today is associated with something else, it is associated with fighting for free Ukraine, fighting against Germany, fighting against Soviet Russia. These fights continued until 1954. If today the UPA is worshiped or worshiped by its leaders, it is not because they fought and murdered Poles, but because they fought, hopeless, often tragic fight for free, independent Ukraine, without success. There are many Ukrainians who do not even know about the crimes in Poles. Thirdly, let us remember that the historical reconciliation between Poles and Ukrainians took place to a large extent. The two Majdans, where the Poles actively supported the Ukrainian struggle for sovereignty and freedom, bear witness to this countless agreements and cooperation between local governments, foundations, Polish and Ukrainian universities, testify to the fact that Poles have been perceived by Ukrainians for years as their greatest friends and lawyers in the European Union. We must also make sure that this does not change so that the Ukrainians do not find other friends, and Poles do not start treating them in any other way. Finally, the last gestures made in this matter must be taken into account. Namely, President Petro Poroszenko, being at the NATO summit in Warsaw, laid a wreath under the monument to the victims of the Volyn crime and kneeled there. Moreover, which is also very important in the context of our efforts, has tabled amendments to the historical Ukrainian laws, in which there was a ban on criticising UPA. He has tabled two amendments to these laws - one such as to remove this ban, and the other as not to worship heroes who are responsible for mass crimes on civilians. These amendments are very important, their adoption, Poland has sought to do so, so it is important that they are adopted. I would also like to say that to the Polish Parliament, Mr Dworczyk and Deputy Marshal Terletki, who co-chaired and the Polish-Ukrainian Parliamentary Group, and the Polish-Ukrainian parliamentary assembly, have received proposals for a joint statement by the Supreme Council, the Sejm and the Senate on Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation from their counterparts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the Ukrainian side. This joint statement, which has been received in recent weeks, has not been considered by us, we have not gotten acquainted with it maybe well, maybe it is not very good either. So what I'm saying is that politicians through reckless steps, some kind of, I'd say, fight for minority votes... [[What minority?]] ...or didn't some internal gameplay cause the opposite effects to the desired, so that they wouldn't conflict the nations...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u277	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u278	...which are already in this reconciliation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u279	I'm sorry, but it's time...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u280	One last sentence, then, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, I appeal to the High House, I call on Members to also proceed as soon as possible with the second resolution which our committee has discussed in recent days and which, after first reading, was addressed by a majority to the subcommittee, namely the resolution on the Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation, which deals more widely with all these aspects of reconciliation which took place...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u281	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u282	...which should be continued, because this is how we're going to show that we care...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u283	Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u284	...on this reconciliation, and we want this process to be as bilateral as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u285	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the Member... [[And I propose an amendment, Mr President...]] Oh, there you go. [[...Mr. Marshal, for this project, one supplementary sentence.]] Unfortunately, that changes things. I ask the floor of Wojciech Bakun, the Kukiz Posel Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The need to establish July 11th National Remembrance Day of the Victims of Genocide is not open to discussion. Cartoonists have been really fighting for many years, and for 27 years since the political system ceased to pose a threat to them, they have expressed their position loudly and clearly. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, for 27 years, we have failed to establish July 11 a celebration commemorating the victims of this genocide. We couldn't name what happened in the '40s. In the 20th century, it was not possible to call this crime genocide. For 27 years governments have remained deaf to demands or to a large social group - in Poland it is estimated that people associated with Kresów or from Kresów are about 6 million people. The only initiatives that emerged in connection with the commemoration of this slaughter were merely temporary commemoration in the form of a resolution, or significantly distorted the message and character of this commemoration. It should be mentioned, for example, - here to Mr Święcicki - the Civic Platform project, this verbal monster that you have used: ethnic cleansings of genocide. It's kind of like... Maybe I'll refrain from commenting. I think it's a disgrace to this House, a disgrace to all previous governments. This year the situation has changed, partly thanks to Law and Justice, partly thanks to the Kukiz club15, partly thanks to the Polish People's Party. The three groups in the Sejm, mentioned earlier, but also some members of the other groups... not all the other groups, but there are members in those groups who also support the need to commemorate these victims. Two draft laws and two draft resolutions appeared. Two resolutions and one law contain the word "genocide." And that should be emphasized, this is a significant advance on what we had in previous years. Finally, we called this crime genocide and it sounded many times out of the MPs' mouth, in fact, all political options. The discussion is currently on the basis of the type of document on which this day will be established. At the moment we are proceeding with a resolution, but I note that the position of the Kukiz club15 from the beginning is clear. The national day of memory of the victims of genocide by the CNS and UPA on citizens living in Eastern Kresa II of the Republic should be established by law. Unfortunately, despite enough time - I would like to remind you: the draft laws on this matter were submitted and in February, and in March - there was no political will for such a celebration to appear on the calendar this year. As can be seen at this meeting, if there is a political will, such a celebration can be established within a few consecutive days of the sitting. All the more reason why I do not understand the interpretation of some of the members of the PIS that we did not have enough time to establish such a day earlier. I would like to remind you that the projects have been in the so-called three to four months. Seym freezer. To justify this, yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, we had a meeting between the Communications Commission and Poles abroad and the Culture and Communications Committee. We were able to discuss the whole project, make appropriate amendments. Today we have a committee report, a second reading, probably by the end of this meeting we will be able to establish this day. It's too bad it wasn't two weeks ago, like we brought in and asked for during the current information. It is even more a pity that the bill could not be transposed, because it would be in full fulfillment of the expectations of the Kresowiaks. That's too bad. Although as a club we are not fully satisfied with this development of the case and we will continue to stand in our position, we are ready to support the draft resolution at the moment. Of course, we feel a little unsatisfied, but it's July 11th, not like we were just worried it would be some imaginary holiday on September 17th. We have the word "human murder," and the only thing we have reservations about, and these are serious reservations, is that it is a draft resolution, not a bill. We believe that the Kresowns deserve more than a branded concern for their cause. They deserve this holiday established by law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] By the way, I wanted to make two amendments, because, unfortunately, here, the request to the rapporteur - a project that we received after the committee's work - was slightly different from what we had recited. A few words left... maybe some editorial discrepancy, but we didn't think so. These are two amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u287	Well, then, sir, just put them together and we'll move on to the next...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u288	Sure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u289	Thank you kindly. And please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is the duty of every national community to cultivate the memory of great moments in its history and the dramas and tragedies that have become the participation of previous generations, such as the murder by the Ukrainian Uprising Army and the support of the Ukrainian population of tens of thousands of Poles in Volhynia, East Małopolska and Lublin. For this memory the Third Rzeczpospolita has done a lot, historians have examined the archives, thousands of witness reports have appeared, in Warsaw there is a monument to the victims of the Volyn crime, monuments and obelisks erected in many other towns. In the Institute of National Remembrance, dozens of investigations were carried out or are still being conducted regarding the murder of the population of Polish villages. The tributes of the victims are given by the presidents, the government, parliament, in the autumn the film by Wojciech Smarzowski will enter the cinema screens. Poland remembers Poles murdered in Volyn and other lands of the Eastern Republic. He honors their memory and will do all he can to keep it from disappearing and that every victim may find even a symbolic burial. The problem that we are debating today is not just a tribute to Polish victims, because it is the authorities of the Polish state that do it. The problem is that memory is overworked so that these tragedies of the past will never happen again, so that nationalism, chauvinism and crime will never become part of national policies and organizations. This is what the founding fathers of a united Europe learned from the 1930s and 1940s. And the European Union was built on this foundation. Not to forget anything from the past, but to work for the future - this is the foundation of the French-German alliance, at the heart of which was the process of reconciliation between hostile peoples throughout the centuries. And that's the approach we've taken. us, Poles, in relations with the Germans. This process began with the letter of Polish bishops to German bishops in December 1965. It was continued by the democratic opposition and the authorities of free Poland. Thanks to this, there are few who question that reconciliation with Germany has become a fact and that on this foundation we have built our position in the European Union. The Catholic Church has been working on such reconciliation with the Ukrainians for nearly 40 years, this is the goal set before the episcopate and the whole community of the faithful John Paul II, who in a special letter on the 60th anniversary of the anti-Polish ethnic cleansing in Volhynia addressed our nations: since God has forgiven us in Christ, it is necessary that believers be able to forgive one another the harm they have suffered and ask for forgiveness of their own faults, and thus contribute to building a world in which life, justice, consent and peace are respected. In this spirit, episcopates of Poland and Ukraine issued a joint pastoral letter in 2005, and in 2013 they signed a declaration on the 70th anniversary of the crime in Volyn. The churches also reminded us of this message this year, when the discussion on how to commemorate the victims of this crime broke out with new intensity. Despite the popular opinion of Volyn today, neither the democratic opposition of the 1970s and 1980s nor the authorities of the Third Republic have forgotten. 14 years ago in Porytsk, which today is called Pawliwka, the presidents Alexander Kwasniewski and Leonid Kuczma opened a cemetery of murdered Poles. They thought that Poles and Ukrainians could remember together and pay tribute to their victims. Their work was continued by the presidents Lech Kaczyński and Viktor Juszczenko. Several days ago President Poroszenko laid a wreath under the Warsaw monument of the Volyn crime and kneeled before it. He also reported an amendment to the Act, which does not include the status of a fighter for Ukraine's independence of persons whose actions were classified as a crime against humanity. Previously Ukrainian politicians, among others, asked for forgiveness from Poles. Nadia Sawchenko, as well as church leaders and intellectuals. Thus, the process of reconciliation between Poles and Ukrainians can be built on a solid foundation and it is worth to continue this work that our predecessors started. High Izbo! Europe is experiencing a sharp turn in its latest history. Terrorist attacks are shocking to individual countries, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Destroying the sense of security and confidence in the future of millions of people. As a result, fear of strangers, xenophobia and nationalism is growing. We are concerned about similar phenomena in our country and in our neighbours, including Ukraine. Our concern should be discussed openly with the Ukrainian authorities and it is good that this is what is happening. At the same time, however, we should not forget that Ukraine is at war with Russia and for more than two years...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u291	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u292	...against the aggression of a much more powerful country. As long as Ukraine defends itself, as long as the front runs on Donbasa, it will not be and is not near the Polish borders, we can feel safe.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u293	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u294	I present our amendments. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u295	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on draft resolutions on: establishing on 11 July the Day of Remembrance of Poles - Victims of Genocide by the OUN-UPA in the Eastern Kreses of the Second Republic of Poland, printing No.625, and paying tribute to the victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Republic of Poland in the years 1943-1945. July 11 is the anniversary of the apogee of genocide committed by the Ukrainian Nationalist Organization and so-called. The Ukrainian Uprising Army. It was a terrible mass crime that has been recorded in the history of our history. This third crime, alongside the Soviet and German genocide in the Polish nation, has not yet been punished or condemned. Despite the passing of 73 years of victims of this crime, Poles are still waiting to commemorate their martyrdom. Most of them did not even have a burial, and their remains are in unmarked and unknown places in old Polish lands. The anniversary of genocide by the formations of Ukrainian nationalists on the population of the Polish Eastern Kresów inspires a reminder of this tragic event of Polish and international public opinion. The issue of commemoration of victims and the restoration of historical memory on this subject is still a task before which we stand as a state and a nation. Poles and all of Europe deserve to know the whole truth, hidden for years, not only because of respect for the victims, but also so that future generations can draw conclusions and prevent similar events from happening again in the future. We owe it to the murdered, we owe it to our descendants. In recent years, we have seen an increase in the popularity of Stepan Bandera and the Ukrainian Insurgent Army in Western Ukraine. With the total silence of the authorities in Kiev and Warsaw, the monuments of Stepan Bandera are created in Ukrainian cities, his name is called streets and squares, there are marches that glorify UPA's heroism, publications that negate the participation of UPA in the murders of Poles are published. Systematically, apart from a few exceptions, attempts to commemorate the victims of UPA terror are blocked in Ukraine. This dangerous rise in nationalist trends is very dangerous for building a common Europe. This is also in fundamental contradiction with the idea of previous resolutions of the Polish Sejm, which call for an agreement between Poles and Ukrainians on the basis of truth. Today, this truth is drastically covered with empty gestures, and lying to one's own relationships never goes hand in hand with building true good neighbourly relationships. The establishment on 11 July of the day of commemoration of victims of genocide by the OUN-UPA in the Eastern Kreses of the Second Republic of Poland is, in this situation, an important step towards a worthy celebration and commemoration of victims of criminal ideology. I would like to stress that from the projects on which the committees worked together, we considered the PiS project to be leading because it consumes the most important assumptions of the project of the Polish People's Party. He considers events in Volyn in 1943 to be a crime of genocide and according to our project he establishes 11 July Day of Remembrance for Poles - Victims of Genocide in the Eastern Ends of the Second Republic. Moreover, what is important, the main Polish community, which was the victim of the slaughter, was defined in the explanatory memorandum - mainly peasants. The role of the Battalions of Boys, who undertook to defend Poles, also needs to be stressed. The Club of the Polish People's Party will support the aforementioned. a resolution and proposes one amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u297	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On 11 July 1943, Ukrainian nationalists attacked 99 villages in Volyn. On that day thousands of our compatriots were killed, among whom were children, women, old men. The most frightening thing is that the victims died not only from bullets from firearms, but also from farm tools: forks, axes, saws and others. The Ukrainian nationalists from the CNS-UPA did not even go back to desecrating temples by attacking churches where the faithful prayed. Bloody Sunday became a symbol of the OUN-UPA genocide. The documented number of victims is close to 130 thousand. These crimes meet the definition of genocide. It was a terrible genocide, as the experts describe it. The cruelty of the perpetrators and the scale of the murders are not equal in the modern history of the world. I don't want to empathize with the examples I quoted in my statement on 7 July this year, but they really were horrible faces. It is therefore completely incomprehensible why, before the 73rd anniversary of bloody Sunday, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland did not establish on 11 July a national day of memory of the victims of genocide by the OUN-UPA on the citizens of the Polish Eastern Kresów II of the Republic. On the occasion of the anniversary, politicians spoke about the Volyn massacre talking about the fratricidal war. Relation of this case should be prohibited by law. It is a lie of Volyn, [[Applause]] which should be sanctioned, as should the Auschwitz lie. I don't see any difference between these two great crimes. We are dealing with the Polish Holocaust, High Izbo. Victims of OUN-UPA genocide on Polish citizens in the Eastern Kreses should be commemorated in the form of a bill, like soldiers of the underground fighting for freedom and independence of Poland after the Second World War, whom we worship on the basis of the Act of 3 February 2011 establishing on 1 March the National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers. I would like to remind you that the resolutions of the Parliament, with the exception of those indicated directly in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, are declaratory, not constitutional, in contrast to the laws. The resolution is merely a form of the declaration of the Sejm and has a symbolic dimension, it is not legally binding in contrast to a law whose laws are effective erga omnes. We should work together and build an agreement with the Ukrainians, but not with the banners, just as we built friendly relations with the Germans after the war, but not with the Nazis who were tried in Nuremberg. In Germany, no one can think of giving monuments to Hitler or Himmler. This should also be the case in Polish-Ukrainian relations. Members of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, subject to the change of the time limit for 1947, because I will remind the High House that these killings in Eastern Małopolska continued until 1947, among others. in the Lviv Voivodeship or even in the current Poland, within the current Poland... [[Carpathians.]] ... Carpathians, that's why this date has to be changed... So that we declare our support for the resolution reached by the High Chamber, because de facto the resolution itself is good, commemorates the victims of this terrible genocide. On the other hand, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to adopt a law, I stress, a law commemorating the victims of genocide made on Polish citizens by Ukrainian nationalists in Volhynia and Eastern Małopolska, establishing 11 July as a day of remembrance and introducing into legal order the term of lying to Volhynia threatened with criminal sanctions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u299	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr Cornel Morawiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From this great place of Poland I address the Ukrainian brothers. Evil, beastly always blinds, and evil, beastly glorified blinds absolutely. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please and I call on you not to heroize, to undo the criminal law that heroizes bandits, to destroy monuments that offend people's conscience. [[Applause]] I ask for true Polish-Ukrainian brotherhood. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u301	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Janusz Sanocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All I can say is finally. Finally, after 27 years the Polish Sejm adopts a resolution commemorating hundreds of thousands - some estimates even say that it was 600 thousand. - the victims of the beastly murders. I'm saying this not because I know it from a book. My family comes from Kresów, my grandmother was Ukrainian. With disgust, disgust and indignation, she spoke of what the posterity and nationalists did. And for me, the fact that for 27 years of free Polish Polish Sejm, the Polish authorities have not managed to define the genocide, the requirement, the enforcement of the Ukrainian truth about our mutual relations, is something incomprehensible, something that really makes us wonder, who and for what motives did this, that for 27 years we could not commemorate it. It's a good thing it's finally happening. I stand by what you said to Marshal Morawiecki. UPA monuments, CNS, heroes: Banders, Klymów Sawurów, Shuchewychwychów should be destroyed. In the meantime, last week, one of the main streets of Kiev was named Stepana Bandera Street. It's just something extraordinary. And there's one more thing I want to say. We are being explained that we must make concessions because Ukraine is at war with Russia. Ukraine at war with Russia is not, ladies and gentlemen. It's not! Check it out. It's not. And President Poroshenko? His factories work in Russia. So let's not make our own brain water. Therefore, I am very pleased that this resolution will finally be adopted here and that the Polish Sejm of this term will wipe out this disgrace, which unfortunately was covered by the governments of various union of vileness or other parties. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u303	Please take the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, in this Chamber there was a lie of Volynsk, because there was no Polish-Ukrainian conflict in the 1940s - genocide. The same was true of the German-Jewish conflict during World War II, only planned genocide, was the Holocaust. The East End experienced the same Holocaust, among others. at the hands of Ukrainian nationalists, whom today they worship and make them the basis of today's national identity in Ukraine. And I am convinced that if not in this term, in the next Sejm, I hope that, as soon as possible, the Sejm will approve the pursuit of such a lie of Volynsk, legal prosecution, so that the liars of Volyn are branded in Poland by law. This is not only an element of our pedagogy, such internal hygiene, it is an element of our responsible historical policy, because unfortunately, the lie of Volynsk sold by the elites of the Third Republic for 27 years is part of the disgraceful doctrine of Giedroycia, which produces shameful fruits, which tells us to erase half of Polish identity, half of Polish literature, half of Polish soul from our national identity. It's like someone actually said, like, cut out half the brain, forget about Lviv, about Vilnius, about the Ends. And I don't mean some territorial rehab, but I mean three things. First of all, historical memory and historical truth, among others. the kind to which we seek in these resolutions, in these draft laws. Secondly, concern for Poles who remain there, who in the name of national solidarity must always be a priority of our policy in the East towards Lithuania, towards Belarus, towards Ukraine. Finally, thirdly, it is the formation, education, culture and education. Therefore, this year from Jasna Góra, from the World Congress of Kresowians went a cry for a museum of Eastern Kresów, for an institution which will be at least as well financed as a museum of Polish Jews for several hundred million zlotys from the Polish budget. It is a disgrace that such an institution after more than a quarter of a century of sovereign Poland we do not have. It is a disgrace to all previous governments, for the entire political class of the Third Republic, that there is no powerful museum of Eastern Kresów, documenting half of our identity and history. The lack of Polish historical awareness and identity is equal to the lack of Silesia, Małopolska, Wielkopolska or Mazowsze. You can't understand Polishness if you don't touch it if you don't learn it at school. Of course, here we are dealing with such a situation, absolutely incomprehensible to me, in which we finally come to a resolution, unfortunately not a law - and for this bill we will continue to fight, will fight against the border environment - in which we are talking about genocide, there are indications of genocides from the CNS, from the UPA, from the SS Galizien, very well. This resolution, of course, like the Senate's resolution, will raise huge resistance, opposition in Ukraine from historical liars, from Vyatrovych, on the side of Bander's historical policy, which unfortunately is also reflected in this room, because anyone who speaks of a fratricidal conflict in the 1940s in Ukraine, is a historical liar, is a believer in Bander's historical policy, not any other. So we come to this point that this is going to cause a certain reaction in Ukraine, and yet the ruling party is going to do so. So you have a border environment against you, which they know must have forced you to make a resolution on this bill, and secondly, you have against each other, you will have Ukrainians. [[Oh, come on.]] Yes, because they have been assured by the Polish authorities for years - unfortunately also the PiS authorities in the previous term, when you ruled or now - about the fact that there are no problems, suddenly confronting themselves that there is a big, serious problem. This is absolutely shortsighted. Every month, every day on which Poland does not respond to flagship in Ukraine, is a day that worsens future Polish-Ukrainian relations, because foreign policy towards all partners around the world, in Europe and around the world, must be conducted in one way - calm but firm, determined. It's an absolutely eternal recipe. Foreign policy is not love or drop, we hate them, we love them. We pursue our national interests in a calm but consistent, firm, determined manner. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u305	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I have 17 parliamentarians to ask at this moment. If there aren't any more volunteers, I'll close the list. More Mr Święcicki? [[Voice from the room: Me too.]] You're welcome. Gentlemen have already signed up. In that case, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. [[One and a half minutes.]] I ask all Members, ladies and gentlemen, that time be respected. You're welcome. The first question is asked by Mr Józef Brynus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I didn't want to start my questions this way, but I'm gonna ask you a question like this. Mr Dworczyk, don't you feel ashamed to use the so-called term. Bloody Sunday? It's just a sign of what resolution you've prepared. A resolution that even contains stylistic errors. That is why I ask what political reasons make such monsters in this resolution say that it was a fratricidal fight, that in this resolution you also include some kind of political manifesto indicating what you are going through by proposing and pushing this resolution. It's a shame. I'm just gonna read a little bit. Most of these things were presented as Kukiz.15 in the proposals for amendments, but here I will present only one passage: the Polish Parliament expresses solidarity with Ukraine fighting external aggression. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What does this have to do with genocide in Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u307	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to thank all those who will contribute to the process of the resolution on the Volyn crime. It has only recently been possible to speak openly about the great human tragedy. We must, in fact, have an obligation to mention the roots of the slaughter. It was a prostration of the Second World War, sown in the nations of hatred and attention of Ukrainian leaders to German actions, and this is clearly illustrated by the quote from one of the leaders: As of 1 March 1940, we are entering the armed uprising. It is a military operation and as such it is directed against the occupier. However, the current occupier is temporary, so we should not lose our strength in the fight against him. The right invader is the one coming from the Soviet Union. We will solve the Polish matter as [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Germans did it with the Jews. Time for truth, time for pride, time for great homage to the people...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u309	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u310	And first of all, let's remember our identity, our history. Hello their memory! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u311	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The vote on this motion for a resolution, Friday's vote, will really be a historic moment and for the High Chamber of landmarks. Historically, because it will be a kind of reparation to all victims of genocide in Volhynia, to all victims of this giant and beastly crime, to all those who were executed by the nationalist Ukrainians. Finally, finally, after many years of trying 11 July it will be a national day of memory of the victims of genocide by the nationalist Ukrainians on the citizens of the Second Republic of Poland. That's one thing. Secondly, it is important that in this resolution, also after many, many years of efforts, it is the word, it is the term which reflects the truth, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That what was happening in Volhynia, what was happening in Eastern Lesser Poland, was genocide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u313	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Abramowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to estimates, about 10,000. Ukrainians could save Poles from cruel death, and 2,000. He paid for it with his life. Every Ukrainian who helped Poles was regarded by UPA members as a renegade and murdered, usually in a very cruel way, often with the whole family. We were dealing with genocide in Volyn. Those Ukrainians who did not agree to this and who paid or were willing to pay for it with their lives should be especially honoured by the Polish state. To date, the only project to honor the people saving Poles, which has entered the Sejm, is the draft law on the establishment of the Eastern Cross, submitted in 2013 by Law and Justice. However, this project has not been implemented. Following the establishment of 11 July of the Day of Remembrance for Poles - victims of genocide by the OUN-UPA in the Eastern Cartoons, the title should not be established. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Fair and honorable for the righteous for the Ukrainians saving Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u315	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Borowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this resolution there is one very important passage about honoring people who for many years... Honoring soldiers. On the other hand, I would like to point out that it is important to honor and commemorate those who have fought for the truth for decades. Some of them are still alive, their physical health is different, they are very many years old, like 95-year-old Andrzej Żupański, so steps should be taken as soon as possible to properly honor these people at this moment. There's two more comments. Listening to what we are talking about here today, about this crime, about genocide in Volyn - not, among others, the OUN-UPA, and above all, the OUN-UPA, because these are the main perpetrators. As far as the fight against Germany is concerned, the Ukrainians have been more cooperative with the Germans, unfortunately, but this needs to be made clear. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u317	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Szramka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if you could explain to all of us in this House, which was the reason why the draft laws and resolutions are only pending after 11 July? Are you in possession of information, or did any of the allied states influence the decision to bring this up only after the NATO summit? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u319	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki will speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur as to the fact that we are currently trying to establish this holiday in the form of a resolution, not a law. Your translation that holidays in Poland are established by means of resolutions or laws is not sufficient. I would ask that from this point on, not to the Members here gathered, but to the people interested in the subject, watching the transmission, you explain the difference between the establishment of the day in the form of a law and the resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u321	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Bakun.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question, of course, to the rapporteur. Mr President, as you know, we had two draft laws and one draft resolution on 11 July. The first act, which was submitted by the Law and Justice Club, was the law on the establishment of the Day of Passion of Kresowians, referring to the same date, July 11th. Mr Kukiz, I would like to ask, because these two draft laws, namely the draft law on the martyrdom of Kresowians and the draft law of the Kukiz club15, are now in the subcommittee which deals with these projects, which will be their fate, or the Law and Justice after this resolution has been passed, and after this day has been established will find these projects unfounded and we will no longer proceed with them, whether there will be further work to commemorate this feast in the document, in the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u323	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Lech Kołakowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you two short questions. What actions can the Polish state take to commemorate the crime scenes in the territory of the country of Ukraine? The second question I will ask in writing: What is the legal status of real estate, property after murdered Poles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u325	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Kryj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u326	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The resolution we are debating today has been assessed by one of my previous speakers as one-sided. It is impossible to agree with this statement, because although the project submitted to the Sejm shows our Polish point of view and evaluation of events which took place in the years 1943-1945 in the Eastern Kreses of the Second Republic, it not only pays tribute to the Polish victims of genocide, but also shows the attitude of those Ukrainians who saved Poles and also pays tribute to them. The most important effect of this resolution will be to establish on 11 July the National Day of Remembrance of Victims of Genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Republic of Poland and just to name what was happening there, genocide. It is good that it is the Seym of this term that will accept these things, and that is what these events will call. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question. Why was there a different climate of discussion on this compromise draft resolution in the committee, and it changed so much during the session of the Sejm? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u327	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Nothing's okay. There was supposed to be a bill, there's a resolution. It was supposed to be before July 11th. Today is July 20th. Even flagism and flagship symbols are not pursued by law in Poland like fascism or communist symbols. What do we expect from the Ukrainians? Question for Mr Michał Dworczyk. As it happens, we were both in Kiev at the same time and we both met Boris Tarasiuk on June 15th. We missed each other. I don't know about you, but I had pressure from Mr. Boris Tarasiuk, an influential politician, former foreign minister, so that the Polish parliament would not accept the Volyn crime bill, because it would make relations with Ukraine worse and we would be guilty. That was what the Ukrainian politician said, an influential Ukrainian politician. Shame. Political correctness has won again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u329	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Cicholska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u330	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the fact of genocide in Volyn should be remembered. I believe that the adoption of a resolution will make the Ukrainian community reflectively approach such a difficult subject and there will be closer ties between the two nations. I have a question for the Minister. Do you think that the subject of genocide in Volyn should be skillfully presented in the history books for young people both Polish and Ukrainian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u331	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Rapporteur: We are in an area of great suffering, great emotions, passions of unnamed and unrepented wines. The Witnesses and the victims of the Volyn slaughter happily bear the trauma of those events. Their mute pain and panic-scared nights are imprinted by the memories of evil and unspeakable cruelty throughout their entire biography. How can we help them today? Are we even thinking about it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u333	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Bernadet Krynicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, the Volyn slaughter is one of the greatest tragedies in Poland's history. The genocide of Poles was taken over in Volyn in 1943, and in East Małopolska in 1944. Ukrainian nationalists brutally murdered Polish citizens. The brutality of the oppressors is difficult to understand and describe. She'll always be repulsive. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you that in July 2013, Members of the Civic Platform and the Palikot Movement were against calling the slaughter of Volyn genocide. In addition, by the votes of the Civic Platform and the Movement of Palikot the Sejm rejected the amendment establishing on 11 July the Day of Remembrance for the Martyrdom of Kresowians. It was certainly a day of shame and shame of the Polish Sejm. Today came the day to make this mistake casting a shadow on the Polish Parliament to fix. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland establishes on 11 July the National Day of Remembrance of Victims of Genocide. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u335	Thank you, Member. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Dear Friends of the Patriots of Law and Justice! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Why not a bill? Why not a bill? What is the difference between people and those who were torn out of their fingernails in the Katowice of Ubek? Soldiers cursed by law, on 1 March is the National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers. Why can't we make a bill? Who stands in the way of this? Let's take the bill. The Act introduces normative provisions that apply to all state authorities, courts, all citizens. The laws are effective against all. I ask the government of the Republic and the majority of the government to adopt the Act establishing on 11 July a day of commemoration of the victims of the genocide of Ukrainian nationalists in the Eastern Kres. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I also ask you to change the date to later, because there are a lot of victims, including, for example. My dear aunt, who was murdered in 1946 in a cruel way, and here we have a limit to 1945. So maybe not: citizens of the Second Republic, but simply: Polish citizens, it is only a matter of moving this date to 1947. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u337	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Until recently, the Volyn sculpture was an unknown card of history, and it was also confused with other events of World War II. The establishment of July 11th, the day of memory of the victims of genocide, aims to restore the collective memory of mass victims from Volyn and Eastern Małopolska. This is intended to facilitate the process of understanding crime and reconciliation. The Ukrainian side often refers to the murders on Poles as the events of Volynsk, and Poland explicitly refers to: the crime of Volyn. If a generation of Ukrainians grows up, who will be considered heroes of people who were involved in the genocide of Poles, then the agreement between these generations will be impossible. You can't build anything good on the glorification of evil and on the lie. Actions to commemorate the victims of genocide in Volhynia are aimed at paying tribute to the victims so that everyone murdered is commemorated. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is therefore important to take action to defy history, to take action to show the truth of history about these events and to make sure that these facts are included in the history books.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u339	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Kukiz club15, we have tabled an amendment that refers to the definition of what was happening on our Ends as a fraternal struggle. Minister, do you think that's the right word for it? After all, every Polish child in Poland once knew that there was Katyń, that there was a Warsaw Uprising. Today, in our Polish homes, we all know that it was a slaughter, it was not a frat fight, and I think you really know it in your heart. In our border families, we have a great burden, and believe me, from the transmission of our grandparents, our families, we know it wasn't a fraternal struggle. In our families there were Ukrainians, my great-grandmother was Ukrainian. We lived with them, we didn't fight them. And just as today we are fighting Soviet communism, with German Nazism, also today we as Poles must fight the reborn neo-Naziism in Ukraine. And typing and talking about fratricidal fights is getting into this neo-Nazi rhetoric. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u341	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Marcin Święcicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to stress that, in order to commemorate these monstrous crimes, it is necessary, first, to determine all the places where they have taken place. In many towns there is no sign at all that they once lived there, lived there, lived there Poles and how they were murdered. [[Boo...]] It is necessary to carry out exhumations, burials, making appropriate plates, maybe monuments in places, drawing up a list of all these victims, which would be extremely tedious and long work. In all these matters, as you have said here, the cooperation of Ukrainians - and the fact that they should do so together, so that they too will do so - would be valuable, necessary and valuable. Well, I'm wondering, Mr. Reporter, if I have one question for you, is the word "humanicide"... I don't question that word, and prosecutors who use codes have every right to use it in their investigations, in their investigations. This is a different qualification, it's no limitation, then there are other aspects related to it. But we have traditionally used the term "Volyn slaughter." [[♪ The bell ♪]] If this is one word of genocide because of this awareness of the Ukrainians would blow up all this cooperation with the Ukrainians, are you really sure that using this word, we will gain them for this cooperation... [[Down with the commune!]] ...will we blow up this great work to commemorate the victims, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Who needs it so much, or are we just... [[Mr Janusz Sanocki hits the desktop]] [[Down with the commune! Down with the commune!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u343	Members, please... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr. President, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u344	Wouldn't that be counterproductive, Mr. Reporter? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u345	Members, I ask you to be very serious. Mr President, time is up. Please, Mr Maciej Masłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's very happy after hours. 21, you can say: a simple committee report, and so many people in the Chamber. I know why. Because you know very well that our bill on commemorating the victims of genocide was good, and you would like to vote for it, but it didn't work out, party discipline. Let's get to the question. I have a question for the rapporteur: Why, in this resolution, a small part of it concerns the commemoration of the victims of genocide, and a large part of this resolution is a translation, an excuse for the Ukrainian party, why do we want this commemoration? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u347	Thank you very much. The questions were addressed to both the Minister and the rapporteur. On behalf of the Minister for Culture and National Heritage, the Secretary of State in that Ministry, Minister Jan Dziedziczak, will answer the questions. [[Voice from the hall: Ministry of Foreign Affairs.]] Ministry of Foreign Affairs, excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u348	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Before I get to the questions, I'll allow myself to have a few sentences of a general, general statement. I would like to point out that our government wants to build good relations with Ukraine. We are very hoping for good relations with Ukraine, for joint action. We've been together for 1,000 years, we're bordering on each other, we have the same political, geopolitical interests in many places. We're counting on trade relations. [[So do we.]] We're hoping for a very good neighborly relationship. Our relationship... This period of 27 years is mentioned here. Maybe I'll mention what happened 25 years ago. Poland was the first country in the world to recognise independent Ukraine. It was the voice from Poland that made Ukraine an independent country. It was only later that other countries in the world accepted independent Ukraine one by one. This is an important moment that we need to talk about, showing the great kindness of the Polish state towards Ukraine. Poles were with Ukraine in difficult times of this quarter century - and 10 years ago, and 11 years ago, and also two years ago. During difficult times we were together with the Ukrainians. Let us add that for free Ukraine, for independent Ukraine also now, also at this moment, many Poles with Ukrainian citizenship who live there are killed. Therefore, our policy towards Ukraine could be taken into account in one sentence: yes to Ukraine blue and yellow, not for Ukraine black and red. [[Applause]] It was genocide, and this genocide was such a crime that it had to be accounted for, you have to tell the truth in the end so that you could build a good relationship. We take this as an investment in the future. Because let us ask ourselves what will be in 10 years - here were questions about education, then I will refer to them - what will be in 10, 20 years, if today the Ukrainian state will raise young generations in the cult of flagship, if it will show characters like Bandera as impeccable examples to follow, heroes of Ukraine. Will the relationship between our countries as a result of the upbringing of future generations in this cult be as we would like it to be? Will the relationship between our societies be like this? Did they expect us to dream? No. There will be trouble, and anyone who even analyzes Stepan Bandera's life story knows that. That is why we are asking the Ukrainian country close to us to stop this type of policy, the policy of flagship worship, the OUN-UPA. It just doesn't favor the kind of relationship we'd expect. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out what is most important to us here. Let's build the future on the truth. And this initiative of yours, the initiative of Parliament, is certainly a step towards it. If I may move on to the questions, let me answer these few of your questions directly addressed to the government. Mr Abramovich asked about the award for Ukrainians saving Poles. What I'm trying to say is that this is an excellent initiative, and it should be something like that. We greatly appreciate those who saved, risking their lives, lives of their loved ones, often losing this life, their brothers of Poles. This should certainly be honored by our country. And this is this beautiful tradition, a noble, beautiful tradition, a tradition based precisely on Christian, European values, that is, those to which Ukraine is going. It should be a tradition that we encourage our neighbors to build their identity on it, much better than the black and red one. Mr Kołakowski asked about the place of commemoration of the victims during the genocide. We will do our utmost to ensure that these places are duly commemorated. As for the question of Mrs Anna Cicholska, she asked about the textbooks, as I understand the whole programme, I will already allow myself to develop this question, the educational programme on these terrible events concerning this genocide. This is of course my private opinion, but as far as our responsibilities are concerned, it should be in our textbooks. We hope that the truth will also be found in our neighbor's textbooks. Mr Gaina asked: the law, the resolution. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a question for the government, it is a question for you, for Parliament. Mr Khrushch asked about the question of naming. It seems to me that the phrase "brother-killing" is a very accurate phrase, because it reflects certain relationships... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ...between our nations. Between our nations, but I would rather formulate what happened as fraternal genocide. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u349	Thank you, Minister. And please take the floor of the rapporteur, Mr Michael Dworczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to answer those questions that I've been able to write down. First speech - Mr Święcicki. You spoke of common calls for forgiveness. You also referred to the letter of the German bishops. No, I'm sorry, it's not the Member, it's the joint calls for forgiveness. To this famous statement, we forgive and ask forgiveness for a few people. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is this - of course it is very noble and we should seek reconciliation, that is not questioned by anyone - that these words, if they are not filled with content, are empty, except that they sound nice, bring nothing positive. And if we hear from Ukrainian politicians: we want reconciliation, we hear that they regret the victims of those events, but on the second day we observe them on TV, as they are present at the opening of another monument to Bandera or Romana Shuchewych Street, we see that the Greek Catholic clergy are involved, it is difficult to recognize that this is sincere, it is difficult to recognize that this is indeed the way that is going to real reconciliation rather than empty declarations. It is true that few people know what really happened in Volyn. It is true that few people know what the true role of the Ukrainian Nationalist Organization was and... [[Poles know that.]] ... The Ukrainian Insurgent Army. Why is this happening? Because there is a false historical policy pursued by the Ukrainian State. Because the main ideologists who work at the Ukrainian Institute of National Remembrance are deceiving the nation, i.e. They represent a curved picture of UPA and the CNS, despite the meticulous genocide that both organizations are guilty of, and they really talk about what happened after 1945, and after 1945 these formations actually fought against the Soviets. The problem is that - and you can verify it with one of the best historians who deals with this problem, Grzegorz Motyka - that there are no new UPA troops. Of course, there were new recruits, there were 17-year-olds who died in the Carpathians at the beginning of the 1950s, fighting the Soviets, but Roman Shuchewych functioned in these structures until the 50th year, other POWs functioned equally, so that it could not be separated. And I think you understand that too, sir, so I am a little surprised at your surprise about this. Of course you must appreciate the gesture of President Poroshenka. It's very good that the president paid his respects. Just like I said, the previous day the authorities in Kiev are one of the main streets, street. Moscow, they were just renaming on the street. Stepan Bandera, right? And as we know, in Ukraine, the power of the President is quite broad. And now you have to look at this gesture that you said was a good forecast for the future, but you can't close your eyes on what's going on around you. The proposals for the statement sent by Mrs Syroid and Mr Tarasiuk were distributed to all members of the bilateral group and perhaps to the assembly, although I do not know this, but to the bilateral group for sure. We did not process this, because this text in our opinion - I am thinking of Marshal Terletki and of me as president of the group - as if he did not bring anything into Polish-Ukrainian relations. It was something completely different than what we're trying to do right now, which is pay tribute to the victims, yes, and call these crimes by name. I do not know if it is the Member, I think it is, that he also referred to John Paul's statement. II. [[Meysztowicz.]] Oh, that's Mr Meysztowicz, yes, I'm sorry. Of course, you are right that John Paul II called for this, but I would really be careful in such selective treatment of the words of St. John Paul II, because John Paul II in Lviv also said: "Thanks to the purification of historical memory, everyone will be ready to put higher what unites than what divides to build the future together, and today, unfortunately, Ukraine puts higher what divides, because the murderers of the Polish civilian population share rather than unite. [[Applause]] Poles and Ukrainians. Now let us move on to what was going on... Mr Bakun talked about it, but also others. Members have spoken about this, so I will address it collectively. Resolution - bill. Why didn't we make it? Because we didn't make it. And that's actually something you have to hit your chest for, but I'll tell you this. I'm glad it's the smile on your mouth that makes me laugh. Let me put it this way: it's the fault... Please? [[I laughed at the answers.]] I see. This is, I think, the fault of many people, Mr, because, once we talked about this, when we submitted a bill on 10 February, none of you came forward to talk to us about what is wrong with this bill, but you said we were going to race. Then there were more projects, and this pursuit led to what it had led to. Speaking of whether we made it in time or not. What's the difference between a law and a resolution? And whether we adopt something by resolution... because in Poland, as we know, we can also establish a holiday, and by resolution, the Sejm has the right - the Senate does not, but the Sejm has the right. And I have to say this: you think it's some sort of branded homage, you used a term that somehow, as I understand it, we are depreciating the victims of the genocide that the Ukrainian nationalists have done. Do you think that a marked tribute was the adoption by the Sejm of a resolution that established the National Remembrance Day of the Victims of Nazi German Concentration Camps and Holocaust Camps? Do you think they're the same? mistreated sibiracs who have their holiday established by a resolution? And the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Katyn Crime, which was also established by a resolution? I understand that you would feel satisfied if it were a law, because the law was established for such important holidays as. Social worker's day or Treasury Day. I could count some more Christmases like this. I think the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is how we and the Polish state will celebrate this holiday, celebrate whether we really want to make a circus out of it and race for who is the greater patriot, or we want to pay tribute to these people. Mr Meysztowicz referred to the Polish-German reconciliation. Yeah, that's a good example. The problem is that the reference to the process of Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation is somewhat misguided, because if the monuments of Dr Mengele or other Nazi criminals were erected in Germany, then the fate of the Polish-German reconciliation would probably be different. Therefore, this cannot be compared. I believe that the Member also referred to letters and letters signed by the Greek Catholic Church's superiors. Here I must say that we have this dissonance again, because on the one hand we read beautiful words, and on the other hand the Greek Catholic clergy participates in practically every celebration where there are glorified murderers. Mr Gaina said that the period we are talking about in the resolution should cover the years 1939 and 1947. Yeah, that's right, of course, you're right, those murders started in 1939 and ended in 1947. On the other hand, the text of this resolution was consulted with the historians of the Institute of National Remembrance and they said clearly that as far as the qualification of genocide is concerned, this qualification concerns events from 1943 to 1945 - without denying that these murders began in 1939 and lasted until 1947. We have therefore adopted such a date. When it comes to penalization, it's about the Volyn lie. Mr President, there is nothing to prevent you from making such a proposal, i.e. a proposal to amend criminal law or any other law, i.e. to take a legislative initiative. This has nothing to do with the draft resolution, as well as with the draft laws, because in any of these two laws, which we are also talking about today, there was no project of penalization of the flagship symbolism. Mr Winnicki spoke here, which unfortunately is no longer in this Chamber, speaking of support by the Kresowians, which is a lot, suggesting that this will somehow translate into support. I don't want to comment on such an approach to the case at all, because it seems to be some sort of instrumentalization of the issue. We're here not counting in support, but some elementary honesty. Mr Brynus had reservations about the text. Mr President, the simple question is: Where were you during the committee work? 'Cause now you're... [[I've been to a different committee.]] I understand that you had other important matters, so you weren't there, but there's time to make amendments, and now you can make these amendments. I didn't see you at the committee, so I don't know. Whether it's cynicism or something. Mr Szramka, why... aha, sorry, I answered that question. Mr Bakun, in turn, asked what to do with the laws. As far as the laws are concerned, they are, as you know, in the subcommittee, the subcommittee meeting was convened on Friday, and if you want to verify that, check that you are not being cheated, ask your clubmate, Mr Jakubiak, whom I spoke with before noon today. Therefore, this is not the answer to your question and it is not an action called now because we want to hide something, move something or, I don't know, hide it, just that was the term. And I reply to you: there will be a subcommittee meeting on Friday afternoon. Mr Maciejewski said something about us giving in to various pressures of Mr Tarasiuk. Excuse me, sir, I, of course, spoke to Mr Tarasiuk, but this is bullshit. As far as the question of "brothers' is concerned, I understood it - because it was an amendment, as I remember, by Mr Święcicki - like Minister Dziedziczak, that it was not a relativization or an attempt to describe these events as a conflict, but a description of the fact that Poles and Ukrainians in these areas lived together for centuries and at this point it was all the more painful that neighbors murdered their neighbours. And now I've still got, these were my answers... Aha, Mr Święcicki asked me if I was afraid that the use of the term "genocide" will lead to the disruption of the process of Polish-Ukrainian cooperation. That's how I understood the question. Mr President, I believe that we cannot be held hostage by any ideologists, including Ukrainian ideologists. It means we can't be blackmailed by the fact that if we tell the truth, someone will do something to us. [[It's about the Volyn slaughter - a traditional term.]] Mr Masłowski said that the proportions of this resolution were distorted, that there is more interpretation and justification than paying tribute. I don't think so. It is a pity that you weren't at the committee meeting and didn't speak if you think that the text is wrong, and if you were or if you are now making an amendment, go ahead. I don't think there's any imbalance in the proportions. And now I am. That's what I said as an MP, and now I'm talking as a man. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: I don't see the difference.]] I believe in intentions. I'm putting... Okay, you can laugh, but what I'm about to say is mostly to you, Mr. President. I assume most of you have good intentions. You asked me if I was ashamed, you suggested how I felt about the Kres and the victims of genocide. So here's what I'm going to say: I'm not ashamed because I've been a Boy Scout since the early '90s, first as a Boy Scout, and then as a activist of different organizations, I tried to help these people and I've been riding Kresa I and II of the Republic. I'd be happy to talk to those who were with gifts, food, books, textbooks... Will there be a person who's been to more places? I haven't seen most of the people in this room. I understand that there are emotions in part, but I think that some suggestions are just below the belt and testify to cynicism and the willingness to use this issue instrumentally. [[Voice from the room: This is instrumentalism.]] And to you, sir, if you again suggest that I have a bad attitude towards the Kres or some contemptuous attitude towards the victims, I will simply put you in the face. [[I'm waiting.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u351	Members. Gentlemen... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Wait a minute, please leave the platform. [[There was a threat.]] The Speaking Marshal calls Members to the vote, first of all. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, our deliberations today are being listened to - I am convinced - victims, family members of victims of this genocide crime that took place in Volyn. And I ask you very much, gentlemen, who have come to the floor in the manner of correcting, that, through respect for these victims, to the members of the families of these victims, and through respect for the High House, this should be a correction, not a brawl. Please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Bakun. One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u352	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, it is cynical to accuse us of racing in patriotism, racing in who will submit the bill. In fact, I admit that the Law and Justice project was the first, it was already submitted in February, and it was sent to the subcommittee which was specifically established for this purpose on 24 or 26 February. However, I remind you that you wanted to establish the 11th of July on the day of the martyrdom of Kresowians. [[We've already talked about this.]] We're the ones who put together a bill that straightens it out and calls it what you call it right now in the resolution. It is you who cynically approach the fact that you will give the border environment a bill, but without genocide or genocide, but without [[♪ The bell ♪]] Laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u353	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u354	This is your cynicism, not ours, and it wasn't our intention to race. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u355	Thank you, sir. And before I ask Mr Józef Brynkus to speak, I will repeat my request once again. It is not correct to say: we, you, us, you. I'd like a corrigendum, please. Mr Józef Brynkus, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, both the subject and the seriousness of this House make it impossible for me to refer to the last part of Mr Dworczyk's statement. I'm just going to address the substantive issues. Mr Dworczyk, I have tried, I have participated in all these meetings when I could. I am not a member of any of those committees that have been formally involved in this matter. Yesterday at 3 p.m. 15 on the basis of the revised agenda, there was a debate on the IPN in which I presented the position of the Kukiz Club15. That's why I couldn't be in this committee meeting. I would very much like, although I believe that a law should be adopted, to participate, even at this moment, in the work to improve this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u357	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the draft resolution, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media and to the Communication Commission with Poles abroad in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Social Policy Committee and the Family on the draft law amending the law on family support and foster care, the Social Assistance Act and the Act on amending the law on local government and certain other laws (prints no. 679 and 739). I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the law on supporting family and foster care, the Social Assistance Act and the Act on amending the law on local government and certain other laws, in accordance with print No. 679. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for first reading on 4 July 2016. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, following its first reading and consideration at its meetings on 19 and 20 July 2016, invites the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Allow me to add that this law extends the possibility of combining family support and foster care facilities and social assistance organisations. It extends this possibility in relation to the Act of 25 June 2015, also taking into account that these links do not jeopardise the conditions under which children are raised in foster care. The second issue of the law is the extension of the period of possibility of adapting its functioning to the provisions of the Act by care and education institutions, regional care and therapy institutions and intervention pre-adoption centres which do not comply with the requirements of the article. 106 of the Act and were created before the entry into force of this Act. That period shall be extended until 31 December 2019. During the work of the Commission on the bill, the draft annexed to this printing was adopted by 16 votes, with 11 abstentions. The Commission shall, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, shall submit the following proposals at the request of the applicants: the first request by Mrs Chcaj, which concerns the way the various organisational units are merged, and the two amendments by Mrs Kochan, which relate to the method of remuneration and the allowances and benefits to cover the cost of living of the child or the person in the foster family or care institution of the family type. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u359	Thank you very much, Member. And we wish you a lot of health. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Barbara Bartus will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u360	Mr. Marshal, change-- Ursula Ruseck.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u361	Change, I get it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u362	Yeah, it's been reported a long time ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u363	We don't have that change.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the law on family support and foster care, the Social Assistance Act and the Act on amending the law on municipal self-government and some other laws on sejm printing No. 679. The contested bill will allow for the joint service of the organizational units supporting the family and the foster care system and the organizational units of the social assistance system. The administrative centres operating before 1 January 2016 to support day-care facilities and institutional units have been liquidated, and in fact they have only been allowed to operate on existing terms for up to 12 months. In this respect, the proposal provides that administrative centres will be able to continue to operate on the basis of the rules in force before 1 January 2016 and not only for 12 months. The proposed law also provides for a limitation on the merger of social assistance organisational units. At the level of the municipality, it will be possible to combine the social assistance centre with the support centre, excluding the support centre for people with mental disorders. At the level of the county, it will be possible to connect the district help centre with the crisis intervention centre. The proposed law prohibits the placement on one ground property or in one building of a care and education facility, e.g. with the sober room. Similarly to these solutions, the possibility of a social assistance unit located in one building has been restricted. It should be pointed out that these are individuals who provide 24-hour care. At the same time, it is proposed to extend the transitional periods to adapt to the new requirements. The aim of the regulations contained in the project is above all to provide the best possible care for children, so benefiting from family support units, i.e. daily support facilities, as well as those placed in foster care, as well as those staying in social assistance units. Connecting individuals that are completely different can lead to a situation in which their basic tasks will not be carried out. The proposed regulations reflect disturbing signals coming from local authorities related to the need for changes introduced on 1 January 2016 in the organisation of joint economic and administrative services and organisational care facilities. In view of the above, the Law and Justice Club welcomes the draft of this Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u365	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the floor of Mrs Magdalena Kochan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have a great deal of trouble because the first reading of the draft law took place yesterday and before we started our first reading, the applicant has already tabled a whole series of amendments, in many cases changing the previously submitted draft. A quickly convened subcommittee, which today was conducted at a really express rate in the voice indisposition of its president, without the possibility of discussion... Maybe I am exaggerating that without the possibility, because we could discuss it, only the problem was that a Member representing applicants without government help would not be able to answer most of the questions asked. So, very soon after the meeting of the subcommittee, a committee meeting was convened and, on the same day, today, there is a second reading. The second problem is that it is a parliamentary project, and it really is a government project introduced by the parliamentary mode. That's where I'm having trouble finding out why. Because none of the representatives of local corporations present at the meetings of both the subcommittee and the committee did not only ask for speedy procedure, but actually encouraged us to create the law in the right way. So the statement by the club's representative Law and Justice that it was the local governments who applied for a change of laws does not seem to be entirely in line with what the representatives of these local corporations said. Why are you working at such a rate and the issue of children and the care provided by local authorities is not consulted with local authorities? Why? In my opinion, this way of proceding not only spoils the law, but, above all, spoils the quality of foster care exercised over children, which are in this situation the most affected. Local government, local government, county council perform all tasks related to this law. Let's leave it to them - so far - the possibility of combining institutions in a way that thanks to the supervision of the voivodship is not allowed to be bad if the supervision of the voivodship is performed well. We learned in the process that we are writing a bill for six institutions. There's no reason why the voivode didn't intervene because these facilities were misorganized or justified by the fact that if they work well, then what's bothering us with this rule? The problem is also that we could not actually find out during the subcommittee meeting and two committee meetings why we are making these changes. No one - neither the government nor the applicant's representative - was really able to put this in a convincing way. So with the exception of the centres that are actually created for easier and cheaper administrative service, after the changes proposed by quickly organized local government officials... In my voivodship today there was a convention of district self-governments, which were first terrified by what was affected by the Marshal's staff, and they protested very strongly during today's meeting. There have been many changes for the better, but there are many that cause concern because we do not know what they serve. My club is unable to accept this form of work on laws that are essential for the weakest, for children who will not claim themselves. There was nothing to prevent us from proceeding with this bill in peace and putting in place appropriate records in the belief that they would work well in September. So we will not support these solutions. There's another chance to improve those records that don't sound so good. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One more amendment I'm handing you to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u367	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u368	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u369	Please take the floor of Ms Agnieszka Chasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on amending the law on supporting family and foster care, the Social Assistance Act and the Act on amending the law on municipal self-government. The Act of Procedure interferes with three legal and organisational systems. It affects an extremely important sphere of life for children who have often been harmed. It has a direct impact on local governments and their finances and can lead to the closure of certain institutions that take care of children or the elderly and support them. I mentioned the consequences that could be enormous, and the reasons for this bill did not speak of them at all. Complex printing has caused great emotion not only among Members, but also among NGOs, local governments, among others. thanks to the reprehensible way Mrs Kochan referred to here and, above all, to the original provisions that were included in this project. I would like to quote a passage from the statement of reasons that personally appalled me: Children who are raised in an environment of old age, sickness, and death face the drama of loneliness on a daily basis. This is difficult to consider appropriate for proper posture and emotional development. You will admit that such a justification of records, which completely prohibited the merger in one building or even on one plot of support facilities for children, senior homes, centres for disabled people or schools, could cause a lot of bad emotions, outrage or a huge wave of criticism, especially since the project is submitted by a party which is considered to be a conservative, promoting traditional model of a multigenerational family - and here such a project from ideology of the Third Reich. During the committee's work, the state deliberately indicated the objective with which we all actually agree. I think that no one here had any doubt that the welfare of the children is in the hands of all of us, but unfortunately the resistance causes that this law is so thoughtless, unconsulted, does not contain completely any real data on the basis of which we could make the right decision. Here the mistake can have huge consequences and really the consequences can be irreversible. The stupidity you've written down in it, it's best to say that you backed out of most of the records quickly before we started proceding. There are no legitimate substantive, practical or economic reasons why local governments cannot decide for themselves how they organise forms of care, whether for children or for the elderly. It's really self-government, we have to trust the local governments, we have to trust the mobs. They're checking the residents downstairs, they'll verify them faster than we are. If we want to create such a law, then actually why didn't we write it down in this law, that there can be no e.g. on this plot. A social agency? Why not, right? Or do we just trust that every one of them has reason, somehow based on common sense? After all, in our laws we are not able to save all potential threats to protect our children. I was relieved when the reflection of the government and the applicants after the suggestions of the opposition and the discussion with the partners in the committee led to the fact that this law would not affect the whole system for which the local authorities are responsible. Thank you for most of the amendments, too. However, our reservations raise provisions that continue to prohibit the connection of 24-hour childcare facilities with buildings where seniors or disabled people or mothers who had to leave their homes. We live in natural environments where old age, disability and illness are everyday. There are no pedagogical indications that the presence of these phenomena has a negative impact on children's development. On the contrary, it allows us to raise sensitive and empathetic people that we really need in our society. Let us, of course, make sure that institutional forms of care for children disappear once and for all from our map and that foster families become the right environment, but let us not create such an artificial right, which is actually very easy to circumvent, because it is today that local authorities have shown - they said that just divide the plot or the building and it is after this solution that you propose. Finally, a huge request to process such laws based on the factual arguments of the environment concerned and in a way that gives us all the opportunity to make an important decision. After all, it is not the Constitutional Court, here we can really do harm, and we can really do it through mere incompetence and haste. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u371	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elizabeth Stępień.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The procedated novel of the law on supporting family and foster care, the Social Assistance Act and the Act on amending the Local Government Act and some other laws imply a reduction in the freedom of action for municipalities and powiats in relation to the organisation of the social assistance system and the replacement care system. It is not left to the counties or municipalities to decide, under the supervision of the voivodeship, whether to combine individual institutions with each other. Why don't you give the state space for reason, rationality and specific needs of the municipalities when it comes to deciding? In addition, multi-functional organisational units are an opportunity for small municipalities and powiats which simply cannot afford separate types of all types of social care facilities. So is it an alternative to liquidating them? The aim of the project is to restore the principle of non-employment of the Director in each child's home facility where they are provided with joint service, which should be considered appropriate. The idea of shared service centres is positive and economically right, improving the efficiency of the operation of individuals. Now it's really split into two: the foster care centers and the rest. In this case, the economic impact is actually failing - after all, public procurement can be used, the economies of scale can be used. This law, the knee-puffed bill, was published on June 22nd, and the committee procession started yesterday, which was the first reading, and after today's subcommittee and commission we have a second reading. Work on the law at such a rapid pace did not take into account the most important - public consultation, does not foresee the impact that the implementation of the law has on local authorities and economic operators, as well as associations. I have the impression that the term "social consultation" is only an enigmatic phrase. No studies have been carried out on how many establishments will be affected by these changes and on the investment expenditure of local government units due to compliance with the applicable rules. Although the Act distinguishes between entities that can function in one building, the location of centres in a separate building and on a separate land property is controversial. I understand the concern of the applicants for the welfare of children, but it is at least inappropriate to separate children from the elderly. There is a reflection on hiding behind the white screen of the hospital or hospice of the elderly, lonely and sick, to spare the children the unpleasant experiences. Except this is not the way to build human moral spines, but to follow the superficiality and lack of awareness of the value of the relationship with another human being. If we want to save ourselves from the trauma resulting from these unsightly and soul-crushing contacts, then we can raise children to be adult selfish, soulless and empathetic snobs and egoists deprived of social ties with the older generation. The correct amendment is to extend by 3 years the transitional period for the adaptation of individuals to the new rules and requirements, although I admit that these continuous changes have really caused confusion in the whole number of accompanying documents. I would also like to point out that it is also appropriate to amend the remuneration and benefits to cover the cost of living of a child or of a person in a foster family or a care and care institution who clarifies the interpretation doubts about the application of the rules and which was also brought at the last minute. This law should be kept to a minimum, talked to the recipients, given the time to discuss and develop optimal solutions. In view of the above and the lack of basic information on the effects of this Modern Law, it will not support this amendment in this form, all the more so as the Act is intended to serve the most deprived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u373	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Family Support and Replacement Care, the Social Assistance Act and the Act on amending the Local Government Act and some other laws. This draft law proposes amendments aimed at partly restoring the legal status before the entry into force of the Act of 25 June 2015 amending the Municipal Government Act and certain other laws. The provisions of the Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2016, preventing further existence in powiats so far correctly functioning centres of economic and administrative care and education facilities were a completely impossible solution. The proposed regulations meet the expectations of local government officials, whose provisions of the law in force from 1 January 2016 only provided additional work and costs. Another scope of the proposed regulation concerns the location of day-care facilities and nursing facilities. This is probably the most emotional issue during the work to date on this law. I personally share the views of the applicants and representatives of the government in this area. The institutional role of foster care is to provide care and upbringing for children when parents are unable to fulfil these obligations. There is a need to create an environment in which to raise children so that they are as close as possible to family. To this end, children's large homes are left to small family establishments. This is intended to serve the proper development, shaping the right attitudes and, where possible, preventing the subsequent social exclusion of these children. In my opinion, the proposed amendments will fulfil the tasks assigned to them by the designers. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u375	Thank you, Member. I would like to inform you that eight parliamentarians have joined the questions. Is there anyone else willing to ask the question? If there isn't, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions. Question time - 1 minute. Please, she is the first to ask the question of Mrs Elizabeth Stępień.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a short question: Why is this speed, this speed, the taking of this law in such a short time? This lacks the possibility of a reasonable discussion, which aims to develop the most optimal solutions. What's that supposed to do? Why are you doing this? Why do you do this to those who need it, the ones who need it the most? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u377	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Płępek. There is no Member. Then I would ask Mrs Anna Cicholska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u378	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The parliamentary bill amending the law on supporting the family and the foster care system, the social assistance law and the law on amending the law on local government is a good change. I have a question for your applicant: will this bill eliminate negative behaviour patterns, e.g. Is it impossible to connect social services homes for people who are addicted to alcohol with a care and education institution? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u379	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law we're talking about, print no.679, in its name, has the following: municipal government. Everyone here today spoke about the local government, about the municipality, but there is only one small problem, because I am speaking not only as a Member, but also as chairman of the parliamentary committee of local government: the committee of this law has not seen it. A hot request to your marshal - I don't believe that the applicant meant badly, I'm sure he meant well. Surely the level of this discussion would be different if it went to two committees - social policy and self-government. I really think that in the future we need to pay attention to these things, and this will make the quality of the law much, much better, more substantive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u381	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u382	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy, as well as to the Members working in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for amending the Act - very need and urgent, because representatives of the institutions requested rapid changes, and associations also asked for them to do so. On their behalf, as early as March, I asked the Minister to change the records as possible. Thank you for listening to the voice of the social side. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, consultations have been going on for months, you don't know what you're saying. You don't talk to the social side. I spoke to this social side, and on their behalf I was just performing here in the Seym. Their voices were listened to by the Members, and this is why this much-needed amendment is needed. Thank you very much for listening to the voice of the National Association of Care and Education Institutions for our children, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which this association has just requested a change. The social side is looking forward to further fruitful cooperation with the next improvement of the law. I would ask you to answer the question: Will the other solutions proposed meet the expectations of local governments and not burden the budgets of the institutions too much? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u383	Thank you, Member. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak... Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, I apologize.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is difficult for me to understand why you continue to insist and want to separate the care of children, young people and the elderly? To my question, how many of these situations are there, the Minister replied that in fact six. The foster care law has been in force for five years, so I asked the second question: Were there any incidents, pathological situations in these six cases? I have not received an answer to that question, so please answer this question. After all, you have your voivodships, ask them to control all these counties, whether there are any dangerous situations there. If they are, this right should be changed calmly, although the voivode in the framework of supervision has the opportunity to intervene. But you turn everything around: children, young people, older people together can't be, it's undesirable for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What about multi-generational families? That's the value, isn't it? And these are separate facilities, really. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u385	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The direction of the changes introduced by the procedated law aims to introduce favourable organisational arrangements for supporting the family and the foster care system. The regulation of the possibility of combining individuals will undoubtedly have an impact on the creation of a friendly environment for children's development. More than 10,000 people go to foster care every year. children, including one in four, are placed in institutional care, so any solution aimed at the welfare of the child is very important. I have a question: Does the amendment provide for clarification of the catalogue of units that cannot be located on a given site or in a single building with an institutional unit of foster care? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u387	Thank you. And Mrs Urszula Ruseck is the last question asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to make one point, and Mrs Borowiak has already said that these consultations have indeed been conducted since March and national associations have requested this change. [[Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: Which one?]] On the other hand, my question to the Minister is as follows. 5 years after the law was introduced and 2 years after its amendment and the signals we receive from people and institutions who implement this law in practice... I have a question: Are there work in the Ministry to amend this law, which will properly lead to even more effective protection of the rights of the child to be raised in the family? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u389	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska. You're welcome, Minister. [[The questions were also for the applicant.]] Good. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u390	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, She asked why at such a rate. We on the committee told you why at this rate. As administrative centres for day support services were closed before 1 January 2016. They're losing power at the end of this year. [[All six of them.]] As a result, after the intervention of local governments... It's not true that local governments didn't intervene. Yes, on the committee, Mr Marek Wójcik was in a very difficult situation. Why? Because in the previous government, Mr Marek Wójcik was Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Administration and Digitization, which introduced these regulations. [[Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: God, what does this have to do with anything?]] It can therefore be said that he played a double role, defending the record he himself introduced. Nevertheless, the positions that we received and the opinions of the social side as well as the local authorities were very worrying about this situation. That's why we're in such a hurry. The Sejm begins its vacation, the legislative process is ongoing, and if we do not introduce this situation by the end of this year, we should terminate the agreements to the Centre's directors. Therefore, local authorities are in a situation of uncertainty and suspension. They have to plan next year's budgets, right? [[Yes.]] And we're not making any changes, so they're having a hard time planning these budgets. [[Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: Let's make a center.]] Therefore, if someone says that local governments do not want these changes, and this was said by Mr Marek Wójcik, who introduced these changes, then it is certain, I would say, false data. It's a false position. [[Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: Jesus, but it is not like that.]] [[Minister, it's just that a lot of local governments don't know that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u391	But don't do polemics. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: Whether these proposed changes would be positive, that was the next question. One of the ladies has already said that, of course, these changes will have a positive impact on the finances of local governments, because we are actually returning to the state before 2016. These are effective changes. Effective management of care and education institutions. The answer to Mrs Ratch-Jelly's question on clarification - yes, these provisions are precisely clarifying which individuals we can connect and which we cannot combine. Are changes made in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy? Yes, this law is monitored, analyzed and the Ministry is preparing amendments to this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: What about these six, I'm sorry?]] Thank you, Minister. And please take the floor of the representative of Leszek Dobrzyński's applicants. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to the statements of the opposition, I had the impression that either we participated in a little bit of other work, in another committee, or being here, in this room, changes a little of our point of view. I'm also asking for some logic. On the one hand, you have confirmed that changes have been made, that amendments have been made, etc., that they have just been heard, among others. the voice of the opposition, as well as the voice of local organisations, social organisations, such as the coalition for foster parenting, and on the other hand it is a constant complaint that this mode, that some amazing knee-pushing, on the other hand, you yourselves certify that a lot of amendments. Anyone who has participated in the work of this committee may have been able to testify, I take my fellow witnesses here at least, that, in fact, God forbid that the voice of the opposition should always be so heard. But maybe it's also a lesson to us that maybe sometimes it's not worth it, it's not worth listening to, because we're gonna get hit anyway, and we're gonna get hit -- for sticking our knees, for the sudden mode. It has already been said here, why this speed, why this concern, so that these changes can be calmly introduced by local authorities since September. But I also have to say that the other voices were amazing. I listened here to this monologue about the fact that Law and Justice in some special way wants to separate children from the elderly and that this is some kind of super-criminal. I'll tell you this: what else is a natural matter, a family, a grandmother, a grandfather, a relationship, a time of passing, but what else is it? And in committee, we came to a common understanding, and I remember exactly that everyone at the end agreed that there was something else to put children in a facility, in a child's home, no matter what we call it, right next to it or not. Even on the grounds of the welfare home. There's a difference. It's just a newspaper closet, so to speak. Why do I say newspaper? Because even a month ago an article in a newspaper appeared on this subject, whose title I will not mention, in which the same trail was led the thought that this is the Law and Justice which in some perfidious way wants to stigmatize the elderly, to separate them from the children. I'll tell you this: as a person, let's say, young, but I've been living and working for a year, and I've been doing military work there, at the social services house. Stricte on the ground, literally living in a room with residents. For me, as a young man, although already mature, it was a very important life experience. But I'd still be afraid, and I wouldn't want to. Put your family, so to speak, permanently in such a climate, no matter how we judge it. There's a difference here, isn't there? In a moment, we can deal with other examples where you can and cannot place your family, in short. Ladies and gentlemen! It was about proceding, it was about connecting common rooms or common buildings, e.g. it is the care and care institutions and social services houses. And there was another issue here that was left, and I had an impression, calmly and deeply explained on the committee. It's about this famous number, that we have six such cases in Poland. Whether it's much or little and whether it's worth the bill for these six cases. We talked about this in the committee and, I remember, there was at the end of the proposal that everyone, I had the impression, agreed - if there are six of these cases, it means that there is a problem, and if there is a problem, it is better to solve it right now, when there are six cases, than wait a year, 2, 3 years, when these cases will be 10, 15 or 20. That's why we're in the Seym to set boundaries to set a framework. And it has nothing to do with any kind of, I don't know, self-consciousness, bonding or something. We're the law here. Every letter of the law, every rule is somehow a systematization, an indication of a path - that from now on it is free and yet no longer. That's what we're here for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u393	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor... [[Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: Sorry, Marshal. I didn't get an answer about those six houses, and I'd like to know...]] But the rapporteur will be answering right away. [[Mr Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: To the Minister it was.]] I would like to ask you, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to try and answer some of the charges raised here. The first is a huge number of amendments which have hindered the work on the opposition committee. As rapporteur, I would like to give this testimony - these amendments were tabled on request, in connection with the course of the discussion, by the Members of the opposition. These amendments removed parts of the articles, so it was a step towards agreement on the shape of this law. Therefore, I do not understand the plea as to the number of amendments. The amendments were introduced by the Member of the applicant as a result of the growing discussion and suggestions made by the Members of the opposition. Now another question - why so quickly. In part, the Minister has already explained this matter. The notice period lasts three months, so you need to have that time to terminate your employment contract, if the institution has to be terminated, you need to know what legal conditions it will be subject to next year. And it was a rush. 3 months is the period you need to know about earlier, which is before your holiday. The question from Mrs Cicholska, which concerned attempts to eliminate irregular behaviour precisely because of the application of certain prohibitions on the merger of establishments. It is known that facilities such as a sobering chamber listed enumeratively in this bill, institutions associated with the stay of mentally ill people, which could pose a certain risk, or institutions for people undergoing rehabilitation due to alcohol abuse, may be such objects whose close presence could endanger the proper course of the educational process. So that's the cause. calculating them in the bill. The next thing you know, it's cost. Of course, if it is allowed, and this is the case in this draft law, the greater, wider possibility of linking offices under the direction of the same director, with the same accounting service, this means reducing the costs that the local government is putting at risk of maintaining these facilities. So this is an economic advantage for the local government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u395	Thank you very much, Member. [[Mr Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: I am sorry, Mr Marshal, but I still do not have an answer to my question. Maybe in writing, the Minister will answer me.]] There you go, she'll probably answer in writing, since... Yes? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, You also received an answer to this question at the committee meeting. [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: Which social services houses?]] That's what I'm saying. There have been no reports of inappropriate behaviour in these facilities. And you have received this reply, as also mentioned by the applicant today. It was also said that the law should prevent or anticipate certain situations, not just fix situations where there is some media noise when something bad happens. That is the way to look at this dimension. And you should not look at social services houses just through the prism of one of their types, homes for the elderly. Please note that there are also houses for people who are addicted to alcohol, for people who are chronically ill, and that there are social services of various types. [[Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: Were there such connections with alcohol and mental?]] There are all kinds of houses, now there's no way. [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: Is there a connection in these six?]] You should know that the type of social assistance home for people who are addicted to alcohol has only just been introduced and could therefore not have been previously connected to another type of social assistance home. [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: It is about children.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u397	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment proposed by the applicants refers to provisions which have been introduced by another law. It is a law of 25 June 2015 amending the Municipal Government Act and certain other laws aimed at increasing the flexibility and cooperation of local government units. The Act states that each county may combine a daily support facility with a care and education facility or an organisational unit of social assistance. This possibility also involves a reduction in the number of directors' posts. As a result of the above amendment, changes have been made, among others. to the Law of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care (Journal of Laws No. U. z 2015 poz. 332, late. zm.). The proposal prepared by the PiS to amend the family and foster care and social assistance laws provides for a departure from the arrangements introduced by the Act of 25 June 2015 on the amendment of the Municipal Government Act and some other laws from the beginning of this year. The question arises: At what stage of change are local governments at present? Isn't the proposed amendment a proverbial turning back with a Vistula bat? It is worth reminding here that the law on foster care has already been amended several times, among others. in 2014, the obligation to listen to the child's opinion, to change the control of foster parents, to finance the stay of children in health care establishments and the income of children in such care. The changes made made it possible to react quickly as soon as there were doubts about proper care. We hope that next changes will also be changes in the right direction in the future. Good changes. The PSL Club will express its position during the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u399	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 20 July. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Polak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u400	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The first parliamentary leave period of this term of office is coming up. Therefore, I would traditionally like to encourage you and your fellow Members to take a summer vacation to visit my family's district of Wadowice, rich in various attractions, not just tourist attractions. The capital of this county, as it is not hard to guess, is the city of Wadowice, where the Holy Father John Paul was born and grew up. II. Being in this city, you cannot miss the most modern St. John Paul's Family Home Museum II, which illustrates his entire life in an extremely accessible and readable way. Apart from the unique atmosphere of the narrow streets and the beautifully restored magnificent market, this town also has a charming location surrounded by the mountains of the central part of the Small Beskid. However, it is not possible to be in Wadowice and not visit the nearby Kalwaria Zebrzydowska, where there is a 17th-century passive-maritime shrine with Calvary trails hovering among the forest hills beautified by the chapel, which can undoubtedly be called the pearls of Baroque architecture. This place is included in the UNESCO World Cultural Heritage List. It is also impossible to be in Kalwaria Zebrzydowska and not to visit another municipality in the district of Wadowice called Lanckorona, which boasts a unique market with perfectly preserved 19th-century wooden buildings. Nearly 250 years ago, it was one of the main battle sites of the Confederate Polish troops with the Russian army, and witnessing those events are available for tourists the ruins of the castle on the Lanckoron Hill. I would never have forgiven myself if I had not encouraged you to visit the largest district of Wadowice, the municipality of Andrychów, located at the foot of the Beskid Małe, which is rich not only in an excellent sports and recreational base, but also in unique landscapes that allow for hiking, cycling, horse riding and winter sports. There are numerous mountain hiking trails leading here, among others. John Paul's Congregation II, where at an altitude of approx. 900 m above sea level. there is a mountain shrine and a tourist hostel. Just off the main road from Wadowice to Andrychów there is a complex of as many as five parks which are part of Inwald Park, where in one place we can admire on a scale of 1:25 miniatures of the most famous buildings from all over the world, among others. temple on the Acropolis, Colosseum, Statue of Liberty, Cross Tower in Pisa, Great Wall of China, Eiffel Tower, Arc de Triomphal, White House etc. There is also a medieval forerunner and a Dinoland amusement park presenting a collection of over 50 original dinosaurs. There is no shortage of places to relax, entertainment and luxury accommodation in a hotel with elegant décor and excellent cuisine. In Andrychow itself, summer recreation provides a complex of modern outdoor swimming pools with its own catering and hotel facility. Year-round tourist attractions guarantee beautifully located here in the mountain town Rzyki resort Black Groń. It offers its guests a base of accommodation, a rope park over a rolling stream, a swimming pool, a spa, tennis courts and excellent skiing conditions in winter. Another noteworthy tourist facility in the municipality of Andrychów is located in Kocierska Pass, a modern mountain conference and recreation centre Kocierz, from which a magnificent panorama is spread to the suburbs and even several dozen kilometers away Silesian cities. It provides its guests with a high standard accommodation base, a stylish regional inn, swimming pool, summer aquapark, spa and many other advantages that this facility can offer. However, in order to reach it, you need to overcome a four-kilometer rolling asphalt, comfortable and winding mountain road, from which there are unforgettable views. It is worth noting that in the southern part of the district of Wadowice there is also an end to a powerful investment financed from the state budget called: the construction of a water reservoir in Świnna Poręba, a large part of which will soon disappear under a glass of water of the future reservoir. It is therefore worth looking at the momentum and architectural solutions used for this great hydrological investment. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must assure you that the holiday spent in the district of Wadowicki will certainly provide many opportunities [[♪ The bell ♪]] for a wonderful rest and will also provide many positive impressions and will leave unforgettable memories. Once again, I cordially invite you and thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u401	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Simon Giżyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! All of them, and those growing in numbers, admirers of Richard Petru's erudition, are calmed and we are pleased to inform you that recently Richard Petru, as a result of a solid query of his own, has determined and informed the public that these are not pillars and philosophers, but philatelists collect postage stamps. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u403	Thank you very much, sir. And I would like to ask the floor of Catherine Chechara. Mrs Giżyński, as short as it will be for Mr Giżyński, this will be amazing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u404	But I've been a little longer. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, much has been said about the slaughter in Volyn, and I too from this place would like to say a few words about these events. And other people slit their throats, and those murderers of UPA were not afraid of God. On Donkow's Decalogue, based on their call, he ordered that innocent Polish blood be shed. Burned villages and burned churches cried out for vengeance for sacrifices and ashes. Mieczysław Habuda, Kędzierzyn-Koźle. Tough memory - so metaphorically can be described as a testimony of genocide of Poles living in the East End. On July 11, we celebrated the 73rd anniversary of the mass attack of Ukrainian nationalists on Polish villages in Volyn. In total, about 100,000 people died at the hands of Ukrainian nationalists during the Volynian crime in 1943 and 1944. Poles. The first mass murder on the Polish population in Volyn was carried out on 9 February 1943 by a branch of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army, which murdered 173 Poles in the village of Parósa in the Sarne district. The crime was particularly aggravated in July 1943, and around 10,000 were murdered at the time. Poles. The fact that people were gathered in churches on Sunday 11 July was used. There have been murders in temples, among others. in Poryck and Kisielin. About 50 Catholic churches in Volyn were burned and demolished. Crimes in Poles were committed in 1865 villages in Volyn. The largest massacre was carried out in Wola Ostrowiecka, where 628 Poles were murdered. The crimes on Poles were often carried out with extreme cruelty - they were burned alive, thrown into a well, axes and forks were used, victims were deliberately tortured before death, and women were raped. Many pains and sufferings are written on the pages of our history. We Poles know exactly what occupation, pain and struggle are until the last drop of blood. Many gave their lives to protect their loved ones. So we should not only cultivate and cultivate the memory of tragic events, but also pay tribute to all those who have died, so that the memory of them will never be lost. Unfortunately, many of our compatriots know little about the slaughter in Volyn. Research proves that the Volyn crime still remains a white stain in the Polish collective memory. Almost half of Poles have no basic knowledge about it. As much as 47% The respondents declared that they did not know or who was the perpetrator of the Volyn crime or who was its victim. Ladies and gentlemen! Memory is the highest expression of homage to victims, therefore you must do everything to preserve this memory. In a small village, in Niesmysłowice in Prudnik commune in Opole Voivodeship, there is a great interest in historical knowledge. Some of the villagers come from the area of the Eastern Kresów. These inhabitants have a rich past and a strong identity. Thanks to the initiative group 10 July ub. The monument commemorating the murdered by the Ukrainian nationalists of Poles from the village of Puzniki was solemnly unveiled. In the monument there is a plaque with the inscription "Remembrance of the Puzniki villagers" in the district of Buczacki, who lost their lives as a result of the pogrom on February 12, 1945, and other Poles from the Eastern Kresów, who died, murdered and tortured in 1939, 45, whose loved ones came to Silesian land and found their home here. In the church there is a plaque commemorating the names of people murdered in the East. Among other things, such actions contribute [[♪ The bell ♪]] to preserve your memory. That is why I would like to pay my respects to Mayor Prudnik, the Niemysłowice community, and especially to the parish priest of the local parish for his great commitment and efforts to keep this memory among us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u405	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mrs Bernadet Krynicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! 12 July 2016 Mayor of Augustów, Mr Wojciech Walik and Fr. Wojciech Jabłoński, a canonary, organized celebrations commemorating the victims of the Augustow raid. On that day in the Basilica of the Minor Sacred Heart of Jesus His Excellency Fr. bp. Jerzy Mazur celebrated a solemn Mass in behalf of the victims of the Augustan manhunt and their families. The epitaph was unveiled and consecrated in tribute to the victims of the Augustan raid, on which the inscription "Ziemio! Don't hide our blood so that our scream doesn't stop... Suwałski's Armored Artillery Division. Marshal Józef Piłsudski read the appeal of the fallen inhabitants of the lands covered by the crime of the Augustów manhunt. On 17 July in Giby, the 71st anniversary of the Augustów manhunt was held by the municipality of Giby, Mr.Jan Kramnicz, the Roman Catholic parish in Gibach and the Memorial Union of the Victims of the Augustów Oblast in 1945. The Augusto manhunt, sometimes called "little Katyn," is considered to be the biggest communist post-war crime in Poles. In July 1945, units of the Red Army assisted by NKVD, LWP, UB and MO carried out a wide-ranging pacification operation covering the areas of Augustów Forest and its surroundings. Pacific troops searched forests and villages, arresting suspects for contact with an independence guerrilla. The purpose of this action was primarily to break down and eliminate underground and anti-communist troops in the Augustów and Suwałk region. A similar anti-party action was carried out in August 1945 also in Lithuania. After July 12, 1945, the Soviets arrested more than 7,000 as part of a grand pacification action. people in Suwałczyn. Some of them were imprisoned and brutally investigated. Some of the arrested after a while were released, but about 600 people, recognized by the Communists as activists of the underworld of independence, enemies of the new order, disappeared without news. They were probably murdered on the basis of the same decision. The investigation in this case is conducted by the Białystok branch of IPN. So far, the fate of the victims, the burial site, and the murderers have not been determined. Multiple requests for legal assistance addressed to the Russian party remained unanswered. The publication of the Russian historian Nikita Pietrov can help explain the fate of the missing persons in the Augustow raid. He published a secret cipher of the commander of military counterintelligence to Marshal Lavrientii Beria, the head of the NKVD, including among others. plans for the further fate of the detained persons at that time. It is located there, among others. description of the planned liquidation of almost 600 prisoners captured during the round-up in the area of Augustów. It shows that the execution was similar to that of 1940 in Katyn. To this day, the mystery remains the place of its execution. It can be said that the first small step towards the discovery of the truth was taken because at the beginning of this year, IPN historians found several thousand pages of documents related to the Augustow manhunt on the online portal with materials from the Russian Ministry of Defence archives. Several hundred photocopies have already been translated and their authenticity has been confirmed by a specially appointed expert historian. Let us hope that the first step will be followed by the next one, by which we can determine the circumstances of this crime and the final number of victims and find their burial sites. On 12 July, pursuant to the Seym Act passed last year, we celebrate the Memorial Day of the Victims of the Augustow Obstacle of July 1945. In the village of Giby in Suwałszczyzna there is a ten-metre cross symbolizing the burial of the missing people with the inscription: They died because they were Poles. There are 530 names on the plates. It is the duty of every Pole to care for the memory of those who fought and gave their lives for their homeland. We cannot forget the biggest, unexplained crime committed by the Soviets on Polish citizens after the end of World War II. The Augusto manhunt reveals the far-reaching national, social, political effects of the Soviet Union's criminal method. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The areas covered by the round-up - Augustów, Suwałski and the part of Sokólski - were soaked with patriotism before the war, which penetrated into various social and professional groups. Our enemies saw it exactly. They knew about the dynamic activity of the AK, that it constituted a conscious, organized Polish force, and committed crimes to deprive us of this force. Such an act of deliberate arrest, unlawful interrogation, and ultimately genocide, must never be subject to statute of limitations. It is our common duty to get to the truth about the Augustan manhunt and its victims so that they can be honored at their graves. Let the memory of our heroes never disappear. Praise the heroes! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u407	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday at the Radom Cathedral the Archbishop's funeral ceremony ended. Zygmunt Zimowski. In my speech today, I would like to introduce you to the character of the archbishop, a unique character who has already permanently entered into the history of the diocese of Radom. Archbishop Zygmunt Zimowski was born on 7 April 1949 in Kupinin as the son of Stanisław and Maria. After obtaining a certificate of maturity in 1967, he joined the Higher Seminary in Tarnów. He was ordained priest on 27 May 1973 in Tarnów. In 1975 he was assigned to specialist studies in dogmatic theology at the Catholic University of Lublin. There he obtained a Bachelor's degree in theology. The pneumatic dimension of the dogmatic constitution. Then, according to the will of the Bishop of Tarnowski, Jerzy Ablewicz continued his studies in Innsbruck, Austria. From 1 February 1983 he began working in the Vatican Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, in parallel helping in pastoral ministry in the parish of St. Our Lady of Good Council in Rome, and since 1991 he has been a chaplain in the Mother House of Sisters Benedictine. He was appointed Bishop of Radom by St. John Paul II in the Great Thursday, 28 March 2008. He held this function until 2009. In 2008, Archbishop Zimowski convened the Synod of the Radom Diocese, whose aim was to increase the participation of parishioners in Holy Masses, to stop young people in the Church. He wanted to increase the number of parish councils that had a great impact on the spiritual life of the parishioners and their activities for the Church's development. He worked with Cardinals for 19 years. Ratzinger in the Vatican Congregation for the Doctrine of Faith. In 2009, Pope Benedict XVI appointed him President of the Pontifical Council for the Health Service and Ministry of the Sick and raised him to the dignity of the Archbishop. Archbishop Zygmunt Zimowski returned to the Vatican. On 4 May 2011, he became a member of the Congregation for Canonization Affairs and a year later. The Bishops' Congregation. The primary task of the Pontifical Council for the Health Service and Ministry of Sickness is to promote research and activities carried out by international organisations, groups and Catholic associations in the field of health. It had previously functioned as a Commission for the Ministry of Health and was part of the Pontifical Council for Secular Affairs. The Commission coordinated the activities of various ecclesiastical institutions dealing with health care and its problems and explained and disseminated the teaching of the Church in this area. She also took these tasks after she was raised to the rank of the Pontifical Council for the Ministry of Health. One of her tasks is also to prepare the World Sick Day celebrated on 11 February. This task was commissioned by John Paul II on the 11th anniversary of the assassination of his life. Archbishop Zimowski was very involved in the work of the council. He always tried to actively participate in all events and pass on his knowledge and good advice to the parishioners. The Archbishop asked: Why does Our Lady leave heaven from time to time and come to mankind? Because she wants to remind us that there is heaven, that you cannot tear the earth from the sky, and today some would like to tear the earth from the sky. Let's not let the earth get away from the sky. The Archbishop pointed out three dimensions of responsibility that should be fulfilled in the suffering experienced by the sick. It is responsibility for yourself and your salvation, responsibility for others, like St. Paul: bear one another burden, and responsibility for the Church. We're the Church. Sometimes we hear voices: Christ yes, Church no. What an inconsistency. After all, the Church was born from the pierced side of Christ. There the sacraments were born, and among them also the sacrament of the sick, which we receive today. We must love the Church. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's hard to go to the target alone. That's what Archbishop Zimowski said. He passed away on July 12, just before midnight. He was recently awarded by President Andrzej Duda of the Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. The Archbishop died in a hospital in Dąbrowa Tarnowska after long cancer as a beautiful example of the chaplain of sick people, people who go away in suffering. At the last moment, a few hours before his death, Pope Francis called him personally. The Holy Father gave him his blessing and assured the sick archbishop of his spiritual communion and prayer. We, too, will always remember Archbishop. Zygmun Zimowski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u409	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Szulowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Already in several days, August 1st, we Poles will pay tribute to the heroes of the Warsaw Uprising. For us, inhabitants of Puławy and Puławy County, a special symbol of the memory at which we gather each year on the anniversary of the uprising, is the plaque dedicated to Krystyna Krahelska, located on the wall of one of the buildings of the Czartoryski palace complex in Puławy. Krystyna Krahelska is our hero of the uprising, connected with the city through work at the State Institute of Rural Farms - now the Institute of Cultivation, Fertilization and Soil Science - located in the mentioned palace of Czartoryski. In the years 1936-1937 she posed for the author of the statue of the Warsaw Mermaid of Ludwice Nitschowa. The author of her monument said: The face of the Warsaw Mermaid sculpted by me is the face of Krystyna monumentalized, so that it is not so easy to recognize Krysia walking in the streets, which might embarrass her. For she walked in the streets of Warsaw straight, tall, shining smile of inner youthful joy and strength, ready for all that is fair, just and beautiful. The years of occupation are for Krystyna Krahelska, in addition to the mentioned work, the period of conspiracy in the Union of Armed Fighting, performing the tasks of the liaison, couriers for special instruction to the area of Novgorodczyn, carrying weapons, working as a nurse in the county hospital in Włodawa, training girls for the sanitary service. Since May 1943, she has been in Warsaw, so she could not not not participate in the uprising. She fought as a paramedic at 1108th platoon of the 3rd squadron of the 1st Deer Division. 7. The regiment of the Lublin National Army. On the first day of the uprising, during the platoon attack on the Press House building, a wounded colleague was killed and died in the morning of August 2. Krystyna Krahelska is also a poet, author of poems and songs, including the most popular soldier's song of Poland Fighting Hey, boys, bayonet for weapons. Soon, as every year, we will be able to pay tribute to our heroine by offering flowers and offering prayer. Part of her memory, part of her memory of the heroes of the uprising. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u411	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On July 24, a policeman's day is celebrated, otherwise known as the Police Saint. It was established in July 1995 in order not only to commemorate the establishment of the State Police in 1919, but also to pay attention to the dedication and danger of policemen's work. This day is a great opportunity to express gratitude to all policemen and police officers for their invaluable and self - sacrificing service to the public, as well as to express their appreciation for the responsible and professional performance of their duties. It is the police that are the foundation of a stable and secure state. On the occasion of the Festival of Police, all police officers, police officers and police officers make the most sincere wishes for personal and professional well-being. I wish you a lot of health, optimism, happiness and perseverance and success in the daily fight for the safety of our citizens. I would also like to extend my heartfelt thanks to your families and loved ones who support you, whose love, friendship and kindness are essential for your duties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u413	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Cicholska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u414	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! From the first moments of my mandate, when I met with voters in the Mławski district, they asked me to intervene in important health care matters. I also received requests from employees and hospital directors in Mława. The hospital has been well-managed, modernized for 4 years and cannot ask for an orthopedic and diabetes clinic to be contracted. The orthopedic unit is located in a new wing built and equipped with EU funds, has its own staff, and for many years despite repeated requests from the director it cannot obtain even a modest contract, which means that the equipment and base are not used and, above all, those in need cannot obtain adequate assistance. The situation is similar in the case of diabetes clinics. Despite the absence of many other specialist clinics in Mława, due to the number of patients forced to wait in multi-month queues in neighbouring counties, the diabetes clinic appears to be an urgent necessity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u415	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Waldemar Andzel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u416	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! July 16th this year We celebrated the 80th anniversary of the death of Gustav Orlicz-Dreszer - a soldier of the Polish Legions, a member of the Polish Military Organization, a Major General of the Polish Army, a participant of the First World War and a war with the Bolsheviks. Gustav Orlicz-Dreszer was born on 2 October 1889 in Jadów. He was 11 when his family moved to Czestochowa. That's where he and his siblings went to Government Secondary School. He was also a member of the conspiracy Youth Union of the Polish ZET. Because of his patriotic activity as a student of the eighth grade, he was arrested and imprisoned by the Tsarian authorities. After graduating from the 4th High School of General Education and Graduation, he began his legal studies at the University of Jan Kazimierz in Lviv. He then studied trade in Belgium and France. Due to the outbreak of the First World War, Gustav Orlicz-Dreszer was mobilized to the Russian army as lieutenant of the cavalry reserve. He's been assigned to Squadron Three 14. The Mitaw Huzar regiment. He deserted and joined Belina's squad and then recharged ranks 1. Regiment of Ulans of Polish Legions and 1. The Legion Infantry regiment. After the oath crisis, he was interned and released only in 1918. After the end of the war, Gustav Orlicz-Dreszer was appointed commander of the military district in Chelm. At that time, he managed to disarm the Austrian garrison stationed there and ordered a draft to 1. Szwoleżerów Regiment and 35. The infantry regiment. He also participated in the Polish-Bolshevik war. After the Battle of Warsaw, he was appointed lieutenant and then promoted to the rank of Brigadier General. In November 1925 Orlicz-Dreszer presided over a delegation of senior officers who encouraged Józef Piłsudski to bring political order in the country. During the very coup of May Orlicz, he commanded the troops of the marshal who went to Warsaw. When the Sanctification took over, Orlicz-Dreszer became involved in the development of the maritime economy. In 1930, he became President of the Board of the Main Maritime and Colonial League. On his initiative, the Maritime Defence Fund was established, which was eventually transformed into the National Defence Fund. His job was to fund the country's defense. The decision of the President of the Republic of Poland was the re-established position of the Air Defence Officer of the State. General Gustav Orlicz-Dreszer was a friend of the youth, which was expressed in support of scouts' sailing teams. Orlicz felt that in children and young people, an entrepreneurial, courageous and loving attitude should be shaped. Gustav Orlicz-Dreszer died tragically on 16 July 1936 in the crash of the RWD-9 aircraft over Gdynia. He boarded his ship to greet his returning wife Elwina from the United States. The machine, which was flown by the general and two other officers, fell into the waters of the Gulf of Gdansk. Although rescue operations were carried out immediately, no one was rescued. The reason for this terrible tragedy has not yet been clearly established. General Orlicz-Dreszer was buried in Gdynia at the Navy Cemetery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u417	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u418	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today, the Sejm has again taken up a debate on its final position on the Volyn massacre, the genocide that was carried out by the animal hordes of Ukrainian nationalists on the Polish nation. It is good that, following the example given to us by the Senate and its clear position, the Sejm regains its face and, as a result of today's debate, prepares an appropriate resolution. This Parliamentary reflection was also enhanced by the responsiveness to social reactions, especially from the environment of the continuances that reached us a few days earlier, during the celebrations of 11 July this year, and every day when politicians wiped their mouths with phrases of kindness to their demands. Playing political cynicism, playing tragedies for their instrumental interests with this action of the Senate and the Sejm will finally be stopped. However, the most important thing is that this silent scream, the shadow of the beastly murdered in the Kress finally finds comfort, so that the pain is no longer so overwhelming, because it is not called, because it is not heard enough widely by political environments, but vibrating in high registers in the consciousness of the nation. And it is the people who generally know better, by the fact of their long term and through their accumulated national experiences, what to do, and do so, even against or against the will of politicians. Therefore, we should bow our heads before this nation, our nation, for the relentlessness and determination to preserve in the memory of the nation the events of 1939 and 1947, especially the Volyn slaughter and the genocide carried out on the Ends. In the last paragraph, expressing satisfaction that the stubbornness of the environment of the continuances and some of the Members and Senators led to the preparation of these resolutions, it is necessary to apologize to the environment and these people for all the wickedness they have suffered as a result of their determination. And it took years. Thanking for their fortitude, I bow low and respect the courage to fight for the honor and memory of the victims of the slaughter in Volhynia. For the nation is the nobler, the more worthy it is to cherish its own past and bear the burden of the suffering it suffers. A tribute to the fallen, honor and glory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u419	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u420	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of witnesses and enthusiasts of history, especially because of the merit of the World Association of National Army Soldiers in Łukow and the circle in Trzebieszów in commemorating historical truth, I would like to mention and commemorate the tragic battle of Gręzówka which took place exactly 72 years ago. On July 20, 1944 between Gręzówka and the Kryńszczak grove during the execution of combat tasks separate branch 1. Battalion 35. Infantry Regiment of the Home Army of Jata, mostly from Kedywy Capt. Ostoja - Wenceslas Rejmaka, in the strength of 64 soldiers under the command of Lt. Zbigniew - Felix Bary, fought a fierce battle with the Nazi invader. The purpose of the action was to enslave the commander of the Waffen SS division. The Germans, in possession of information about the intention of the action, set up an ambush. Twenty-five soldiers of the Home Army were killed in an unequal fight. The wounded Germans were killed at the battlefield, among others. a young, 22-year-old paramedic hanging from the tree - Jadwiga Szulc-Holnicka. Many of them were from Łukow, from Trzebieszów and surroundings, including former scouts and middle school students from Łukow and students of Warsaw universities. This event commemorates the monument erected by the road of Luków - Siedlce. There's a full list of those who died on the monument. Their graves are located in the cemetery in Lukow and in Trzebieszów. These events took place 3 days before the liberation of Łukow and on the eve of the start of the operation of the Storm and the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising. This action, even perfidiously used by the post-war regime to fight the independence underground, has been evaluated differently. Thus we read in the recollections of death, an extract from the command: The bad fate interrupted their young lives, the sacrifice of life and the blood of so many brave soldiers was complete - a great sacrifice, very striking to us, the others. The hearts of all the soldiers of their fellow troops were covered with great mourning, and the heart of their captain was torn apart with great pain and regret. And with this pain, the hearts of the entire society of the district of Archiv, because we are all soldiers of the Home Army, and we find it difficult to accept that they, the best of us, left us so quickly and so forever. True, deep grief did not break us, did not scare us, on the contrary - they left us a clear and clear way how to live, work and die for the country. Let this holy Polish land be light to the bright, crystal characters. Hello to their memory. That's the soldier's bottom, that's the soldier's fate. The families of fallen soldiers remained pain and mourning condolences. The fallen were not forgotten by the comrades of the weapons. At the initiative of the World Union, the Soldiers of the National Army have their collective graves in Łukow and in Trzebieszów. Anniversary celebrations are held every July at these graves and at the place of battle. As descendants of people fighting for the freedom and independence of our homeland, we owe them memory and honor for the sacrifice of blood and life they gave in the field of glory. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u421	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u422	In Poland there is a holiday period, many compatriots take vacations, traveling to different parts of the world, admiring foreign places and cultures. But according to the proverb you praise, you do not know yours and Poland is a country full of interesting places. With this statement I encourage everyone who is looking for peace, fresh air, green forest, clean river, natural nature. I encourage those who want to rest away from the city noise, in peace and quiet. I encourage you to take advantage of the offer of Podkarpacie as a region in many places almost virgin, or at least one in which human interference in nature is not so visible. I encourage you to use Podkarpackie agrotourism farms located in picturesque lands. Farm tourism is an evolving form of tourism, by some it is called tourism of tomorrow. Its development is due to the fact that more and more people from cities want to rest in the open air, away from noise, noise and pollution. This is also due to the fact that agrotourism services are much cheaper than other tourism services. Another reason for the development of agrotourism is the desire to make a profit by villagers who establish agrotourism farms, treating them as a source of income. Farm tourism is more popular in areas with special tourist attractiveness, but it also develops in areas that might seem less attractive to tourists. Farm tourism is a form of rest taking place in rural areas of an agricultural nature, based on accommodation and recreational activities related to an agricultural or equivalent holding and its surroundings (natural, productive and service). The area of Podkarpackie voivodship has natural values attracting tourists, among others. interested in agrotourism. This guarantees a continuous influx of tourists to farmers engaged in such activities. Currently, the most attractive districts, i.e. Bieszczadzki, leski, sanocki, Krośnieński and Jasielski, concentrate more than 75% all agrotourism farms in the voivodship. This focus is due to the presence in the area of these touristly attractive areas: Bieszczad, Low Beskid and Western Beskid, which translates into a constant and significant influx of tourists. In 2015, the voivodship visited nearly 1 million tourists, giving it an eighth position in terms of number of visits among voivodships. The number of visitors to Podkarpacie is growing steadily. 2016 will be the year in which 1 million visitors will be exceeded. The agro-tourist's gonna make a difference. The development of agrotourism favours many features of Podkarpackie agriculture. The low degree of mechanisation of agricultural production and the modest use of chemical resources can be used as the start of organic farming. The food produced in this way becomes a regional product, also recognized outside the voivodship. Another incentive in Podkarpat is the Green Velo cycle route, which extends in the area of the five eastern voivodships of our country. Nearly 2000-kilometer trail is a magnet for bike fans. The Podkarpacka part is over 420 km. The picturesque villages, clean air are the advantages of Podkarpacie. But also along the trail, agrotourism farms are created as places where enthusiasts of two circles can find accommodation and even stay for a few days and get to know the value of the region. Such a tourist model is the future, because there is no better rest than the active one combined with discovering new corners of our beautiful homeland. So I encourage you to visit Podkarpacie, not only on holiday time, but also outside the tourist season. We are very hospitable and everyone is welcome here. We provide a comprehensive rest, recharge the Battery and unforgettable impressions and memories. Podkarpackie is an open space for everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-sejm-23-2.u423	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 21 July 2016 at 10 p.m. 9. All of you, good night. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 18]]
