ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am calling on the secretaries of today's proceedings Agata Borowiec, Małgorzata Golinska, Krystian Jarubas and Wojciech the King. The first part of the session will be Mr Agata Borowiec and Mr Małgorzata Golińska. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Krystian Jarubas. I consider the minutes of the 27th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of the point: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Law of the Enforcement Code, print No 887. At the 27th meeting, the Sejm did not vote: - on applications for rejection at first reading of Parliament's draft laws amending the Civil Code and on the sale of food by farmers and amending certain other laws, - on the applications of the City Police Commissioner in Łódź for approval by the Sejm of criminal liability for the violation of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and the Director of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office for the criminal liability of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering these votes. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on Competitions for Doctors and Dentists and certain other Acts, - amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes, - ratification of the Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930, adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014. The reports shall be in prints 898, 911 and 896 respectively. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The High Sejm, the Council of Ministers, has submitted draft laws: - amending the Budget Law for 2016, - on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2017. The designs are 916 and 917 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. The design is print number 917. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm hold an average debate in the joint discussion on draft laws: - the budget for 2017, - on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2017. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in a joint discussion in the first reading of the draft legislation on loans. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should hear three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on government activities related to the acquisition of helicopters for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, which was requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. At the moment, I would like to inform you that Members have come forward with formal proposals. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski from the club of the Polish People's Party. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The case, which has been of great interest to the public lately, concerns the possible signature of the Cotonou Agreement between the European Union and Canada, an agreement which is intended to liberalize the movement of investment, as well as capital, agricultural products. The opposition to this agreement signals and expresses many backgrounds. These are environments related to agriculture, consumer protection and economic environments which say that this will result in excessive growth and such a well-developed corporate system. The Polish People's Party requested information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada, the Ceuta Agreement. This item is not on the agenda. I therefore request, Mr Marshal, that the agenda be changed, that the Senior Convention be convened first, that this matter be discussed at the Convention and that this item be added to the agenda. This agreement is not only of great concern to the environments I have mentioned - I will mention them again: farmers, consumers, economic activists - it also raises concerns among trade union organisations, workers, including the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity), which in the form of a communication, a statement signed by Piotr Duda, said: We consider it completely unacceptable to implement such a controversial document without any previous public debate on the consequences of this decision. The trade unionists stress that the CETA negotiations were far from transparent and did not involve representatives of national parliaments, i.e. actual representatives of nations with a mandate to make such decisions. It also argues that it is very concerned about the actions of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Poland regarding the possible adoption of this agreement. [[Voice from the hall: A member of the government of PSL signed this!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, in response to all these demands, I propose, as at the beginning, Mr Marshal, to convene the Senior Convention and to put it on the agenda: the information of the President of the Council of Ministers so that we can have a substantive discussion on this subject in this Parliament so that this discussion does not take place without the participation of the Polish Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And where have you been for eight years? You signed the contract and now you're talking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u3	Please? [[It's against.]] The motion, the vote against it, right? Mr Dominik Tarczyński with a vote against.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A vote against, a vote against the hypocrisy of PSL [[Applause]] ... [[Yes, sir!]] ...the hypocrisy of those persons who negotiated this agreement between 2009 and 2014. [[Yes, sir! And they signed it!]] When you negotiated this deal, you were quiet. Now we hear it's not you, it's the European Commission. [[And piss!]] Who's in the European Commission? Aliens or Mrs. Hübner, Mrs. Bienkowska? Who's the commissioner? [[Yes, sir!]] You had great friends, a great position in the European Union, you negotiated a bad deal, and now you're criticizing it. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: And you sign it.]] We will not be placed in the position of those responsible for the content of the contract. [[Yes, sir!]] [[If she's so bad, why are you signing her?]] The only thing we can do is give a huge mandate to Parliament. The resolution we have set out includes the need to acquire a qualified majority. Two-thirds of the votes. Any ratification - I repeat, possible - will be the ratification of the Sejm, not just members of the Law and Justice Club. So do not lie to Poles, now do not enter the white horse, defending Poland, because you have made Poland in a very difficult situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u5	Mr Maliszewski, as corrected? There you go. [[What corrigendum?]] In the Regulation Correction Mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Tarczyński misunderstood me, and that is why I must correct it. [[Yeah.]] I was just quoting the statement of Piotr Duda, the head of the Solidarity Party, who is not from the Polish People's Party and, I suppose, is not a hypocrite in your opinion. [[Applause]] Mr Piotr Duda said clearly: I am very concerned about the actions of the representatives of the Polish government - not the government of PSL-Citizen's Platform [[Joy in the Chamber]] - concerning the possible adoption of the Ceuta agreement. We consider it completely unacceptable to implement such a controversial document without having previously held any public debate on the consequences of this decision. And here's the point: The trade unionists stress that the SETA negotiations were far from transparent and did not involve representatives of national parliaments... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Hit your chest!]] ...that is, the real representatives of a nation with a mandate to make such decisions. [[It's about you!]] So much for my words. Mr Tarczynski, today is the movement of the PiS government, not the PO-PSL government... [[PO-PSL!]] ...because regardless of how the negotiations were conducted, whether we agree with this procedure or not, today's movement is to ratify or not. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] This deal is harmful, so we're asking you not to ratify it. [[But the decision will only be made. What are they after? This resolution should have been supported.]] And Parliament is for us to have a discussion in this Parliament in this House. You can't say we don't deserve this discussion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u7	Thank you. I remind you that we had a discussion on this at the previous session of the Sejm. [[PSL signed and pretended to be innocent.]] And the Member... I don't understand. [[You referred to me, I wanted to correct.]] Oh, correct the corrigendum? This is actually a special situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! I think I've been misunderstood because no one's talking about whether the Law and Justice or the club, whether the government is for or against it today. The resolution concerned a possible ratification procedure. Don't bullshit people that we're investigating something at the signing stage. Today there is no discussion at all about this. Moreover, we have pointed out in the resolution a majority of 2/3 that this decision will not only be in the hands of the Law and Justice Club. [[Government position!]] So don't manipulate me. You're misleading people. First you negotiated the agreement - I repeat, negotiations ended in 2014 - and now you want to be heroes defending Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u9	Thank you. High Seym! I would like to explain to all Members that the matter, the request of the club of the Polish People's Party, was discussed, was discussed at a meeting of the Bureau and the Senior Convention. I have decided to refer this proposal to the European Commission for European Affairs with a written recommendation addressed to the chairman of the committee so that she will examine this proposal without delay. At the same time, I informed the Convention that I would address the President of the Council of Ministers as soon as possible, i.e. When I get out of here, I'm gonna go sign a letter asking the government to come up with information about what's going on here. Member Tomasz Cimoszewicz, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor now. [[Just don't throw the tablet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 - request for a break, request for information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the real reasons for taking back protection during the trip to the three former presidents. [[Applause]] We believe that this is a hit on national security, because each of these three former presidents was responsible, made decisions that could endanger his safety for the rest of his life, namely the removal of Soviet troops from Poland, the sending of a contingent of soldiers for war in Iraq or the extension of the military contingent in Afghanistan. I think that's enough motivation. Here we should also draw attention to the fact - and I would like to ask the Prime Minister to answer - how the taking of protection and savings on the three former presidents have to grant protection to a friend of the BOR, a friend of the Prime Minister, the head of her law firm, Beata Kemp, who has recently had protection of the BOR. How do you save money on the one hand to spend on the other? [[But what is it?]] We're asking for this information. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u11	This case and this request of the Civic Platform club were also the subject of a Senior Convention meeting. Before I inform you of the decision I have made on this matter, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The government of SLD and PSL adopted a bill that he signed in 1996... [[Kwasniewski!]] ... Alexander Kwasniewski, President of the SLD. Under this law, former presidents are protected only on the territory of the Republic of Poland. [[Yes, sir!]] And that's the answer. Rights in the Republic of Poland must be respected, and that's all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Will President Duda be unprotected as well?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u13	Thank you, Minister. This request, ladies and gentlemen, I asked the Board of Administration and Home Affairs to consider, because I was curious myself and I did not remember this provision. Thank you, Minister. In any case, the request that the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs examines the proposal, takes note of the information and communicates it to the High House... [[We need to change the recipe.]] ...information, possibly requests and conclusions that he will adopt after the meeting. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u14	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Economy and Development - h.m. 10, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 14, - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at 3 p.m. 14, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 3.30 p.m., - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 17, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 18, - Public Finance - hour. 7:30. Communication on the meetings of the teams. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: people with visual impairment - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Police - hour 13.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Integrated Multidisciplinary System of Prevention, Diagnostics and Treatment of Cancer Diseases in Western Poland - hour. 15. The Parliamentary Team for Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism invites you to the conference Start in Poland - Start in Poland, 3 p.m. 11, column room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u15	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the budget law for 2016 (Print No.916). I ask Vice President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Development and Finance of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to present the justification for the bill. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And I kindly ask your Members to take up their seats or to silence their conversations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of this draft Law on amending the Budget Law for 2016 is to allow 70% of payments in the current year. advance payments for direct payments to agricultural producers for 2016 under the common agricultural policy of the European Union amounting to 10.3 billion. This is allowed by the European Commission regulation of 8 September, even in its letter of 9 September, the European Commission encourages European countries to forward advance payments to farmers due to the difficult situation on the agricultural markets of the European Union. The payment of these advances is also intended to mitigate the negative effects of the crisis on agricultural markets caused by the fall in agricultural fetal prices, also linked to the Russian embargo. The proposed amendment is to reduce the planned revenue of the European budget under the common agricultural policy by PLN 8.9 billion in 2016 and increase the deficit of the European budget by the same identical amount. This will allow for the implementation of the aforementioned. Target. Therefore, the 2016 Budget Act proposes the following changes: reducing the projected revenue of the European budget under the common agricultural policy to 17.6 billion and thus reducing the revenue of the European budget to 53,4 billion. As a result, the budget deficit for Europe will amount to 18.2 billion. And the second element - a change in the deficit of the European budget implies a change in the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. Therefore, the total amount of planned revenue of the State budget of PLN 338 billion and the total amount of planned expenditure of the State budget of PLN 265.1 billion are fixed. The planned balance of revenue and expenditure of the state budget will amount to almost PLN 73 billion. Given that the proposed change concerns only the deficit of the budget of European funds, it has no impact on the deficit of the public finance sector according to ESA 2010, while the result of the proposed change may be an increase in public debt by a maximum of PLN 9 billion. I've been round here before I said: 8.9 billion PLN. In accordance with EU rules, the reimbursement of expenditure incurred by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund will take place in January 2017 and will contribute to the budget of European funds under the common agricultural policy. So this is a kind of transfer of funds - an earlier allocation for payments to farmers and in 3 months from now practically compensation for the common agricultural policy back to the state budget. In view of the need to achieve the purpose of the Act as soon as possible and the fact that advances can be paid from 17 October to 30 November - during this period we can pay - I propose that the Act enter into force on the day following the date of publication. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance... The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Lech Sprawka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the budget law for 2016 in print No. 916. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes this proposal. This conclusion is due to the urgent need to exploit the opportunity created by the European Commission Implementing Regulation of 8 September 2016 in view of the difficult situation on agricultural markets, according to which Member States are able to increase to 70% the amount of advances allowed for direct payments. The adoption of the bill will allow the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development to pay a 70% advance on direct payments to Polish agricultural producers for 2016 under the common agricultural policy, which will alleviate the negative effects of the crisis on agricultural markets due to falling agricultural prices. The amount of PLN 10 265 million is necessary to secure these payments between 17 October and 30 November 2016. In view of the objective reasons for non-fulfilment of the full revenue of the European budget under the common agricultural policy, it is necessary to amend the 2016 budget law in this respect - this applies to the missing amount of PLN 8971 million - by reducing the amount of revenue of the European budget in 2016 under the heading: the Common Agricultural Policy. The other changes are the implications of the above amendment. It should also be underlined that the proposed change does not affect the public finance sector deficit according to ESA 2010. Since advances can be paid from 17 October, we fully support the bill and its entry into force on the day following the date of publication. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u19	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present a position towards the Government's draft law amending the Budget Act for 2016, Parliamentary Printing No. 916. The revision of the budget law is due to the possibility of using the revision of the Union Regulation, which entered into force on 8 September 2016. According to the previous Union Regulation, Member States could pay advance payments of up to 50% in the case of direct payments before 1 December but not before 16 October. In view of the difficult situation on agricultural markets on 8 September, the European Commission decided to waive this principle and this year the countries of the European Union have the opportunity to increase to 70% the amount of advances allowed for direct payments. In the explanatory memorandum of the project, the Minister explains that this change will enable the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development to pay 70% in the current year. advances for direct payments to agricultural producers for 2016 under the common agricultural policy. The change involves among others. to increase the budget deficit of European funds by PLN 8971 million, which will allow implementation of the above mentioned. Target. Originally, the revenue and expenditure of the budget of European funds under the common agricultural policy were planned in the 2016 budget law of 26 billion. In his explanatory memorandum, the Minister states that, given that the proposed change concerns only the deficit of European funds, it has no impact on the deficit of the public finance sector. On the other hand, the proposed change will result in a maximum increase in public debt of 9 billion. However, the final amount of the debt increase will depend on the implementation of the financing process for loan needs and the resulting level of resources collected in the state budget accounts at the end of 2016. It was indicated that the payment was 70% from 17 October to 30 November 2016. Advances require almost 10 billion European funds. It is also added that due to the incomplete implementation of the revenue of the European budget under the common agricultural policy in the 2016 budget act, it is necessary to implement these expenditures under the deficit of the European budget, which is increased by 8 billion. In accordance with EU rules, the reimbursement of expenditure incurred by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund will take place in January 2017 and will contribute to the budget of European funds under the common agricultural policy. Payment of advances of 70% Direct payments will last from 17 October to 30 November. Advances will cover all 17 types of direct payments. Over PLN 14 billion is planned for direct payments for 2016. 1355,000 are applied for. farmers. These measures will come from the European Union. The payment of direct payments starts every year on 1 December and lasts until the end of June in normal mode. It is appropriate to add here that this is only a transfer at the time of payment of the direct payments due to farmers. These measures have neither increased nor been additional aid. These are measures that farmers receive annually from the European Union budget. Only their payout time has changed, which in the event of problems with their payments this year - let us recall here the problem of the ARIMR, which did not cope with the temporary payment of these payments - is worrying whether the institutions responsible for these payments They will cope with this considerable acceleration. I will quote here the words of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister. According to his statement, you have decided to help farmers, and it is as if some kind of accounting movement, purely accounting, to shift some funds over time, because the payment of these funds will be compensated in early January by a contribution from the European Union budget. As the Prime Minister said, if the government had not done so, in the normal application process these subsidies would have gone to farmers by April and even by May next year. Given the difficult situation in agriculture, e.g. African swine fever, we want to meet farmers - as the Deputy Prime Minister said. This is quite questionable aid because it is aid already planned by farmers, that is the money that farmers receive each year. Farmers know how they get it, so I don't know what this help is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question remains whether the improvement of the work of the authorities and the accounting movement in the budget law deserve the title of aid to farmers, whether it is simply the use of the possibility of improving the efficiency of the transfer of their money to farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u21	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u22	Yes, Marshal, I'm almost done. How will money of the same amount, which will enter farmers' accounts a few months earlier, help in the dramatic situation of the spread of African fever? However, the Civic Platform Club is in favour of directing this project to work in committee, although this is not a normal mode of amending the budget law. We hope that this will be an exceptional situation, that in this way we change the law, such an important law as the budget law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u23	Thank you very much, Member, thank you very much. I invite Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is undoubtedly a very difficult time for Polish agriculture, for Polish farmers. I'm very happy and thank you for the 70% payments will be paid to farmers now because farmers face many problems each year. There is a shortage of money, mainly because we have a problem with the Russian embargo. We cannot sell our goods in the east of Europe, which was still the domain of Polish agriculture several years ago. Thanks to the fact that we were able to trade with the East, not only Polish farmers received more for their goods, but also Polish entrepreneurs who started their small businesses, buying, having business contacts, could pay more for farmers. On the other hand, these markets are crumbling and the too high share of Western corporations in the Polish agri-food market leads to the fact that in the western market in Poland we have vegetables and fruits ten times more expensive than what a farmer gets at a buying point. Buy-in points also have problems because they have to compete with Western corporations, also with their prices, and therefore they pay farmers low prices. The farmer often, although we have expensive vegetables and fruits in the markets, has to throw away his goods. The lack of advanced direct sales, it is very limp in Poland. We as the Kukiz15 movement have already proposed a direct sales bill a few months ago, the government has now proposed its own. I hope that this law, in a good sense, these Kukiz entries15, which says that the farmer will be able to raise up to 70,000. carry out activities and revenue from them, enter into force and we will be able to continue to support agriculture through this law. Here you need a setup package. Kukiz15 has also proposed the Habitats Act, and we are about to proceed with the KRUS Act on non-agricultural economic activities. Thanks to this we will support agriculture and hope that this package of laws will lead to the fact that agriculture will be better in Poland. As for the next problems - the CETA and TTIP agreements in the perspective - I am a little surprised by the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, because when there was a debate on CETA, Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel was at a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. On his profiles, e.g. on Facebook, you can read that there are reservations. We are counting on a firm position on this issue, because it can actually kill Polish agriculture and then no subsidies will help. As far as this money is concerned, it will help farmers prepare for the new season. That's 70%. The aid in a difficult situation on the market will allow us to buy seeds, produce seedlings, allow us to go out in the spring, as farmers say, and then see what happens next. And that's what happens every year. Let's see what happens next, what's good for the farmer. It will not have to borrow short-term loans at the beginning of the year, it will be able to benefit from subsidies and this will help in the next year's perspective. I think so, and I would like all clubs to agree to this and be in favour of this amendment to the budget, because the field for farmers is Poland. I come from rural areas, from agricultural areas. On my way to the Sejm yesterday, I defined the word "Poland for agriculture." I was thinking and I came to the conclusion that for a farmer this field is Poland. This is such a small homeland, because farmers treat every piece of land as their little homeland. We need to take special care of agriculture because our food is produced there, because it protects us in some way, because there are generations of young Poles growing up there. I ask you to support this amendment and I wish you also to experience what farmers experience every day - the touch of this small homeland, the touch of this Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u25	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As a general rule, the Agency pays direct supplies for a given period from 1 December to 30 June of the following year, unless we have such a case as this year that the government for various reasons fails to fulfil this statutory obligation. However, Union rules allow, where justified, advance payments to be paid in advance, i.e. as the Prime Minister said, from 17 October to the end of November. This was the first time the agency took advantage of this opportunity last year. At that time she spent just over 2.5 billion PLN. Part of the holdings were excluded from the advances due to on-the-spot checks or other elements which were previously verified in the applications and as of 17 October Ub. r. could not be completed. This year, almost PLN 9 billion is to be spent on pre-paid advances, as the advances are to be covered by all agricultural holdings. The amount is, of course, secured by European Union funds on the basis of the financial envelope established in July and the area of crops approved on the basis of applications. What's going to be released now will come back to us. As far as I'm concerned, the agency has started paying money into farmers' accounts since Monday. As I understand it, it has secured measures for this purpose and does nothing that would unduly and unauthorizedly increase the deficit of European funds. There is no doubt that the situation on agricultural markets is not easy. Producers of fruit and vegetables, milk or pig farmers are experiencing another difficult year, they are experiencing a crisis. Plus, there are problems with this year's drought. It is also another year in which farmers face problems caused by weather conditions. However, the payment of advances to the extent that this year will take place is the only idea of the current government as to how to help farmers. This is, unfortunately, the saddest thing that could have happened to the Polish village, that it was firmly placed on the group, which really has no idea how to solve basic problems in the country. In fact, this is an acceleration of the payment of funds, not some kind of extradition, extra-assistance or extra-ideas that Law and Justice brings to the countryside today. Yes, this may make it easier for farmers to maintain liquidity, but it cannot be the only solution that is strategically taken as a way of solving problems in the countryside. ASF apart from Podlasie touched, as you know, Mazowsze and Lubelskie. We still have information from the area that veterinary services are running too slow, and state aid is far too small that there is no really real idea of how to stop the growing problem. Desperate farmers announce that they are deprived of additional support - of course this is not the case. just and exclusively about financial support - perhaps sometimes they will act in breach of the rules to save their little homeland, which the Member has spoken of here. In Poland, the population of pigs is, as you know, 12 million pigs, of which almost 5 million are registered in Wielkopolska. If ASF is detected there, it will be the biggest drama for us, and because I come from Wielkopolska, the more I worry about this situation. For a long time we have been calling for bioinsurance to cover the whole country, including Wielkopolska, where this population is particularly large. To this day, there's no response from the government. Then you have to put out fires like today, paying extra money. It is also necessary to address the risky implementation of the 2014-2020 RDPs. It is not only that programmes are implemented with slippage, but some of the available funds are not interested, so we need to revise the programme, think about its implementation, move resources, change. These measures can probably be used better. Just as much doubt is created by new regulations on the establishment of the Rural Development Agency. According to the projects, on 1 January they have [[♪ The bell ♪]] the Agricultural Market Agency and Agricultural Property Agency are to be liquidated and the AROW is to be established. Are we prepared for this? In view of the planned relocation by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, can the Ministry guarantee that from 1 January we will not have the chaos that will affect the Agency's next tasks?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u27	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u28	These are questions that should be answered when discussing measures from the European Union. Of course, today's amendment as a club Modern support to move this to committee and thus help farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u29	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u30	But once again, we stress that it can't be the only idea...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u31	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u32	...solving problems in the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u33	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! At the beginning, congratulations for the courage, because indeed the transfer of funds to direct payments and their payment from the budget of this year, when there are certain reserves and we know that the budget is not fully used in terms of deficit, and the reimbursement of these funds from EU funds in January, February next year is a good budgetary procedure, which unfortunately the finance ministers during my term of office did not want to use. And at the beginning of the year you will have 10 billion zlotys for which you will not have to issue debt papers. Congratulations, then. The idea is good and, as you can see, in the last 27 years it is one of the few budget changes that raises no doubt and practically all clubs support it. I'd also like to remind my colleagues from PiS that a year ago, you were talking about twice as much subsidies. Although they will be paid twice - it is not just your idea, because last year we also paid in an advance system - but they will not be bigger. They are still at the current level. I think you're gonna stop with the myth that you're gonna increase these subsidies because you're not gonna raise them. I would also like to emphasise very strongly the issues relating to the income situation. You also promised that there would be guaranteed minimum prices. It's not guaranteed, but it's minimal. [[Applause]] Among other things, the acceleration of advances is actually linked to a price depression that occurs on virtually all agricultural markets. We're looking for different ways to improve profitability in agriculture. For many years, we have been looking for export opportunities in various markets in the world. I would like to remind you that exports grew very dynamically, because in 2007 it was less than €7.8 billion, and in 2015 it was about €25 billion in exports. It concerns the fact that export dynamics for the first half of this year as regards agri-food products are unfortunately not positive, so there is a brake. Perhaps the second half of the year will be better for agriculture. I want to give you some good advice if you take it. For many years, Chinese markets will be available and beneficial to us, provided that Polish exporters sell in an organised and not competitive manner on these markets. It is therefore worth raising the issue of the necessary cooperation with regard to exports during the discussions on promotional centres and producer organisations. I also think that, in the light of the new reports on relations between Russia and Ukraine, one more element needs to be pointed out. The Ukrainians do not prolong economic sanctions against Russia, even though the conflict does not expire, but on the contrary, it is increasing. It is clear that, in addition to political matters, economic matters are extremely important for Ukraine. Perhaps in the light of this information, the bilateral relations between Russia and Ukraine, the Polish government would perhaps consider reopening talks on the abolition of the Russian embargo on European food. This would certainly help Polish farmers. This would certainly help Polish exports. I notice the PiS government taking the right direction in talks with Belarus. There's some warming going on. I think Belarus can be a contact country with the Community of Independent States, the CIS, and the Eurasian Union. It would be good for the Polish government, at least at the level of deputy ministers, to undertake such economic talks to abolish the embargo and resume exports of Polish agri-food products. I would like to stress that the Polish People's Party is in favour of directing this project to second reading and for quickly adopting the proposed proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u35	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today's government proposal to amend the 2016 budget law is intended to enable the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development to pay 70% in the current year. advance payments for direct payments to agricultural producers for 2016. The advance payment of such amounts allows the European Commission's Implementing Regulation 2016/1617 of 8 September 2016 whereby Member States are able to increase to 70% the amount of advances allowed for direct payments. They are intended to mitigate the negative effects of the crisis on agricultural markets caused by the fall in agricultural product prices as a side effect of the Russian embargo. The draft amendment contains changes resulting solely from the need to secure payments for Polish producers and although it requires an increase in the deficit of European funds, it does not affect the deficit of the public finance sector. We understand that all planned budget expenditure should be covered in income - those are the rights of economics - but the situation is extraordinary. The negative criticisms of the draft are, of course, partly justified, but only when we consider the proposal for an amendment from the position of cold economists. However, we are representatives of Polish farmers and Sadists, and it is for purely human reasons that we must be solidarity with them. The increase in public debt will only serve to safeguard agricultural producers who, for reasons which they did not have, would have been left in a very difficult situation without State intervention. It cannot be that the Polish state, as it has been for many years before, will again fail the exam and leave its citizens without help. I don't think there's anything to discuss at all. A revision of the bill is necessary. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the presented project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u37	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of your fellow Members like to subscribe to the questions? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Arndt, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I would like to ask if this is the last amendment to the 2016 budget this year. Recently, you specialize in budget changes at the end of the year, and that is not always necessary. But I'm going back to the bill. Reducing the revenue of the budget of European funds under the common agricultural policy will increase public debt. For years, we've been criticized for generating public debt, but you're doing the same thing. How much - we will see during the discussion on the 2017 budget. The Prime Minister said that the increase in public debt would be no more than PLN 9 billion. Do you have any estimates, any forecasts, if this debt actually increases in 2016? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u39	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! My question concerns next year's budget, next year's budgetary perspective. I'd like to ask, would it be such a good rule that this money, this 70% Will farmers get advance payments before then? Will farmers also be able to count on this next year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u41	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u42	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! I have two main questions. I asked for direct payments to farmers for 2016. The State applied this advance mechanism to some farmers. Today you say that 70% will be paid. subsidies. I would like to see farmers in this structure who have both a small area of the farm and a large area of the farm, because it is not possible to differentiate this way - 90% payments to small farmers at the expense of farmers who have large farms are intended to preserve this element of balance in the structure. But I wanted to ask you one more thing about the 2016 budget. I'm very concerned. The Minister spoke of measures to eliminate the effects of American swine fever. In this respect, in the budget for the current year we have allocated an additional amount of PLN 80 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the flood reserve. 400 million zlotys remain in this reserve. Local authorities' requests for payment of funds were prepared, inter alia, to improve roads for flood damage.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u43	Get close to the punch line.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u44	I wanted to ask how these requests from local governments that were received by the Ministry of Finance would be implemented and were stopped at the last minute. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u45	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I would like to thank the government for shifting these funds and allowing the payment of a significant, dominant part of the payments due in the form of advances this year. The economic situation of farmers is difficult. The collapse in agricultural markets across Europe is noticeable and also translates into the income situation of Polish farmers, so this money paid faster than normal each year is very much needed for farmers. It is also important what one of the messengers asked, that 70% advances apply to all farms in Poland, not selectively treated smaller or larger areas. My question concerns the possibilities and programmes that have been undertaken by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. I value very highly what agency management and all the agency staff have been doing this year to pay the money due to farmers, despite the lack of a system, a functioning IT system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please make this reply in writing: How is the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture prepared to make payments, both in advance and complete in 2017? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u47	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is a simple transfer of funds, but very important and positive, so congratulations, Prime Minister, this will be useful for farmers. Nevertheless, I do not think that this will increase farmers' incomes in any way, because these are known figures. On the other hand, I would focus, Prime Minister, on more effort and on bringing about a change in the situation with regard to the euro rate. I do not know if you know that the euro is taken into account on 30 September as a magical day, and this is where you need to focus your strength. Difference between 2004, i.e. 4,38, the worst, 2008 - 3,40, the best, 2011 - 4,41 is 1 PLN. This does not result in an increase in farmers' income. And the other thing. These subsidies should not be linked to the element of the area in question, they should be linked [[♪ The bell ♪]] with an element of production. And one last thing. Prime Minister, this is very important. I don't know if you know, sir, but there's no money on PZU for field insurance right now. It's a blazer. The Ministry of Finance. Three days ago, farmers' insurance payments were in operation. Today farmers cannot be insured against weather phenomena, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u49	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u50	These are actions that should focus your attention as a prime minister responsible for finance, improving the situation in the countryside. About the first ones...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u51	Finish it, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u52	Congratulations. But the other ones, the next ones, are more important. Prime Minister, this is why I strongly appeal: start action to make money for subsidies...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u53	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u54	...they found each other when it comes to insurance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u55	Thank you very much. But please watch your time. Please, Mr Richard Bartosik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The decision to pay advances is expected by farmers. This faster payout will indeed be a great support in the current difficult economic situation in the countryside. Here we are dealing with a different quality compared to our predecessors. I wanted to thank the Prime Minister and the Government for these decisions for the rapid use that the European Commission has given us. I would also like to ask you a question, because from this speaker there is still false information about payments for the current year. This is also a question for representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture. Is it true that the previous government has neglected to pay direct payments for this year in due course? Because we still hear from this speaker that it is [[♪ The bell ♪]] The restructuring agency has now failed, and it appears from my knowledge that Minister Krzysztof Jurgel has led to these direct payments being paid in due time. I ask that this issue be clarified in a clear way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u57	Thank you very much, sir. I invite you, Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! My question is whether it is true that it is only because the EU regulation has changed that you can - and I am facing - that you can actually carry it out quickly and efficiently. On 8 September, let us remind you that the EU regulation has entered into force, which will allow early advances to be paid, and today we have half of October, and in principle at this meeting we will ensure that payments can be made. This is a quick action. But also, it must be pointed out whether it is true that this is only possible because of the fact that the EU regulation Did he let us do that? And whether it is also true, not as you said. In fact, last year... This year, these payments, which were delayed, were delayed due to the chaos related to the ARiMR. But it was a big slip. And, by the way, Minister Jurgiel had to ask for an extension of his time to pay the benefits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it true that only through this regulation can we make this correction and amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u59	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Given the difficult situation of farmers and therefore supporting the bill, please explain whether a system solution is envisaged in this regard so that there is no need for similar, subsequent, possible amendments to the budget laws in the coming years. After all, there are various types of natural disasters or economic problems, especially in our region of the world, and it would be worthwhile to have such a systemic legal solution, which can be used in such cases, without reaching the point of amending the budget law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u61	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Catherine Chechara, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Work is currently underway in the Sejm on a draft law amending the budget law for 2016. This law is intended to give the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development the opportunity to pay 70% in the current year advances for direct payments to agricultural producers for 2016 under the common agricultural policy. The payment of advances is intended to mitigate the negative effects of the crisis on agricultural markets caused by the fall in agricultural product prices as a side effect of the Russian embargo. Prime Minister, my question is, could you set out the timetable for the payment of these advances and when it is initially anticipated that these payments will be terminated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u63	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u64	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed draft budget law, which allows farmers to pay more quickly advances on direct payments, is very good for farmers and the expected change. For this reason, I have a question for the Minister: are there any preparations for the changes in the 2016 budget concerning faster and increased advances concerning direct payments to the county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture? Can they count on additional support from the Ministry of Agriculture? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u65	Thank you very much, Member. The last question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! As a Member from Koszalin, I am pleased that farmers will receive early payments. It will allow them to go out into the field in the spring, buy fuel, seeds, produce seedlings. Mr Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland, promised to compensate for the EU subsidies for Poland. My question is: When will Polish farmers receive the same subsidies as other farmers in the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u67	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Hanna Majszczyk, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, answers the questions first. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! With regard to some of your fellow Members' questions, as Mr Bogucki from the Ministry of Agriculture will answer further questions, I would like to address questions which generally concern the system principles and changes in the budget for 2016. The first question is if the debt actually increases due to the amendment proposed by the High House in its submission, which is currently under discussion. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the maximum amount of debt may increase by the amount by which we are increasing the deficit of the European budget, i.e. about PLN 9 billion, but, as we point out in the explanatory memorandum, the debt does not have to increase by that amount. This will, of course, depend on the outcome with which and what action we will take by the end of the year in relation to the various financial operations that will determine how the debt is really going to be and how this debt will be at the end of this year. Consequently, the debt does not have to increase at all. He is presented in this 2016 novel, in this government proposal that we are currently talking about, because it is a revision of the state budget plan for 2016, which is essentially what we are talking about. This plan was designed in such a way that it is counted taking into account the deficit of the state budget in its entirety. We already know today that this government budget deficit will not be implemented in its entirety, but the construction and principles of building the state budget and shaping all the volumes that are presented in the novel also required a revision of the loan needs plan and the maximum amount of debt that this may entail. So in effect, the end of the year will actually show us how we're going to close it, but with great probability - not by that amount. [[Minister, brave. How much, exactly how much?]] This will depend on what financial operations we will be able to carry out this year and with what result. It is not possible to say how much concrete today, because we have more than 2 months until the end of this year and different emissions and financial operations are planned. With regard to the question of who will these direct payments be addressed to, or only to large farmers whose holdings have large areas or to small ones, to all those who are entitled to receive these direct payments, both large and small. As regards Mrs Skowronska's question concerning these 400 million from reserve IV, I would like to point out that, of course, this is one of almost two or three reserves, which may be in accordance with the Public Finance Act launched by the end of the year, and that money will still be mobilised. At the same time, it is not as the Minister indicated that this amount was retained at the Ministry of Finance. Absolutely not. The request for the reserve is addressed through the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and this is triggered in accordance with these proposals; it is both about the requests of the voivods - because there must also be requests from the voivods who then provide these grants - and to confirm such allocation of funds contained in this reserve by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and Administration. With regard to the possibility of introducing advance payment arrangements for direct payments - whether this could be a systemic solution - we cannot, as a general rule, introduce such a solution at the level of national law. EU rules are in force here, and it is worth noting that, in accordance with the regulations in force, they were also in force before the September regulation was published, allowing the payment of these advances for direct payments in the current year of 70%. - provisions were in force which allowed those advances to be paid at 50%. Also, these plans, which were included in the 2016 budget, did not provide for a deficit here, because we did not assume that advance payments of more than those which under European law could be paid, i.e. 50% in the case of the common agricultural policy, the deficit was not assumed at all. On the other hand, the Commission's transfer of these final payments - with great probability they will not come into play this year - has committed us to make the revenue more real and thus has to increase the deficit in terms of the budget of European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. Before I give the floor to Minister Jack Bogucki to answer further questions, as Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska is corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u70	Dear Marshal! The Minister spoke of using resources from reserve IV: the removal of flood-related effects, but in committee, when we spent 80 million extra funds on American swine fever... [[Voices from the room: African.]] ... We said the Minister said that the funds were unused. So at the same time, the voivods applied... [[African.]] African, well, thank you very much for the correction. I'm from Mielec, where the black hawks come from, which is why it's probably American. But in this case the Minister said that there were unused funds of PLN 400 million. At the same time, the voivodships collected proposals from local governments as part of the allocation of funds to deal with road flood effects. I ask: Are these conclusions [[♪ The bell ♪]] have a chance to implement in 2016? Because there is still a chance that these funds will be used. And that's the most important thing I've ever asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u71	Thank you very much. I understand the Minister still wants to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Member, of course, they can be used. Voivodeships may submit applications only until 30 September of the financial year. So, as far as all the proposals are concerned, at all times, when we considered the possibility of relocating some of the resources from reserve IV using them for other purposes than those originally intended, i.e. the elimination of natural disasters or the prevention of natural disasters, we had already had information on the extent to which the voivodeships had submitted such proposals, because they could submit these proposals, again, until 30 September. Applications will be dealt with, there are different deadlines. The Home Secretary will be sending... [[When will the conclusions be...?]] The funds shall be mobilised when payment should be made, not earlier. Applications shall be submitted by the voivods by 30 September. With full knowledge of the needs of the voivodships and their applications, it could be concluded, in agreement with the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, that the amount of PLN 80 million could be allocated for other purposes as it was not developed in relation to these applications. [[I'm just asking for a list like this for the committee meeting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. Now I'm asking for a further part of the answer to the questions. Please, Minister Jacek Bogucki, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! To answer questions that relate to the scope of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, I wanted to inform you, because a few questions about this were that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture is prepared to pay subsidies to all farmers. Moreover, not only is it prepared, but on 17 October, on the first day on which it was possible to start this action by the Ministry and the agency from funds already in the state budget, it started to pay funds to farmers who are in the most difficult situation, i.e. those who have faced the most difficult phenomena, such as. ASF disease. Payment is possible until 30 November. The timetable is for transfers of up to 80,000 per day to be paid. transfers, so that's 80,000. farmers could be served each working day. Here the problem is not so much about the amount as the capacity of the IT system, but this quantity allows all farmers to receive payments during the period during which payments can be made, which is until 30 November. The situation is completely different than it was last year. I would like to remind you that in 2015, the previous government paid less than PLN 1300 million for advances, even though the law in question also allowed these advances to be paid up to 50%. for all farmers. Only the smallest farms were paid out, and only farmers who had several hectares of land were paid out. Other farms, those which are the basis of Polish agriculture, i.e. typical family farms, did not receive these advances. The Law and Justice Government doubled this amount at the end of November when it could already make such decisions. However, the payment of subsidies last year was not prepared, was not prepared by the previous government, and I would ask you not to repeat these lies, because in the documents in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture there are letters from August to November, in which the system contractor informed that the first payments would only be able to start in April 2016. It was thanks to the activities of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the actions of Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel that the payment of these subsidies was able to speed up and pay as many farmers as possible in the earlier period than in April this year. If this share of payments had started in April, farmers would not actually have received aid on time, and this was the way to pay subsidies to all farmers, and these payments were made in due time, due to EU rules, but not the way this should have happened last year, difficult for agriculture. I'm sure that's not gonna happen this year. The payout schedule will be based on the preparation of applications by individual branches and individual county offices of the agencies, but above all it is limited by what I have already said, i.e. by an amount of 80,000. daily transfers made from the system. As regards whether only the European Commission regulation helped to mobilise these subsidies, I would like to provide two information. Firstly, last year also - I will repeat again - was the possibility of paying 50% , and the previous government of such changes in the budget has not prepared He didn't plan on it. Only 1.3 billion zlotys were planned, i.e. about 10% the amount allocated to the aid. Secondly, if not repeated since November Ub. Mr Jurgiel's requests at every meeting of the European Union's Agriculture Council to increase the payment of subsidies to ensure that farmers in this difficult situation are given advance funds... This proposal would not have been granted if there had not been such a proposal and if there had been no lobbying, bilateral talks, talks in the Weimar Triangle or the Visegrad Group to support the Polish proposal in this regard. As to whether advance payments will also be possible next year, it is certainly up to the European Commission's decision to do so again, but of course Poland, if the situation requires it, will once again submit such a proposal and ask for this system to continue, because we realise that every real farmer needs money in the autumn-winter period to prepare for the next agricultural season in order to buy production resources at better prices in advance and be prepared for spring, which makes it necessary not only to bear expenditure but also, above all, technical inputs for production. As regards the issue of compensation, I would like to say that this problem is constantly raised by the Polish side both during the mid-term review of the CAP and during discussions on the future of the common agricultural policy. The fact that these subsidies are not equal is a failure of the previous government, and it must be borne in mind that this financial perspective continues until 2020. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the budget law for 2016, contained in print No.916, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I propose on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the committee to submit a report on the draft within a time limit allowing for consideration at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 2 and 3 of the agenda: 2. First reading of the government draft budget law for 2017 (print No 881). 3. First reading of the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2017 (print No. 917). I will ask your Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for Development and Finance to present the justification for the draft budget law for 2017. As the Deputy Prime Minister has disappeared, I'm announcing a five-minute break. [[Applause]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min 53 hours 10 min 54]] We're reconvening. We're looking at items 2 and 3 of the agenda. I ask the Prime Minister to speak. [[Short five minutes.]] We're not wasting time. The Prime Minister found himself sooner.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I have the honour to present the first author's budget of the Government of Law and Justice for 2017. It's a fat book. I've got it with me. [[So do we.]] Certainly from this thick book reading in Poland will not increase, but I believe that the welfare of Poles will increase. This is the most important thing for us, the most important thing is that we consider first of all that it is so designed that on the one hand it is simply to maintain financial security, and on the other hand it was primarily used for socio-economic development in Poland. To begin with, may I present a few basic assumptions, which we follow, of the basic criteria for the construction of this budget for 2017. The first thing is to maintain a stabilising expenditure rule in such a way as to strengthen the confidence of financial markets, capital markets and external observers that the budget is secure. Secondly, we have a 3% budgetary anchor, which is also the European Union's convergence criterion according to ESA 2010, European statistics. We do not want to cross it, although we do not think it is an inviolable dogma, but it is a certain anchor for us, which we hold on to, because we think it is worth doing so. The third constitutional element of this budget is the provision of all social benefits, benefits in socio-economic policy, which correspond to the strategy of our government, i.e. this inclusive economic growth, such an increase that will serve the whole society and not just selected groups. It's kind of like an axiom number one for us. From the basic parameters of the assumptions for the next year - economic growth is assumed at 3.6%, an increase in the price index of services and goods - at 1.3%, while in the case of pensioners the basket for those most in need is taken into account at 1.6%, which is important from the point of view of various types of conversions which are later visible in the budget. The average annual salary in the national economy - at the level of PLN 4263 - is also an indicator that we accept for many calculations. From the basic budgetary parameters that I would like to present to the High House at the beginning, this is the budget of the highest income, at the level of PLN 326 billion, and the budget deficit of PLN 59.4 billion, i.e. expenditure of PLN 384.8 billion, this is the deficit. Here's a little bit of information. You mentioned in the discussion, even before the parliamentary debate, that our budget deficit is high, even at the highest level. This is a complete misunderstanding, because this deficit is even lower than what happened last year and in previous years, which I am about to show. It is worth noting at this point that in 2009 the deficit was at the level of PLN 99 billion, in 2010 - PLN 108 billion and in percentage to GDP it was a deficit at the level of PLN 7.5%. and 7.9% to GDP. So, ladies and gentlemen, this deficit we have today is one of the lower deficits in the last 10 years. In addition, in order to compare really comparable values, I would like to say that we did not use the instrument that our predecessors, PO-PSL, have used for many years, namely the loan to the FUS, the Social Insurance Fund, instead of subsidies to the FUS. The loan to the FUS causes that it is not visible in the deficit of the state budget, it is, of course, reflected in the deficit according to ESA 2010, i.e. European statistics, but it is not visible and artificially understated by the level of government deficit according to the state budget. We do not use this procedure, moreover, at the last meeting of the government, we decided to allocate 39 billion from previous loans, i.e. all the loans that accumulated over the years of the PO-PSL activities to the budget, we canceled them, and today we did not apply it in the 2017 budget. If you compare the years 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, the budget deficit, ladies and gentlemen, according to the same parameters is lower by 0.1% in 2017 for 2016 and by 0,2% by 2015, which shows how responsible this budget has been. [[Applause]] In addition, in this budget, of course, we want to secure some fundamental elements of our social and socio-economic agenda for us. Indeed, in 2017 we spend nearly PLN 40 billion for family purposes. This aid is unprecedented for all Polish families, including of course 23.6 billion for 500+ aid, but also, together with the transfer of this aid to Polish families, we estimate 1.8 billion higher payments from family benefits and social benefits, in addition to the payment of 500+, [[Applause]] which is why, in the 2017 budget alone, payments for this year increase by 6 billion or 6.5 billion compared to 2016, because it is not yet fully known how much expenditure will be spent on this year's budget, plus expenditure on other family and social benefits that we maintain. Including contributions to family policy so far, ladies and gentlemen, this is the unprecedented sum of PLN 40 billion. In addition, there is an increase in the following items of the entire budget structure: 1,4 billions more defence spending, on defence policy, because we believe that this is very important in today's troubled world. [[Applause]] This was mentioned in the earlier debate on insurance for farmers. I would like to say to you that, due to the work of Minister Jurgiel and the discussions in the Council of Ministers, we have decided to increase only the delta next year, the growth itself, the insurance for farmers in connection with the cultivation of plants and the breeding of animals by PLN 700 million. So 700 million PLN in the budget is on the insurance of farmers against this year, and already this year there has been a clear increase in these insurances for farmers. So first of all, we secure this part, a very important part of our national economy, and most of all people. We construct the whole of our budget so that to a large extent it is not for indicators, just like a little elite of the Third Republic, right, looking at the budget, whether the indicators are growing. We want this to be a budget for people, for entrepreneurs, for citizens, for customers, for patients, in this case, as I said just now, for farmers as well. And this is driven by individual increases within different divisions of the national economy, also in expenditure. One by one, I would like to say to the High House about some of the main increases. In the area of roads and communication, i.e. in the department under the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, because we are moving away from what we called the polarisation and diffusion growth for more sustainable, more responsible, more solidarity, we are raising the expenditure on roads and railways next year by 2150 million. In addition to maintaining this budget, a special budget of PLN 800 million for district and municipal roads we add an extra 2150 million, which is enough to see in amounts subject to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. This amount of 2150 million is generally divided as follows: 1230 million for the maintenance of roads and for the construction of district and communal roads, 670 million for the development and repair of railway roads and the remaining amount for the maintenance and repair of municipal roads and railways outside the main transport arteries. As part of our work on the budget, we also look at the possibilities of implementation in such a way that road construction and road renovation are also carried out in those counties and municipalities which have so far been largely neglected. That's the kind of goal we have. Another very big expenditure next year is record spending on science. We know how important research and development are. We also know how important innovation is, and the R &amp; D spending in this area is increasing accordingly. In total, subsidies, grants and grants for science are PLN 8600 million, i.e. they are at a record level because we really want to turn the economy into more innovative ones. Another very large, record-breaking budget - if we still consider that the special amount was dedicated in 2016. Wrocław as the European Capital of Culture, it is even higher - there is a budget for culture and national heritage. In this budget, which is also growing, if we also take into account that we do not subtract funds allocated to the Wrocław project - the European Capital of Culture in the amount of PLN 160 million, this increase is very significant, which will allow us to secure funding for several such important national heritage projects, such as the Ulm family museum, the museum. Marshal Józef Piłsudski in Sulejówek, the Museum of Kresów in Białystok and many other units to strengthen patriotic attitudes, so much needed to us in Poland, which is absolutely crucial for us. [[Applause]] Another area is the area of modernization of security services, police. Here Minister Błaszczak has a very extensive programme of modernisation of all services designed to maintain public order and internal security. It is a programme which spends more than PLN 600 million on wages alone, and in addition more than PLN 400 million on modernisation in various departments in the field of internal security and public security, which means that we want to improve the quality of these services significantly. Moreover, the efficiency of these services was confirmed during World Youth Days. Already today, they are to be recognized for their actions. We want to invest these services even more in relation to the previous period. Also in the area of the Minister of Development there is a sum of PLN 120 million per article. 20b Regional Development Act, i.e. support for significant development investments from central institutions, and 320 million PLN per article. 20a of the same law, i.e. the increase in expenditure on regional policy co-financed with local government units. We also maintain the actual increase in education subsidies in relation to the number of teachers and the number of pupils by PLN 1600 million. If this is calculated in proportion to the amount of teachers employed, which translates into the number of children, then due to the negative demographic trends for Poland, comparing apples with apples, it can be said that this increase will be at the level of PLN 1600 million. Ladies and gentlemen, a very important thing that comes to mind at this particular moment: How do we want to finance this? Well, of course, we want to finance this by sealing, above all, taxes, making it possible for you to regain control of taxes. In the previous debate, the Member also asked for debt, so in this part of my presentation of the budget I will also refer to debt. Everything starts with debt, of course, because for this debt Then you have to pay. It should be stressed that it was in the times of previous governments that in 8 years of government of PO-PSL debt increased by more than 100% in fact - from 511 to 880 billion. It's not 100% yet. But I'll tell you why. Exactly, comparing the same things with the same things, you consummated the state of 160 billion from the OFE. [[Applause]] That's why you've reduced your debt to 880 billion. In simplest math, 160 billion that you've included in the budget. [[The hardest thing to do is take the first step.]] You cut the bonds. Debt rose from 511 billion to 1040 billion, i.e. by 105% , comparing identical values with identical values. [[That's not true.]] [[That's a good one.]] It's an amazing debt increase in the past 27 years. In fact, it can be said that for those of you who are looking at how We manage debt, these debt increases will indeed correspond to every budget deficit. It's like 1040 billion in eight years of rule of law and justice, and we're gonna rule at least 18 or 28 years, I don't know, [[Applause]] The debt has grown to 2,200 billion, more or less. If we divided 1100 billion, 1150 billion, the deficit would amount to approx. One hundred and thirty-seven Of course, every deficit translates into an increase in debt, but compared to what the PO-PSL government has done, it is de facto twice as low as the average annual deficit, the one that would have been if we had used the same mechanisms and methods of debt management as the state. It is not enough, looking at this deficit, to emphasize that compared to previous years it is one of the lowest deficits, and when we look at the public debt, we will see that there is another parameter that we need to be aware of. Our public debt vis-à-vis GDP at the end of next year will be 52.3%, and at the end of this year we are planning 51.4%. Unfortunately, the 52% , here we must admit, such was the economic model within the Third Republic, it is more dangerous than e.g. 252% of Japan. Why? Because over 60% of this debt is in the hands of foreign investors, and 252% Japanese debt is in the hands of the Japanese. It's just a pro memorial. [[Applause]] [[It should have been amended in 2016.]] We will try to manage in such a way that Polish capital will grow, Polish property will grow. This is axiom number one for us when it comes to economic development. This is what we want to focus on. So here's the question: Where, where do we see the possibility of sealing the system, how do we see the possibilities of revenue growth? Shortly now on this income. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2007, in the last year of the rule of law and justice, the total revenue in the state budget amounted to 236 billion. In 2000, now there are very important comparisons, revenues amounted to 136 billion, i.e. over 7 years revenues increased by 100 billion, mathematically - 75%. After the next 7 years, i.e. in 2014, in the times of the government of PO and PSL revenue increased by 47 billion, from 236 billion... [[You don't honestly present the data.]] ...and in 2015, i.e. after 8 years, about 53 billion, or 20%. Ladies and gentlemen, the first seven-year-old I'm talking about was a skinny summer, too. We remember the years 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003. These were years of very low economic growth, and yet revenue to the budget grew by 100 billion, by 75%. In the next 7 years, of course, the years 2008 and 2010 were also thin years, we admit, revenue grew by 20%. What's the comparison here? [[Crisis, Minister.]] There was a crisis before, there was a crisis before. Benjamin Franklin said that there are only two things that are certain: death and taxes. Unfortunately, in the times of the government of PO and PSL only death was certain, taxes were not so sure. [[Applause]] [[But not for everyone.]] If someone was very smart, he could have avoided taxes. Unfortunately, taxes were not collected, as can be seen from numbers. Numbers can't be fooled, facts can't be fooled. [[Tell that to the Poles.]] In fact, these numbers cannot be fooled, there is a huge gap. And now I'm going to talk about this gap, because it's really built on the whole structure of our budget, from the point of view of reducing this gap. Attention, by the European Commission, the body that is, let us assume, from the point of view of certain calculations, is not guided by some political emotions, this VAT gap is set at a level of 40 and 60 billion at the time of the PO-PSL government. In CIT this gap has been set at a level with larger forks - 10 to 40 billion also. And you can see that because CIT in 2008 was 33 billion. After 8 years of government, PO-PSL CIT was 27 billion. That's a 15% drop in corporate profit tax. And at that time, the profits of companies are growing by 70%. [[This is unbelievable.]] Yes, we want to seal it. We want to seal it actually. So from this perspective, next year we assume an increase in CIT tax - and this is the first parameter, very important - up to 29,8 billion, in the collection of taxes from companies. The second very important tax, actually the most important in our budget, is VAT. We're assuming an increase of close to 11%, 10.98%. Exactly, to the level of 143.1 billion. So, a very ambitious plan, you'll admit. Indeed, this is supposed to be an increase of nearly 12, 13 billion PLN. This sealing is very important in terms of the success of our entire budget. And that's an absolute priority for me, that's what I've taken up. It's extremely important for such growth to occur. The second to the height... The second tribute is excise duty. The excise duty is set to rise to 69 billion. And here also the increase by PLN 6 billion, which will be the highest increase in the last 6 years. In general, taxes on GDP are expected to reach 15.4% next year. and this will be the highest level for 5 years, while in 2007, in the last year of the rule of law and justice, this level reached 16.8. This is the gap because when we took power back, this level was 13.5%. This gap okay. 3.3%, 3.4% this is the missing PLN 50.70 billion, which actually does not exist. Another tax, very important, is the PIT tax. Here growth is assumed at roughly the level of nominal wage increases. The nominal wage level assumed in the increase is to be 5% in the budget and in this amount we assume an increase in PIT - for the central budget at the level of 51 billion, for the budget of municipalities, voivodships and powiats total to the level of 95 billion PLN, i.e. the highest level in our history. We're assuming a high tax collection rate. And now, of course, when we talk about taxes, from the point of view of many entrepreneurs, the question arises as to whether this will not mean some additional fiscal and tax repression. [[No, it won't.]] Of course, this download has to do a lot with sealing the tax system. But look, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, on the other hand. Look at this from an entrepreneur who is honest, who pays all taxes. In his case, the sealing of this tax entails a level playing field for the entire market. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] So this seal is not only meant to translate into a better budget, into a budget that is intended to serve Polish families, but also to translate into better conditions of competitiveness. I've been on the private market for 25 years, I've been in business, and I've seen companies fall, who haven't dealt with competition, because competition has cleverly exploited tax gaps or even behaved unfairly towards the state budget. [[Did you report it then?]] What's the main... [[But did you report...]] Of course, all of our... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Did you report it, Minister?]] [[But the state didn't work back then.]] ...architecture was in such a way that unfortunately...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u77	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki: Your Marshal, some Members would like the speaker to be next to the seats, I think. You're welcome... I'm asking everyone to stay calm in the O.R. Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki: Ladies and gentlemen! So now sealing in these basic amounts and some basic laws that have already been implemented today, or we want them to be implemented in the near future - what is called in the financial language: additional discretionary revenues, taken into account in the stabilizing expenditure rule. PLN 3.54 billion - amendment of the VAT Act. PLN 2.51 billion - a fuel package that has already been implemented. The first positive effects are actually being observed today. We believe that next year it will translate into this amount - 2,51 billions of higher revenues from this. Higher revenues from gambling tax - the tax related to the gambling act - by at least PLN 400 million, we have written down, and an increase of 23% compared to the previous year. This is the zone which, in particular, is described by everyone as a gray market zone. We also want to address this sphere of economic life in a clear way, in this case also entertainment, in order to make a fair contribution to the budget. Moreover, we have a commercial tax of 0.97 billion, 970 million - this is also an increase next year compared to this year. All our sealing activities - those which I have already demonstrated in existing laws or in those which are to enter into force - are the level of PLN 10.53 billion. These are the seals we already have. Of course, today the entire Ministry of Finance is doing a very good, very positive job, working on all possible mechanisms for additional sealing of the entire tax system, because we are looking for additional sources of income. In addition, we also try to reduce the increase in spending, the increase in administration. Let me just remind you that the level of employment has increased by 144,000 in eight years of our predecessors' governments. employment, which, of course, translated into increases in wage costs, into increases in costs across the whole public finance sector. The expenses I was talking about are for modernisation, for farmers' insurance, for families, but we try not to raise the costs for administration and for bureaucracy. [[Applause]] High Izbo! You can also say about another of our flagship programs, the Living+, that he is also part of this budget. We have allocated some amounts both directly in the state budget, as well as funds for the funding of development institutions, which are then to be translated through the appropriate financial engineering of these funds into So this program of ours has also been secured. High Izbo! Mr Sławomir Sierakowski, a person who did not particularly support our government, said not so long ago that if this government succeeds in the 500+ family programme, if the Living+ programme succeeds and there will be economic development, which will at the same time maintain the stability of the budget and the stability of public finances, it will be the delegation of the Third Republic and the compromise of the Third Republic. Literally... [[Applause]] That's literally what he used to say. And I can say that this is going to work, because in our budget we actually have and the Family of 500+, and the Living+, and we have secured funds to finance the other programs, all social programmes, including family-friendly, prodemographic programmes. [[Do you believe these are good grounds?]] A very important parameter of the budget is also public debt and the management of this debt. Next year's debt service costs are expected to decrease by 1400 million. So we want to manage the debt better so that we can pay less for what is going to be 954 billion at the end of this year and 1021 billion at the end of next year. So the total debt level planned in the state budget for this year and next year is, as I reported, 954 billion and 1021 billion. The planned operation of this 954 billion this year is 31.8 billion, next year - 30.4 billion, which is a decrease of 1400 million, which I said 30 seconds ago. This is very important, because these measures are also de facto savings and these measures, which are invaluable, we can also pass on to different needs, very important, social and economic. Ladies and gentlemen! We're planning that next year's investments will increase. The level of public expenditure investment is expected to reach 4.4% next year .4.4% in relation to GDP, because these are only public investment. And this is supposed to be the fourth level in Europe, this is the estimate of the European Union. So this level of public spending is the fourth place in Europe. Furthermore, I can say that the total expenditure of the whole public finance sector this year is 41.3 in relation to GDP and 42.5 in the next year. This is also worth noting when compared to the years of the previous coalition's governments, when it was 45,6 compared to GDP during the peak period in 2010. We, although we have a more social, solidarity government, are reconstructing the budget so that the total level of expenditure relative to GDP is lower. And he's shorter. Moreover, we are acting in a book-based way from a macro-economic point of view, because public investment in economic policy should become stronger when private investment is less active. This year - last year also, in the future it will be similar - we have an investment hole. I think that next year, the investment stimulus that we have planned - also in the budget - will be visible in the various sections - will translate, together with the European Union budget, into a better quality of economic growth. High Izbo! In presenting these main figures, I would like to stress once again that we will try to maintain as low as possible the cost of handling debt so that the budget deficit is in line to have this budgetary anchor and, of course, maintain a stabilising expenditure rule, because we know how important it is to interact with the financial markets, how important it is to have peace in the financial markets around us. And from this perspective, we definitely want to keep this peace. Besides, the situation is certainly restless around us - and the crisis with refugees, and the exit of Britain. That is why we focus on such an investment policy, including in the budget, and such a development policy, which will translate into an increase in tax revenue. Total - and this is probably one of the most important figures that should be included in my introduction to the budget presentation. Total tax revenue growth of 9,4% , the highest growth actually for 10 years - that I can say for sure, because it is worth noting that in the meantime the previous coalition has increased VAT by 1%. [[It's gotta be done...]] Raising the overall level of tax revenue by 9,4% And, notice, we have, of course, something like non-tax income. Due to the fact that there will be no LTE auction next year, and because the payment to the budget from the National Bank of Poland is assumed at PLN 620 million - and this year it was at the level of over PLN 8 billion - this is a deposit lower by almost PLN 8 billion... [[This is for the previous government.]] ...that's what we have to do in tax revenues to compensate for non-tax revenue in the whole state budget. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, at the end, a few additional elements that we finance within the budget, i.e. increase in spending on medicines for seniors in the amount of PLN 400 million - increase by PLN 400 million, as this year is PLN 130 million, next year it will be almost PLN 530 million: PLN 525, 526 million, which means that the expenditure on medicines for seniors will increase. It's about fulfilling our election promise. In addition, we have a budget of 0.7 billion zlotys - 700 million zlotys - higher subsidies to FUS. The whole subsidy for the FUS is planned at PLN 46.7 billion, because here we do not use the mechanism - so as not to use other words - the loan, it is just a whole deposit... [[Extra.]] ...a grant for the FUS and this deposit will be maintained at this level. PLN 15.2 billion of contributions to the CRUS, of course PLN 53 billion in grants, a total amount of subsidies and grants of PLN 210 billion. The most important part is 53 billion PLN of subsidies for local government units. How is it possible to say that it's all getting tense, that we're all uptight within the deficit slightly below 3% ? [[Someone's gonna pay for this.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the difference in the model of economic growth that we propose, in the model of growth, which on the one hand is to be for entrepreneurs - it is not the time for me to mention the issues that are to help them - but also for people. Not for indicators, not for statistics themselves, but for people. From this perspective, I am convinced that this sealing will lead to such a situation that we will have much more solidarity in economic growth, that we will have to shift these funds to the level of society and we will seal them, we will take the funds that are fleeing the state budget. These numbers I gave 20 minutes ago, I think they're very, very clear. To conclude, High Izbo, I can only stress that such an institution... Recently, I had the opportunity to have twenty-seven talks at the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. IMF - IMF - is a mecca of neoliberalism and there has been a change in economic paradigm. The recent reports have already been made clear that financial, fiscal and economic policies cannot be pursued properly without society. Society is not only our key target, but at the same time it is the most crucial part of the whole ecosystem, the whole economic bloodstream. This is how we understand the whole redistribution mechanism, which will indeed be at a record level of 32 billion PLN next year, including of course the lion part is 500+, but also a few other elements that I mentioned to the High House. We shift these accents now and, of course, it is essential for us to fake the thesis that it is impossible that it is impossible that taxes are escaping because they are leaking. For us it is task number one to stop this wave, reverse. 9.4% the increase in tax revenues, as I said, while economic growth of such a nature as to translate into an increase in Poles' capital, an increase in the ownership of Poles and a healthy economic development mechanism - this is what the 2017 budget will serve for, and I ask the High House to adopt it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u78	Thank you, Prime Minister. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Ms Hanna Majszczyk, to present the justification for the bill contained in print no. 917. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017, commonly known as the Around Budget Act, is a close complement to the solutions and priorities that were adopted in the 2017 budget plan, which the Prime Minister was just talking about. In order to implement the priorities and plans set out in the draft 2017 plan, it was necessary to make some changes to the law in force in order to properly relocate funds in line with the priorities adopted in the 2017 budget. In addition, in order to carry out the tasks imposed on different state institutions efficiently, it is also necessary to make certain changes to make the activities of these bodies more flexible or to use the resources they have at their disposal or the supervisory bodies of the institutions which have such resources. With regard to the proposals put forward in the around-the-budget bill, I think we should start with changes that are of a substantive nature and substance. These measures include maintaining at the level of the previous years the basis for write-downs to an occupational social benefit fund as a rule for the entire budgetary sphere, except for activities such as higher education. It's also about write-offs for teachers, or pension write-offs for uniformed services, where this fund is different. These base amounts are also maintained there at the level of 2016. Thus, depending on which professional group we are talking about, this will be either 2013 as for university staff, or 2012 as for teachers, and for other professional groups that are employed in budget units it will be the 2010 base. The next amendment, which is linked to the implementation of the budget law, refers to solutions in the biofuel promotion law, according to which 1.5% should be allocated to the promotion of biofuels. planned revenues from the previous year's excise duty on diesel fuels. In this respect, however, this is, of course, a bit of a technical effect. Although the Act contains amendments which I am referring to at the moment, which are of a substantive nature, the implementing regulation, which would allow for the financing of such tasks, has not yet been notified to the European Commission. So, anyway, it would be useless to make such copies for this purpose, because this type of task could not be carried out. The amendment proposed in this Act relating to the implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 consists in the suspension for this year, the non-application of provisions relating to the write-down to the biofuel fund for the promotion of fuel excise revenue. Another change that is proposed in the project is the one-year shift in the ceiling of subsidies for support centres for people with mental disorders. The Act amending the Social Assistance Act in the current year changed the level of funding for participants in support centres for people with mental disorders, adopting as a standard 200% income criterion for a single economy person. However, if we look at it, we will see that the law that was adopted by the High House in 2016 assumed that since 2017 this level of funding would be 230% The income criterion for a single economy person - the income criterion taken into account by the public - and in 2018 this was to be 250% of the income criterion for a single economy person. This Around Budget Act proposes a one-year increase in this level of funding for participants in support centres for people with mental disorders. But if we look at the justification of the project that introduced these regulations, we will see that, in fact, the level of funding for participants in support centres for people with mental disorders has already been achieved, the one that was planned in the draft law introducing these increased levels of support each year. If we look at the justification for the level of funding that the authors of this project assumed, it will actually turn out that what was expected to be achieved as a result of the increase of this threshold to 230% in 2017 was already achieved in 2016. It follows from the justification that this amount per person who is a participant in support centres of people with mental disorders in 2016 was to be PLN 1080, while already this year it is over PLN 1200. This amount was not to be reached until 2017. This change will therefore lead to a level of 200% being maintained in 2017 as well. aid for the financing of the participation of persons in support centres for persons with mental disorders, i.e. the level of 2016. But, as I said just now, this is the level set by project authors actually in 2017, and that is the level we already have. As in previous years, it is assumed that medical and nursing traineeships will be financed by the Labour Fund in 2017. Another change proposed in this project is the change that prolongs the vacathio legis for the introduction of new solutions to the creation of the Compensation Fund in the Hunting Law. In order to properly prepare all institutions in order to enable the Hunting Law to function in accordance with the objectives of this project, it is necessary to introduce specific organisational and preparatory arrangements also at the level of voivodships. The other changes that have been made, proposed, are still linked, as I mentioned at the outset, to solutions that are flexible in the operation of certain institutions. But maybe even before I get to it, I'll talk about the last change, which is between basically substantive changes and technical changes. This is the proposal of the High House in this draft budget to cancel loans to the Social Insurance Fund, those that would be due at the end of March 2017. This is over 39 billion PLN, 39.1 billion PLN. Of course, these loans were intended to complement the lack of resources to fulfil the State's obligations to implement the rights to pensions owed to citizens. However, given the perspective, the forward-looking approach with regard to the income of the Social Insurance Fund and the ability to repay this loan, which is not really likely in the nearest time horizon, is proposed here by the High House to cancel this loan. This will in no case affect the level of the deficit of the public finance sector or the level of the government budget deficit, since, of course, earlier these loans which were granted to the Social Insurance Fund were shown in the expenditure of that Social Insurance Fund, as these funds financed pensions and pensions. So that it does not translate - as I just said - into a deficit in the sector or a deficit in the budget. Other solutions are more technical in nature. One of these solutions is the introduction of powers for the Minister of the Family, which would allow the use of funds originally allocated to the voivodship law in order to make better use of these resources in the promotion of the Large Family Card programme. The expenditure limit, which is set out in the de facto law for the voivodships, can be used in some part by the family minister to allocate these funds to non-governmental organisations which would raise additional participants in the Large Family Charter programme. At the same time, it is proposed, as in the current year, in the Around Budget Act for 2016, allowing the Minister of the Environment to finance certain contributions to international organisations from the national environmental fund. An additional solution, which ensures flexibility in budget action and planning, is a solution that allows planning expenditure on the professional improvement of teachers at the level of the Minister of National Education and at the level of the voivodships of up to 5 000. the average salary of the trainee's teacher, not stiffly of 5 thousand. the remuneration of the trainee's teacher. The last two technical solutions. There is a solution that allows us to use for another year, contrary to what is announced in the Education Law Act, according to which a new educational information system should be used from the beginning of the year... It extends by the end of 2017 the possibility of using current solutions, a system that is currently in force, without its modification and required updates, which were imposed on individual beneficiaries of the scheme. It is also proposed to resolve in a transitional period when, after the liquidation of the Treasury Ministry, part of its current tasks will be distributed among other entities, so that there are no misunderstandings as to how the income to be realised by the individual supervisory entities of the companies that were to be paid, for example. dividends to the Treasury. This is a technical solution that is introduced only for 2017 so that there are no misunderstandings here that these revenues are paid into part 77, that is the part supervised by the Minister of Finance. The last amendment allows for a maximum of PLN 300 million to be transferred in 2017 from the part at the disposal of the Minister of National Defence, Part 29, to the programme of modernization of the Police and the services subordinate to the Minister of Home Affairs in order to purchase certain items of arms, means of transport or various devices of an IT nature or used for communication matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm established in a joint discussion on these items the division of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, between 113 and 5 minutes, i.e. the mid-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to speak with Mr Jacek Sasin, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Budget Act, which was submitted by the government to the Sejm, is much more than just a draft of state revenue and expenditure for 2017, is an extremely important element of the great development plan of Poland, a significant improvement of the standard of living of millions of Poles. In the last poll, which was conducted by the Social Opinion Research Centre, almost 60% Poles declared that they believed that the government of Law and Justice fulfilled its pre-election promises, and as much as 2/3 of Poles declared that they expected these promises to be fulfilled in full. And it is this budget that translates into the language of numbers and financial mechanisms the concrete declarations that Law and Justice has made to Poles, citizens of our country in the campaign before the last municipal elections. These promises of Law and Justice are consistently implemented and will also be implemented next year. This budget is an optimistic budget, but it is not optimism unsupported by reality. This is optimism, which has very strong foundations - it is based on reality. [[And how many foundations do you build?]] Don't disturb me, Member. It is an ambitious budget, but above all responsible and realistic. In order for this budget to be implemented in such a way, it is, of course, crucial to ensure that appropriate budget revenue is made available. The next year's budget assumes an increase in revenue to PLN 324 billion, which means a significant impact compared to the current year, and this is not something that can surprise or raise questions as to whether this increase is feasible, also because we have something to draw from. Prime Minister Morawiecki was just talking about this. The measures taken by the government, which I will discuss in a moment, are aimed at triggering those measures which are currently entering the grey zone and, in practice, in the pockets of fraudsters and those who avoid taxation. In order not to be literal: according to the NIK report, which saw the light of day at the beginning of this year and which examined the collectionability of VAT in the period from January 2014 to June 2015, with the effectiveness of the State with regard to the collection of this tax was indeed very bad. Only the disclosed VAT arrears amounted to over PLN 14 billion at the end of June 2015 and it is only the tip of the iceberg. The NIK estimated that during this period there was a further deterioration in the efficiency of tax authorities in the collection of taxes, a decrease in the ratio of tax revenues to GDP, and for 3 consecutive years it was below 15%. The size of the VAT gap remained significantly higher than the European Union average. According to the European Commission's reports, the gap increased from 18% to 27% between 2010 and 2013. VAT revenue that can be achieved. However, VAT is not the only place where the financial resources due to the budget escape. In addition, there is an escape from the payment of CIT, especially by large entities with foreign capital. The American Global Financial Integrity has produced a report showing that Poland is one of the world's most exploited foreign capital - not only for Europe, but also for the world - and is on the 17th place of this infamous list. Besides, we are a leader in the European Union if we can talk about being a leader in this case. The studies relate to the years 2003 to 2012. At that time, according to the estimates in the report that I am calling, 83 billion PLN were transferred from Poland, with most of the funds being exported from Poland in the years 2008 and 2010. Only then, about PLN 10 billion per year was taken out of Poland for this tax. Some experts calculate that the amount of benefits due, which for various reasons do not affect the state budget, can reach up to PLN 80 billion to PLN 100 billion per year. This is not only the challenge left to the Government of Law and Justice by the predecessors, it is also a sad summary of the governments of the Civic Platform and the PSL, which were under the sign, it can be said very clearly, the collapse of the system of downloading public danins with a deplorable effect on the budget, but above all for citizens. The government has taken numerous steps to change that. A fuel package was adopted, a law introducing a tax avoidance clause, and work was carried out in the Ministry of Finance to create an electronic invoice management system. These actions had a positive impact as early as mid-year, increasing the VAT impact by PLN 3.5 billion compared to the same period last year. Given the scale of the problem and the government's actions that result in a systematic improvement in tax collection, it can be considered that the estimated increase in tax revenue, including VAT revenue, by more than PLN 13 billion, to the level of PLN 143 billion is as real as possible. The reality of these assumptions is greater, because there are further work on changes in the law - I will mention only the so-called. The gambling law or the great task of reorganising customs and fiscal services, this is the draft of the creation of the National Tax Administration, which is to make these services work much more effectively than before and will be much more effective in getting to the unfair taxpayers who are the great payers of VAT and other taxes, and who, at a time that is, I hope, behind us, have come too easily from fulfilling their obligations towards the state budget. In addition, I will remind you that Law and Justice, as promised, led to the imposition of a tax on certain financial institutions. As a result, Poland has received such regulations as have been in possession of the most developed countries of the European Union for many years, [[Applause]] and the state budget has increased its revenue. [[How much?]] In 2017, revenue of almost PLN 4 billion was planned in the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! How different is this philosophy of increasing revenue to the budget from that of our predecessors? We all remember how Donald Tusk promised in 2007, and I quote: I swear to Poles that anyone who in my government offers a tax raise will be personally expelled by me. Unfortunately, as with many promises, these were just empty words. During the Citizen Platform and PSL governments, 21 legal acts were adopted that introduced public Danin increases, including as spectacular as the VAT increase of 1%... [[Which you repeat.]] ...and the increase in the pension contribution or finally the freezing of tax thresholds, which resulted in an increase in the tax burden for citizens. [[Which you continue to do.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the deficit of PLN 59.3 billion in the 2017 budget is still below 3%. GDP - 2.9%. I mentioned in the introduction that this budget is not a budget of creative accounting. We broke up with the bad practice used in previous years when the deficit was artificially lowered using the loan method. That was the case, for example. with a real grant for the Social Insurance Fund, which was described as a loan. The FUS loans, which only amounted to PLN 5 billion in the previous year, were not included in the deficit, so the previous government was falsifying the state budget. Law and Justice, which should be highlighted very clearly at this point, have consistently criticised such practices of artificial deterioration of the deficit. And today, when he is responsible for the state, he is responsible for the budget, he has no intention of applying such practices. [[Applause]] With the state budget deficit so assumed, which, as we have just heard, is a deficit that remains at a similar but slightly lower level than the deficit in the last years, the government will deliver on many promises that will serve Poland and Poles, because the deficit in 2017 is primarily investment in the future of Polish families, with funds for the 500+ family programme at the head. This budget has been because it was designed for Poles. I think we agree, ladies and gentlemen, that the financial economy of the state is to serve not the government, but the public, the welfare of the general public. I think we also agree with what the opposition representatives emphasize so strongly today that over a quarter of the democratic age, free Poland has managed to achieve and build a lot. Poland is today an economically stable country with good prospects for development. Therefore, Poles have the right to participate in this success, and the rulers have a duty not only to provide them with a decent existence, but to guarantee social security at a level comparable to security in other countries of the European Union. This is what programmes planned and implemented by the current government with the active support of the Sejm are used for. The 500+ family programme works very well, really helps Polish families. Its additional advantage is also that Poles have finally believed that you can afford to support your citizens, that the state has not forgotten all those who face everyday problems. And that's what the 500+ family program works for. For them, there is also another long-term program - the Living+. Finally, a programme on free medicines for seniors was adopted for them, in the real and not just a declarative fight against social exclusion. The expenditure foreseen in the budget for the next year for the implementation of the 500+ programme is over PLN 23 billion. That's more than 6 billion than in 2016. This program, ladies and gentlemen, works, and it's well spent money, as it will be well spent money next year. In the current year, 2.7 million families benefited from the programme. Next year it will be even more, because 3.5 million families. Let's all remember how our opponents were threatening the budget with a disaster, talking about spending money, as if the money that creates the budget, the citizens' money... as if the return of this money to the citizens' pockets was some cheap distribution. Perhaps some are not in the taste, and especially it is not in the taste of those who formulated such criticism - I mean the opposition politicians - that this program caused many Polish families to regain dignity, that many Polish families ceased to live from the first to the first for borrowed money, that many Polish families finally managed to create worthy trips for their children when they went to school on 1 September, and that many Polish families could finally leave for the first time in their lives for the desired vacation. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think we were all embarrassed by how some celebrities complained that they were bothered by those 500+ beneficiaries who first went to the Polish sea. When we analyze the budget for next year, we can say to these people: It is your surprise that will repeat itself every year now. Poles will finally have the means to enjoy the charm of the holiday each year and to rest on the beautiful Polish sea. We also remind you, as it was said, that these funds would be wasted, that these funds would be used for other purposes rather than for children. That wasn't true either. According to research presented by scientists at the School of Economics, more than 40% beneficiaries of the programme spend this money primarily on education of children. He spends the same amount on fees related to kindergarten or school. Is it a waste of money to enable Poles to meet such needs, as Leszek Balcerowicz described by his family? The next year is also, High Izbo, the start of a housing program aimed at Poles, especially those with lower incomes and families of many children. It's about the housing+ programme recently presented by the government. This programme has stable financial foundations also in the budget for next year. This is PLN 200 million for the launch of the programme, for the first work to be carried out to enable it to be implemented. But note that also in this budget more than PLN 700 million - PLN 730 million - were saved for the continuation of existing housing programmes. It is a total of over PLN 1 billion or about PLN 1 billion to meet the needs of Polish residents. Finally, we have promised, as Law and Justice, to withdraw from the socially unjust changes in the retirement age, and we are also going to implement this promise in the coming year. The financial plan of the Social Insurance Institution for the next year provided the necessary resources for this purpose of PLN 3 billion. The funds for revalorisation of pensions have also been secured. I hope that those who claim that this is the electoral promise which the Law and Justice are not going to implement, today, in the face of these facts, will dismiss these claims. But the government of Law and Justice also remembers the weakest, perhaps today the economically weakest Poles, I mean Polish seniors who are struggling to a great extent with everyday problems. It is precisely for Polish seniors that a free drug program was created for people over 75 years of age. And this programme also, as announced by the government, has its continuation and this continuation will be in a much larger dimension. Let me remind you that the 2016 budget provides funding from the budget of PLN 125 million for this purpose. Next year it will be over PLN 560 million, which is a very significant increase by more than PLN 400 million. Finally, the budget for the coming year also provides funding for budget increases, including increases for teachers and police officers and other uniformed services. High Izbo! In addition to social security, which is extremely important for each citizen, Law and Justice has set itself as one of the main objectives also to ensure security for Poles in a literal sense, both external and internal security, and therefore significant resources in the state budget have been earmarked for defence. These funds amount to PLN 37.4 billion, or almost PLN 1.4 billion more than in the current year. It's the means, among other things. for the modernisation of the Polish army, as well as for the creation and functioning of territorial defence. Here too, we want this budget to be a real budget, not just a declarative budget. Let us remind the previous government, the Civic Platform Government and PSL, also planned expenditure of almost 2% GDP. But what if these measures have not been used for this purpose over the last few years? We assume that these funds intended for modernization of the Polish army will be well spent and will bring not only reinforcement of our defence potential, but also a positive boost for the Polish economy. [[Helicopters - with Ukraine.]] That is why we are determined to spend these huge funds in Polish plants, which give Poles jobs and generate tax revenue to the Polish budget. And I'm sure we'll never agree that these measures should be treated as a kind of equivalent for profits lost by other countries... [[There will be no new factories.]] ...of those arms contracts that didn't happen. We're not gonna let our country treat like a colony. [[Applause]] We want Poland to be the subject, not the subject. Ladies and gentlemen! Security is also internal security. Therefore, when planning the budget for the next year, the government has allocated considerable resources to the modernisation of the police and other uniformed services: Border Guard, State Fire Department, Government Security Office. These funds only in the budget for the year are PLN 1.5 billion. We return to the programs that Law and Justice carried out at a time when they held power in 2006 and 2007 and which were later abandoned by our successors. We believe that security is the area of activity of the country in which it is simply not possible to save. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, one more thing needs to be said: we also want to invest much more in areas that have often been Somewhere on the margins of interest in the previous power. I mean a culture - a culture that was underfunded, a culture that was still short of money. The budget foreseen for culture next year is growing significantly, to the level of 2350 million in the area managed by the Ministry of Culture alone plus additional funds in the budgets of other ministries, a total of almost PLN 4 billion. This is a very significant increase, by more than 200 million PLN. This is probably the best response to opposition allegations that Law and Justice is trying to marginalize the Polish culture. Culture, ladies and gentlemen, is not only one theatre run by politics, but it is also a care for our national heritage, for the protection of monuments, for the promotion of young creators, to promote this culture that builds our common Polish identity. This is an area that we want to take seriously, not just as a political instrument. This budget is what this serious treatment is about. Ladies and gentlemen! By the way, it may be worth mentioning and that a good budget is a budget which provides for an adequate amount of resources for these actions, which are a priority of the State's action, but it is also a budget that assumes that these funds will be spent rationally, economically, that no cash from the public money that has been saved in this budget will be wasted. In this context the effects of the revised Public Procurement Law this year should be mentioned. The adopted change allows small and medium-sized companies to compete on an equal footing with large companies in proceedings. It also introduces points for innovation. It all translates into concrete savings. The more sensible public procurement will be, the better public money will be spent. This will translate into the same tasks with much less effort. The implementation of these projects will strengthen the innovation of the Polish economy, will strengthen the condition of these small and medium-sized enterprises. They will also have higher quality and thus greater durability. We strive for such a model of public procurement and are convinced that it is a model that will serve Poland and Poles well. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's say this: all these ambitious assumptions that I have just presented are successful. We manage to implement our program, which we presented to Poles, and which was assessed as unrealistic. This is achieved with the discipline of public finances, while maintaining the deficit level at the level that was achieved in previous years - without all these ambitious and, after all, costly social programmes. And today, I hope to hear in the speeches of the opposition politicians... What are they going to say today? Are you going to apologize to the Law and Justice and the Government of Law and Justice for these accusations that you have made, for those accusations in which we were accused of dishonesty, that we were accused of trying to ruin public finances? As it turns out, you can. As it turns out, if the government and the parliamentary majority set ambitious targets, they are able to achieve these goals - if only they have the will to do something good for their citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last eight years Poles have often heard that it is impossible, and even if it is possible, maybe not now, maybe in the near future. And when, ladies and gentlemen, if not now? The Polish economy after almost a year of rule of law and justice is extremely strong and stable. Unemployment is the lowest in a quarter of a century. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I am very pleased that the opposition Members are pleased with these successes of the government. We're happy about that, too. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I think that this is mostly the joy of Poles who continue to trust that Law and Justice is the political force that can best manage Poland today. I'm going back to the unemployment case. It's the lowest since 1991. At that time, in June 1991, unemployment was for the last time as low as it is now, at 8.4%. GDP growth in the budget is 3.6% , by 0,2% more than in the current year. Is it a lot, or is it ambitious? Yeah, it's a very ambitious challenge, but it's feasible. Let us compare this economic growth, which Poland today notes and will record next year, with that recorded in other European countries. This level of economic growth established in the 2017 budget puts us in third place in Europe, after the UK and Malta. And for comparison: France - 0.3%, Germany - 1.2%, Italy - minus 0.5%. These figures really tell a lot about the condition of the Polish economy today. High Izbo! We do not want to tell Poles that their expectations are excessive. Nor do we want Poles, like our predecessors, to reprimand, saying that they should limit their expectations. We do not want to deprive them of their hope of participating in the fruits of Polish success. When creating the state budget for the next year, we need to keep in mind the hopes and expectations of society. We want Poland to be Poland's dynamics, not stagnation, to be a country of development. This reflects the proposed budget. Sleep. President Lech Kaczyński emphasized many times that the purpose of power should be Poland safe, modern, self-dignity. We want to guarantee citizens such a country. We want no one to have to worry about the resources for education, health, safety or finally building their safe future. It is also worth recalling to those who so strongly and loudly refer to the Constitution in their actions, that it is in the Constitution that these issues are enshrined as fundamental values of citizens, and the duty of every authority - and we take this responsibility on our shoulders - that it is the provision of security for Poles in this area. As I mentioned at the outset, more than half of Poles expect the Law and Justice to fulfill their electoral promises. I assure you that we will deliver on these promises, and that raising funds for this will not cease to be a priority for the government and will not cease to be a priority for law and justice. The present budget is the best proof that we take these commitments seriously and intend to fully implement them. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I declare my support for this budget, which has been presented by the government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u82	Thank you, sir. And I will ask Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club, to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u83	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! During the election campaign you repeated like a mantra: Poland is a country in ruins. Today it seems to everyone that it was pure manipulation, because Poland developed under the rule of the Platform and PSL, [[Touchdown, applause]] GDP grew - accumulated growth amounted to more than 24% between 2008 and 2015 and increased investment - accumulated growth by more than 25%, almost 26%. We were the fastest growing economy in Europe, increasing employment and rising wages. So what does it mean: Poland in ruins, if this is not an assessment of the state of the economy? From day to day, it's actually getting clearer, it seems to be your vision, that's the goal you're going to achieve, [[Applause]] And this budget is a step in that direction, [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's not the first time... [[Voice from the room: It's gonna be versus.]] ...because you're devastateing Polish public finances. [[We'll do the same.]] You started with the spending rule mentioned here today. You've changed it so much that you can shape your expenses quite freely, even though you're still not enough to fulfill your promises. It is worth noting, however, that expenditure and deficit should be lower in good times. The next step in this vision of yours and the devastation of public finances is an amendment to the 2015 budget - an increase in the deficit without really any economic justification. Another budget for 2016 - a record deficit again, almost 55 billion. I year 2017 - plan of almost 60 billion deficit. The Prime Minister's statement could actually be summarised: more means less. That's one step further than the classic said, black isn't black, and white isn't white, no one can prove it. Regardless of the calculation methodology, this deficit is too large anyway, given the conditions under which the Polish economy is located today. I will remind you of what the Prime Minister said - today the Prime Minister and once a Member of the Committee on Public Finance - on the occasion of the 2015 budget: The simplest and most destructive is the development through debt. Here it is even worse for a good cause, because the Prime Minister himself said that the 500+ programme is being implemented on credit, well, from this deficit precisely, and the puffed up from debt the state is entering the trap of average growth. That's also what Mrs. Beata Szydło said. You're doing everything you can to get our country out of development opportunities. This is also Mrs. Szydło's statement that fits perfectly with what you're doing. The deficit calculated according to ESA 2010 methodology is to be 2,9%. It's worth remembering that over 3% is the entrance in the excessive deficit procedure. Do we have a real dimension of this deficit here? For example, you assume that local governments will not be indebted, little is that they will end 2017 with a surplus, that they will also launch a European-based investment perspective. Where are they gonna get their own money? What about the financial plans of other institutions in the sector, e.g. BFG, BGK or PFR, which is good for this sector? In our opinion, this budget is simply unrealistic. He is based on slides and stories from the land of mosses and ferns. [[This is mine.]] What does reality look like? Take, for example. GDP. Already after less than a year of your governments, an adjustment to the pace of economic growth was needed: in 2016 - from 3.8 to 3.4 in 2017 - from 3.9 to 3.6%. Incidentally, the market doesn't share your optimism. In our view, the growth rate will be much lower. What happened, why are you making this correction? Investment is responsible for this decline in growth, and in principle the collapse of public investment, and this was supposed to be the engine of growth, which you have already announced, while you have stopped investment processes in the public sector. The state, in your language, does not exist today in this area, not only theoretically. You have paralyzed European fund managers by exchanging experienced staff with Pisiewiczów. You achieved a similar paralysis effect by sending CBA to local governments. Public investment, let's remember, is pulling private investment. There is additional uncertainty here, especially about your tax and regulatory intentions. The announcements of higher taxes on business people only heat up the atmosphere, and this certainly does not encourage investment. Another risk element is the level of inflation that has been adopted, and here the market forecasts differ significantly from the level of 1.3 you have adopted. In addition, there are very serious risks related to the economic situation in the European Union. This deficit also worries us, and maybe even more so because not only are you not fulfilling the promises of tax reduction, but, little of that, you raise and introduce new taxes, and you swore some time ago, as I remember, that you wouldn't. You promised Poles to raise the amount free to 8,000. zł, which means that in the pockets of Polish families there was to be 22 billion zł. From this promise you withdrew, saying that the amount free would be included in a uniform tax, which maybe someday, in 2018, you will introduce. But he's supposed to be budget neutral, he's supposed to close at zero. You take these 22 billion virtual ones from Polish families, promised 22 billion. You don't value much this year, you don't value the cost of revenue or the amount of free money, you don't value tax thresholds, that is, you raise PIT normally in the world. The effective rate of taxation will increase. Less means more this time, and these are your promises. In the case of economic operators, it is much, much more in the perspective. [[That's what you've been doing for eight years.]] What are you doing with VAT? Shall I quote the Prime Minister? What have you said about every budget since 2011? You are simply raising this VAT because the basic rate, in accordance with the applicable law, is 22% from 1 January 2017. You raise against previous promises, because more means less in this case. [[Voice from the room: We need it.]] [[Shame on you, sir.]] Did you promise to abolish the fossil tax or were you just kidding? Did you put in a bank tax? There's no doubt about who's paying him tonight. Polish families feel it - higher fees, margins, lower interest rates on family deposits, for which these deposits are really important. You insist on retail tax, despite the lack of legal basis, you plan your income. Of course, Polish families will pay, because there is nothing to be deceived, it is a transferable tax, Polish consumers will pay. Finally: pecunia non olet, you reach for money from gambling, you liberalize access to gambling, you increase the range of services and you do not care that this is at the heart of many Polish families. Gambling is really devastating. What do you call what you do in the tax system? This is essentially a robbery on Polish families, a robbery in broad daylight. But that's not all, because you're screwing up tax revenues over the line, and here's an example of the energy minister's actions to force the increase in share capital in companies to get tax revenue at the expense of dividends. It is essentially tax optimisation, but optimization at the expense of minority shareholders. Ad hoc benefits for the budget, but is this how you want to encourage investment in the Polish economy? Is this how we want to create Polish capital? I wonder, by the way, if you are planning to extend this formula to other companies. Finally, tax revenue increases based on the sealing of the tax system. They, in our opinion, are unrealistic. Sealing the tax system is a long-term process. Today's growth is largely the result of the actions taken by the previous government under the programme adopted in 2014. The effects of the clause, the effects of the single tax file, and you have written specific amounts in discretionary income, will have to wait a bit, especially since you have not yet started any clause-based procedure, there are also no instruments at the moment allowing the use of a single control file. Moreover, the reform of the tax administration and the chaos it will generate will not help to improve the efficiency of the administration and certainly the collection of taxes. They are bad, incomprehensible to entrepreneurs, but incomprehensible also to the employees of this administration, generate uncertainty and fear. Enough of that, they're not afraid of criminals, they're afraid of honest taxpayers. This is certainly not the budget to meet the expectations of Poles. This will also be shown by my colleagues in subsequent speeches. It's a high-risk budget. We cannot support it, and on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u84	I ask that Mrs Elżbieta Borowska speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Budgetary Act is based on a vision of the state and shows how the current government thinks about society and its role. The budget is not just dry figures, because these figures determine the lives of millions of Poles. These figures, these so-called budgets of the Third Republic of Poland pushed almost 3 million Poles abroad. On the other hand, this budget was created under new circumstances, because for the first time after 1989 it did not have to be a draft political compromise, and it was a project of a single-party parliamentary majority, and the government had a great chance to first adopt a pro-Citizen budget. Unfortunately, this project we have received is a budget of lost opportunities and broken electoral promises. This is an anti-Citizen budget. One by one, I will present the main sins of this budget. First of all, debt. The Kukiz Movement15 calls for a ban on the adoption of a state budget with a deficit. Why? Because only this year will the government spend PLN 30 billion on debt handling, on interest. 30 billion zlotys thrown into the mud. 30 billion PLN is more than Poland spends on the army, twice as much as Poland spends on higher education and it is six times more than Poland spends on science. Instead of investing in young people, the government tightens a loop around their necks. The Government of Law and Justice is no different from previous governments, which have been billing Poles for 27 years for their distribution, mismanagement and throwing money in the mud. Second, waste. Once again, policies of waste are being pursued, and these public funds are being thrown into the mud. There is no implementation of the announcements of cutting red tape, unnecessary offices. And here the field for action is wide. Examples: about 10 billion goes to the Social Security Office and to the tax administration. The collection of taxes and payment of benefits in Poland deals with about 100,000. officials. Young people don't believe they're ever gonna get a pension, so this is where the cuts should be made and for example. finally eliminate the ZUS, put the pension issue in order. 85 million PLN is awarded to the Polish Tourist Organization, i.e. travel agency for officials, because there is no translation into the promotion of Poland. Moreover, there are an average of three employees per director, and this is an outrageous situation. 50 million PLN for party subsidies. They're spent on stupid TV spots. Later throughout Poland we have posted posters with the slogan "We will work together in Poland." For liquidation. Every now and then we hear about agencies and institutions, e.g. For the fight against doping, for the extra water control, and this is all from our taxes, managed by our party colleagues. Third, tax increases. Within one year, taxes have been increased five times and two new taxes have been introduced. At this rate, you will quickly break the record of your colleagues on the Platform, who have raised their taxes 21 times. Achievements in picking up Poles are bank tax, shop tax, VAT increase on fast food, maintenance of VAT increase for 2017 contrary to the electoral promise, no increase in tax-free amount contrary to the electoral promise, tax on windmills, 5% higher ZUS contributions for small companies since 2017 In other words, 500 PLN was paid to the few, while on average almost 4,000 PLN is taken out of the pockets of each Pole during the year. zł. You want to introduce a tax on drugs, increase taxes on fuel, where at this point the price of fuel is 50%. taxes, introduce new car taxes, water consumption fee, public media premium for each electricity user. This will continue to push Poles into exile. Finally, about what the pro-Citizen budget should look like according to the Kukiz15 movement. Firstly, a balanced budget. None of us have a moral right to be in debt to the next generation. And the truth is that all governments for debt should face the Court of State. Secondly, full transparency of public spending, because it's not politicians' money, it's not sejm money, it's government money, it's citizens' money. Thirdly, we expect Minister Morawiecki, who in Krynica said that we spend PLN 50 billion a year on officials, will eventually start reducing these expenses and this will be seen in the draft budget law. And fourthly, lower taxes often translate into higher budget revenues. We should go towards taxing work. Poles are one of the most entrepreneurial, hardworking nations, and for 27 years they have maintained political improprieties and parasites. We must stop milking Poles at last, we must reduce debts, reduce the absurd rules we have in Poland at the moment, and excessive taxation of work. Then my generation, my peers, my friends, who are abroad at this moment, will think about going back to Poland. And I can see that next year you don't give them that chance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u86	Please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u87	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The next year's budget is a concert of pious wishes. Over-tax revenues that grow more than twice as fast than GDP. The level of GDP that has been systematically adjusted for more than a year has been blown. Doubtful inflation. The wishful thinking rate of investment that is about to start to grow at a crazy rate, and so far, it's just dropping. It's actually just some of the shortcomings of next year's budget. This is not a development budget. It's a survival budget. You can't do this. The expected deficit - nearly PLN 60 billion - is 2.9% GDP and it will be a miracle to keep it at this level. You're balancing the edge of the excessive deficit procedure because you have no moderation. Nobody's ever been in debt before. Poland at such a rate. The Civic Platform doubled the country's debt, you'll triple it. You spent your money, and today you're really wondering where to get it. In the election campaign, you said that money was lying on the street, but you need to bend over to get 50 billion zlotys from VAT sealing - you didn't do anything. After a year you fired the finance minister because he couldn't, because he couldn't get the money out of the Poles' pockets so they wouldn't notice, because sealing the tax system turned out to be too difficult for you. It's time to admit it. The worst part is, you don't learn from your mistakes. Next year, you plan to raise more billions of taxes in the same way. It's virtual money you can't get. Well, unless you release your hound dogs on Polish taxpayers, because repression of entrepreneurs, not healthy legislation, is your idea of extra money in the budget. You're looking for money nervously, miscalculating the proceeds from the new taxes. It was supposed to be 5 billion zlotys of bank tax, three out. It was supposed to be 2 billion zlotys from the commercial tax, it came out zero. The same will be true of the new VAT Act, the effects of which you have entered into next year's budget, which we do not really know yet. We said you couldn't do it. We were right. A higher tax-free amount - you couldn't do it. You didn't make it. Return to the basic VAT rate of 22% - you didn't make it. Zero VAT on children's clothes - you couldn't make it. You didn't make it. Delivered promises are caricatures of your plans: free medicines for seniors, CIT for entrepreneurs, 500 PLN for selected children. Of course, everything on loan, hence this record high deficit, and interest will be paid by Poles. 30 billion PLN is the annual cost of handling debt. It would be enough for 500 PLN for each child and even higher amount of free money. It's easy to waste money, it's much harder to pay. You do not have enough chaos and uncertainty of Poles. You want to tear down the rest of your sense of stability by turning the pension and tax system upside down. The mess is your synonym. Let's face it, you promise people a lower retirement age, not to mention that for many it simply means poverty in old age. Half of today's 40-year-olds and their younger friends will be retiring. The situation of men is not going to be much better, because their pensions for those two years earlier in the chair in front of the TV are 20%. lower influences. For many, these 20% are the power of survival. Already today, payments from the budget to pensions of Poles amount to nearly PLN 80 billion. After your changes, the hole in the system will be even bigger, and the ZUS will become virtually completely bankrupt. You're gonna have to raise your taxes, and you know it. Camouflage in the form of a uniform tribute won't do you any good. Poles can count. They also know that Germany is building a car factory in Poland for their money. You were so desperate, you decided to pay 80 million zlotys in live cash. The additional bonus for choosing Poland is of course income tax relief, because the engine factory is created in a special economic zone. Once again, the star becomes a symbol of the propaganda of power. You have a mouth full of clichés about the support of Polish entrepreneurship, while you want to increase taxes on Polish entrepreneurs to pay western corporations to their factories. Is this the Polish economic patriotism you talk about so often? Additional water charges, additional electricity charges are also a post-election bonus for citizens. And this latest idea, many Poles probably haven't heard it yet, so it's worth it. say - The PiS has found another scandalous way to draw billions of dollars out of voters' pockets - to eliminate the possibility of joint settlement of spouses, to eliminate family benefits. And apparently the current government is the one that brings support to Polish families on the banners. Congratulations! You're planning a state budget on your knees. You're planning a state budget in chaos. You're planning a state budget full of obvious mistakes and wishful thinking. What you're doing is the highest degree of irresponsibleness. You have no control over the public debt. You spend money in moderation. You spend money you don't have. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u88	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Ms Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Polish People's Party for these two projects: budget law and around budget law. Already at the outset of the 2017 budget analysis, it should be noted that the government is missing the truth between the budgetary policy objectives and the planned implementation of the budget, both on the income side and on the expenditure side. Most of the parameters and volumes adopted in the draft budget have nothing to do with the budgetary policy objectives adopted, i.e. maintaining the sustainability of public finances while supporting economic growth. The project does not give any guarantee of the sustainability of public finances or any chance of our country's economic growth. The most controversial and unacceptable is the deficit of the state budget, which at the end of December 2017 is set at almost PLN 60 billion. This is a record value not recorded so far in the history of Poland. Deficit accounts for up to 2.9% GDP with a 3% threshold threatening the introduction of an excessive deficit procedure. In comparison, I will remind you of the 2015 deficit, which amounted to 42.6 billion, with the PiS increasing it by 3600 million in mid-December, deliberately transferring revenues from the sales of the LTE frequency to 2016. There is no rational justification for the increase in the deficit by almost 30% compared to 2015, and the deficit of the whole public finance sector in 2017 is planned at almost PLN 65 billion. The government ensures that EU regulations in the Stability and Growth Package as well as in national legislation, including restrictions resulting from the application of a stabilising expenditure rule, are respected. It is a pity that these are only empty words not reflected in the budget. Moreover, the expenditure rule was loosened last year, and the analysis of the budget shows that there is no trend towards saving with economic development that is relatively favourable at the moment, which is a fundamental principle of stabilising the expenditure rule. There's no saving in this budget, and if it is, it's on the weakest. The macroeconomic indicators adopted in the budget, on the basis of which this draft budget was drawn, raise a number of doubts. The most important of the indicators, i.e. gross domestic product, is to be 3.6%. It's definitely overrated. According to World Bank forecasts, it will reach 3.2% and the International Monetary Fund estimates it at 3.1%. GDP at current prices, here is also a strong increase, I will remind you, is growing from PLN 1789 billion in 2015 to almost PLN 2 trillion planned for 2017. The export forecast is decreasing. In 2015, exports were 6,8% , planned for the current 5.8% In 2107 it's only 5%. The forecast of imports in turn, unfortunately, with a tendency to increase consecutively: 6,3%, 6,4% And again 6.3%. National demand will increase by 3.7% according to the plan up to 4.2% this year next year. The planned inflation for 2017 is 1.3% with deflation in the current year 0.5% and 0.9% last year. The net lending needs of the state budget will amount to PLN 79 billion with the planned PLN 64 720 million in 2016, an increase of 22.1%. These needs are due to a significant increase in the level of public sovereign debt, which at the end of 2015, amounted to 877 billion, which was 49% GDP and in 2016 it will amount to almost PLN 954 billion and that is 51.4% GDP, and the 2017 plan is 1 021 400 million and it will already be 52.3% GDP. High Izbo! According to this preliminary set of indicators, based on which the 2017 budget was drawn up, the draft budget adopts premature, overly optimistic economic forecasts. There's no margin of error in this budget. PiS does not seem to notice that the value of listed companies, in which the State Treasury holds shares, dropped by as much as 40 billion PLN. The revenue in the draft budget has been clearly overestimated; it is overestimated almost in each item of tax revenue. Following the adoption of certain sealing solutions, it is expected that the tax gap will be reduced, but the adoption of revenue values too optimisticly, based on unrealistic indicators, leads to error. Tax revenue will amount to PLN 301 155 million, i.e. 9.4% nominally more than expected performance in 2016 I do not see the possibilities and the need to refer them to the value of GDP, because GDP has also been strongly overstated. I have already pointed this out in the previous part of the speech. The expenditure of the state budget in 2017 will amount to PLN 384, almost PLN 385 billion and will be higher than planned by more than 16 billion, i.e. 4.4%. More than 23 billion are planned for the 500+ family programme, i.e. by 6 billion more than in 2016. The programme's assumptions remain unfair; they do not take into account this simple principle of gold for money in low income families, the scope of children with disabilities has not been extended; they also do not include adult children but learners. I personally know a family with five children who do not receive any gold because four learn in high school and in college, and this fifth is the first and does not receive any gold. The increase in salaries in the national budgetary sphere and teachers' salaries will be at inflation level, or 1,3%. The funding for medicines for seniors over 75 years of age will actually increase by around 400 million, and I would like to say that compared to the fact that 125 million were in force this year from 1 September, this is in proportion at the same level, nothing changes here. There's growth, but there's no effect on seniors. So this is what this announcement of free drugs looks like: there is still a leaf of vitamin C for a few zlotys for each eligible senior. In addition to this aid for older people, for the elderly there is also a guarantee of an increase of 10 PLN per month. I'm asking if it's a joke. That's what cheating people is like, and most often it's the weakest ones, those who, due to their age, can simply not cope. And there's no way to ask why there's nothing in this budget about a tax-free amount for people who live below the minimum of existence. In addition, measures in the "Senior-WIGOR" programme adopted in 2015 were also cut off in this project. There, with a total planned PLN 340 million, for 2017 the expenditure is planned to be reduced to PLN 30 million. 35 multi-annual programmes, which aim to secure funds for economic investment, deserve attention in the implementation of the budget. Some of them have been cut very heavily. In conclusion, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party cannot accept such a prepared draft budget. This budget is simply irresponsible, and it was prepared according to the philosophy of governance implemented by the PiS. In your mouths, in your speeches is the power of clichés speaking of lofty ideals, but they are not entirely reflected in reality. Even this morning, I listened to Minister Kempa assure Poles that there are no tax increases, on the contrary, there is a reduction for entrepreneurs from 19 to 15%. You repeat this as a mantra, that you are lowering, and why you are not telling the truth, that entrepreneurs themselves will pay for this reduction, because even the law introducing the reduction of these rates brings with it such changes in taxation that, as a result, there is a revenue for the state budget, for which entrepreneurs themselves will pay, and even with an excess. It is difficult to see support for development, entrepreneurship, economy or investment in this budget. The rulers forgot about the weaker, disabled, pensioners, those living between the minimum of existence and the minimum of social life. Analyzing this project, it feels like it's just been developed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just for today, here and now, without even wondering what's gonna happen tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, what we're gonna leave to our kids and grandchildren. Poland's debt is growing at an alarming rate. There is no future in this financial economy and there is great concern. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u90	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u91	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle in the budget debate. We look with optimism at the project submitted to the Sejm. This is the first budget drawn up from the outset by the Government of Law and Justice, the first joint and several budget. The third Polish Republic ends with its numerous pathologies, economic scandals, wildlife privatisation and unfair reprivatization, contempt and... [[A vote for two hands.]] ...the soullessness of the state towards the little ones, and the impunity and kindness of the strong. We had state bodies more concerned about the fate of foreign entities than our own citizens. So-called. The transformation of the system brought a rapid introduction of the free market, but with numerous pathologies, with workers released on the pavement and property sold for priceless, with a huge crowd of excluded people, e.g. former employees of PGRs who have been unemployed in localities cut off from the world. Under the motto of supporting the private sphere, we had private profits, and the social costs borne by the gray citizens. This budget is an expression of different policies and changes in thinking and actions. We welcome the good balance of accents and the choice of priorities by the government. For me, the subject of the shipbuilding industry is important. After the collapse in previous years, we can finally count on the active role of the state in this matter. An example of such actions, which took place recently, is the agreement on the financing of the construction of two passenger-car ferries for about PLN 1 billion concluded by Poland's Baltic Shipping, the Polish Development Fund and PKO BP. The construction of ferries in four Polish shipyards will give a boost to development for the region and create new jobs. This is the kind of action we need as much as possible. This budget is characterised by concern for the weakest, focusing on those areas where the state should support and help. The budget includes funds for the 500+ programme and free medicines for seniors, which is the next step towards real solidarity. We appreciate the importance of revenue growth, especially as this will be done by improving tax collection rather than by selling assets. It is important that focusing on the fiscal objective does not obscure the picture of reality, does not obscure the fact that most taxpayers are honest. Among them are entrepreneurs moving in a thicket of complex tax regulations, which are unclear even for IRS employees. System change is needed and unnecessary bureaucracy is reduced. Since 2008, the number of officials in Poland has increased by 150 thousand. And it's over 1 million people. Does the number of officials translate into our satisfaction from the level of service in offices? How are the salaries paid in companies of the Treasury or offices for the salary of nurses or teachers? Complicated law results in costs on the part of citizens who have to pay lawyers or tax advisors. It's also a cost on the state side. Each simplification will bring tangible savings. There's a huge field here. It is also worth paying attention to the underfunding of certain areas. Unfortunately, the budget is not made of rubber, and rational management within the resources available is crucial. When you spend public money, you have to watch every dollar. Education reform can be an example of this. It is known that the resources are insufficient. Isn't it better to spend money first on teacher raises? How can a teacher or academic train an elite when he can barely afford a book or go to a theater? The provision of the Act also concerns the redemption of loans granted to the Social Insurance Fund from the State budget for the years 2009 and 2014, which are due to be repaid on 31 March 2017, and the debt amounts to over 39 billion PLN. Instead of providing funds to the Social Insurance Fund, the Minister of Finance of the previous government granted loans, even though he knew that they would never be repaid. This is a hidden public debt that the Civic Platform has tried to hide and which we now have to pay back. Over the years, the problem of the deficit has been swept under the rug, but we are finally back to normal. This is the end of creative accounting, and for that reason alone we will support the proposed [[♪ The bell ♪]] the solution. The Seym debate is governed by its laws. There is no room in this forum to analyse each item from several hundred-page draft budget law. In conclusion, we support the overall direction of change, but there is still much to be done. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u92	Thank you. Mr Jan Szewczak, Club Law and Justice. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u93	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go to section 79 on public debt, debt management, debt management strategy, I have this appeal to a few people who are interested in this issue, so that we can use the brain in this budget debate, not the brain in the Venetian sauce, and it is in the fumes of absurdity, because a whole series of these statements, so to speak, differ from the substance of the case. I understand the rights of opposition to criticism, but let's keep some reasonableness in all of this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u94	I would very much like to ask you to avoid such terms in the plenary room. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, living on credit is not an expression of patriotism or discretion. We all know that. As Baron Rothschild used to say, to catch birds, you have to spill sugar first. This debt of sugar has been spread out in the world really too much, it is estimated that 152 trillion dollars. And we, unfortunately, thanks to our elites or so-called. The elites, as some say, are also such a debt-bearing bird. Unfortunately, that's a fact, that must be said. Unfortunately, the assessment of Polish debt has not been good for years. This scale of threats is very low, although the new government is trying to do so and some figures, some indicators indicate that this is the right direction. In addition, private debt and public debt are growing faster than GDP. So maybe we'll have an alternative that we'll either have a higher growth, or we'll have to definitely reduce this debt, because the debt wrongly used, and that's what the past 26 years, and especially for the last eight years, can be anti-development, but it can be pretty deadly for you, which the Greeks have learned best. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, one side of the coin, which raises the opposition, is that we have economic growth - it was evident in the speech of the Member, the representative of the Civic Platform - that long-term economic growth in recent years is around 240% but it is not added to the other side of the coin that this increase took place on credit and the increase in this debt was almost 200%, and only in the last 8 years, as Prime Minister Morawiecki correctly pointed out, under the Platform and PSL this increase in debt was 100% So it's gigantic. So we are, ladies and gentlemen, undoubtedly all as a nation, as a state in an extremely dangerous trap, because we are in such a triple trap. For we are, first of all, trapped in the so-called. average development, but also credit-based development, in addition, thirdly, on the basis of foreign credit, because the share of foreign investors in financing the loan needs of the state budget is huge. As far as the scale of the treasury securities is concerned, this amount is already close to PLN 200 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, it's growing - and it's getting more dangerous - so-called. negative international net investment position of Poland. I will remind you that in 2000 this net position was -31% and it increased in 2015 to close to -70% in relation to GDP, and it is recognised in the world that the level is relatively safe is -35, which means that we have already exceeded this safe level twice. This illustrates the actual state of our finances, public and private finances, and shows the wealth of Poles, the wealth of the Polish state. We are today, ladies and gentlemen, 50 times poorer than the Germans, but interestingly, we are 20 times poorer than the Greeks, whose level of debt in relation to GDP is at an astronomical level - almost 180%. So the biggest threat to Poland, in my opinion, is neither the lack of caracalas nor the marching of black shirts with black umbrellas, but it is a deficit of national savings, i.e. the dominant share in these savings of non-residents, i.e. foreign savings, in practically every segment of the market, please state, and treasury securities, and on the stock exchange, and on the currency market, where there is almost 80% This domination. So, in short, it is not us, Poles, who are unfortunately dealing cards in this matter, and we would like it to be different. And in this direction, the government's economic and financial policy will undoubtedly be directed. Ladies and gentlemen, the financial weakness of the Polish economy and finance is also well illustrated by another indicator, i.e. an index of financial independence - capital-freeze index, which measures the country's sensitivity to a sudden outflow or inflow of foreign capital. And imagine that Poland is here - as President Sasin mentioned - in the absolute world front. As far as Europe is concerned, only Turkey and Romania are more at risk of these sudden flows or flows of portfolio capital. So it can be said that any turbulence, please, on the international stage, such as an increase in interest rates in the United States, such as Grexit, which can happen, because it was not believed that Brexit would be, the truth, how the deepening of the conflict in Ukraine, how the European Central Bank reduces the money-printing policy or, finally, the increase in the Swiss franc rate - because, please, if the Americans raise interest rates in December, I do not think that the Swiss would move and allow money from Switzerland to go overseas - could mean very serious changes in exchange rate relations, and therefore, issues related to debt costs, value, bond profitability. Ladies and gentlemen, we are trying to make in this budget and in this policy, one can say, concerning the issue of debt management, the reduction of this risk, which is already undoubtedly for Poland, the risk that we are a permanently dependent country - so far permanently dependent - on foreign debt and further financing of debt. Poland undoubtedly needs to increase, as a canyon, national savings and real incentives to create these savings. Of course, you have to have something to save from, right, because if there are lousy salaries, you won't be able to spare yourself too much. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the aim of the debt management strategy in the years 2017 and 2020 must be to minimise the costs of long-term debt management and to reduce debt in short-term loans. And this is done, and we do it slowly. And it must be said that we certainly already have this phenomenon visible in the indicators, because the cost of service, as Prime Minister Morawiecki said, falls by more than PLN 1 billion from the item 31 billion PLN in the previous budget or the current budget. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the public finance debt management strategy should be consistent with the state budget for 2017. This sphere of the budget part, in my opinion, is underestimated by the financial community, because bankrupt can make any plans and little can come of it. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, as I said, the draft budget reduces the cost of handling debt from item 31 800 million to item 30 400 million. This is not a great amount of money, of course, but it is undoubtedly a movement in the right direction. As far as the issue of sovereign public debt is concerned, your PSL representative here showed these amounts - public debt in 2015 was 870 billion, in 2016-953 billion, and in 2017 it is going to be 1002 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, although nominally this is growth, if you look at the differences, you can see that this is a reduction in this increase. So not only is the nominal amount of debt important, but also the rate of growth or the slower pace. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, these indicators on net, gross lending needs that you can find there are not so different, although, of course, it can be said that the net lending needs are at 79 billion against 64 over the past period, but as far as gross lending needs are concerned, they are similar. As far as the revenue and revenue of the state budget are concerned, please, this has already been mentioned. Mr Sasin has said a lot about this. Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of foreign income and income, we can say: unfortunately, we will continue to benefit from the services of the European Investment Bank, the World Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank. These are the next items on government bonds or loans. It is certainly impossible to get away from this addiction very quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, these mechanisms are designed to minimise the costs of debt service, to serve the efficiency of the treasury markets, to reduce risks, and these risks really exist, ladies and gentlemen. I want to remind you from history that raising the price of money in the United States involved very negative phenomena in Poland. I will remind you that this took place in December 1970 and June 1976, and undoubtedly such a moment may be coming in the United States. So you can say that there are, of course, more questions on this issue than answers. You must certainly answer questions about how to pursue development, how to chase the wealth of other countries, without becoming a slave of debt or a semi-colonial country, because such a model has been in force in Poland for many years, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, let's say, unfortunately. The question is how to reduce the risk of Poland's insolvency at all, so as not to interrupt development processes, how to wisely use debt financing, for which to spend loans, because this is also important. If we're borrowing, it makes sense for this to be for development, not for overeating, building bike paths and cold water, ladies and gentlemen. Will national savings be able to finance the long-term growth we are planning? These are all questions that you will surely have to look for together for answers. It is not only the responsibility of the rulers, but also those who are in opposition today. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that there is a clear trend, a new vision in the approach to public debt, debt abroad and the use of national savings. Let us hope that these phenomena will be sustained in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u96	Thank you very much. I'd like the floor of Mrs. Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Very many of my predecessors in Law and Justice speak from this speaker about vision, I would just like to quote a fairly well-known saying that a vision without implementation is just a hallucination. I hope you will not remain at this stage. [[Applause]] High Seym! Prime Minister Morawiecki has been a bad minister of development for a year and has been a bad minister of finance for several weeks. Why is he a bad minister of development? A few facts: PiS took over the driven economy, in Q4 2015 GDP dynamics amounted to 3.9% Today we only have 3%. This is how the pace of Poland's development has fallen under the rule of Prime Minister Morawiecki. During this period, investments decreased by 5%. Experts say it's a collapse, Mr. Prime Minister was kind enough to call it an investment hole. Prime Minister, it's not a hole, it's a hole, and it's gonna be hard for you to get out of it. EU funds - the Minister for Development is directly responsible for this. Attention, Ministry of Development's homepage: EU funds of 2% spent. 2% EU funds were able to release Prime Minister Morawiecki, who had said not so long ago: We will not spend EU funds, we will invest them. Invest, spend EU funds on investments, not eat money from the pocket of a Polish taxpayer, [[Applause]] 'Cause for now, that's all you're doing. Finally, the flagship work of Prime Minister Morawiecki - the strategy for responsible development, in short the SOR. The S.R.E. for all Poles is actually associated with the hospital rescue unit. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not too far from this document, really. [[The S.O.R. is associated with the Civic Platform.]] The compactness and facade of this document can be seen very clearly on the simplest example. Well, as a dangerous phenomenon for Poland, a decreasing number of people of working age on the labour market are mentioned in the strategy. That's the diagnosis. What does the government propose? It proposes the lowest retirement age in Europe. The lower retirement age is only in Russia Vladimir Putin. I understand that Putin loves the sovereign as much as you do, and that's why Women can work there as short as you want to fund Poles and give them starving pensions in connection with it. Examples of contradictions, empty passwords and generalities in the plan or Moravian strategy could be multiplied, but we will devote a separate critical analysis of this document to this. Let's get back to finance for next year. Why is Prime Minister Morawiecki a bad finance minister? Well, listening to Minister Morawiecki's speech, one could think that Poles dreamt of nothing but paying more taxes. Prime Minister, this is not the case. Poles want to pay the taxes due to the state - as much as necessary. They don't want to finance your populist promises, and remember that. Meanwhile, your 2017 budget law shows tax revenue assuming that the VAT rate is increased to 23%. The fact that you are raising, and not maintaining, was said by the Minister, Mr President Silchoń. But let us clarify one more thing: the increased VAT rate was our response to the global crisis. When other governments cut pensions, when unemployment among young people was over 50% in Spain, then we raised the basic VAT rate by 1%. But what did we do at the same time? The VAT rate for basic food, bread, butter, milk, meat, grits - food, which is what the poorest people spend on - we have reduced from 7% to 5%. Meanwhile, you maintain increased VAT. Someone answer me, maybe the finance minister, to the question: What is the reason for this? Is there a global crisis? Why are you raising this VAT for 2017? [[Applause]] [[We hold it, not lift it.]] There's no crisis. You have to fill in the budget hole that you've made yourself. Raising the VAT rate, sir, is not the only tax. Prime Minister Morawiecki taxed credit, taxed capital and was surprised that he had no capital and people did not want to invest. You shouldn't have taxed credit, so maybe the investments would have been. Experts are warning that investment loans are frozen. Until recently, as part of de minimis aid, our government has supported small and medium-sized enterprises with billions of loan guarantees. It doesn't exist with you guys. Minister Morawiecki's predecessor - because you have already changed the Minister of Finance - wanted to tax hypermarkets. We've been saying from the beginning that it's impossible. Prime Minister Morawiecki stated that he would, however, negotiate with the European Commission. What does such negotiations with the European Commission mean? After all, you know perfectly well that this is taxation of small Polish shops, otherwise it cannot be done. But you already have income from this tax... At least you had to cross out the name. You called it other tax revenues and put 1.2 billion into this budget bill, which means you don't know how to download it from the Poles yet, but you know you will. In general, in these tax revenues there was a miraculous multiplication between the draft of Minister Shamacha and the project of Minister Morawiecki. You have almost 3 billion more tax revenues in a few weeks. CIT - 1,2 billion more, VAT - 0.5 billions and what, and these other tax revenues - also more than a billion. It is good that we have the budget, ladies and gentlemen, in the Seym, because we do not know what Prime Minister Morawiecki would have invented over the next weeks and what new tax revenues he would have introduced into the budget. Nor have I heard the Minister of Development and Finance in one person object to the uniform tax that you have stolen from the Civic Platform for several months, but you have so changed his concept that some tax francenstein came out of it. I haven't heard that the Minister of Development and Economics in one... So he is not only a bad minister of development and finance, but also a bad minister of the economy, because he wants to tax small and medium-sized enterprises, those entrepreneurs who produce almost 80% of Polish gross domestic product. They're gonna take away a 19-percent linear tax. You won't be able to make it back in 2017, but there's a announcement for 2018. Two important parameters for the Minister of Finance, the Minister also spoke about this in his speech: deficit and debt. Deficit is the key word for billions from the European Union. Up to 3% These billions may not be there. The Minister of Finance has established a deficit of 2.9 on the assumption that local government units will have surplus. I mean, you assumed that there would be no investment in local governments, because only then is the surplus possible. Or else, you want to exceed 3%. the acceptable deficit, because you cannot invest EU funds, so in fact you probably don't need it, and you will blame all the blame on the wrong European Commission - because once there is foreign capital, once there are banks, once there are bad banks, against us there is the European Commission, the Venice Commission, recently even the UN is hostile. Haven't you ever wondered why you have enemies all around you? It's worth thinking about sometimes. [[Because you guys have all your friends.]] Returning to the deficit: only the evil finance minister allows the economic deficit to be at the highest possible level in time. A good finance minister runs a countercyclical economy, which means he makes a safety cushion in good time. When a bad time comes - and one day it will come, because the economy is subject to the economic cycle - you will leave Poles helpless. You will use all the instruments now that the economy is developing. You run populist, pro-cyclical and economical activities. [[With a human face.]] Finally, the public debt... Mr President, the human face has it to do with you that in your edition it will be brief and there will be a moment when you will have to tell the Poles: we have no money. [[We'll see.]] We've heard a lot about public debt today about how bad he is. Okay. There is only such a document as the Multiannual Financial Plan of the State. The Civic Platform for 2017 planned a public debt of 50.7% GDP. Law and Justice changed this provision and increased public debt for 2017 to 52.5%. 2% GDP, which is almost 40 billion, is increasing public debt, while saying that this is very bad. It turns out that Prime Minister Morawiecki was telling the truth, you finance 500+ from debt, but it is even worse, because in this multiannual financial plan that we are sending to the European Commission, you wrote this sentence: Because of the ongoing work on the target of new solutions in socio-economic policy, the proposed changes regarding the statutory retirement age and the income tax-free amount have not been taken into account in the base scenario presented. What does that mean? That means that this debt will be even greater by several tens of billions. This in turn means that Minister Morawiecki is moving towards a great, unfortunately unbecoming Greek disaster. Finally, we would like to ask the Prime Minister the question: Mr Prime Minister, will you have the courage here, in the Polish Parliament, to tell Poles what you said at the party meeting of Law and Justice activists, that you finance 500+ from debt, that you give Poles a vacation on credit, that the next government will have to figure out how your inability to fix your money to stay in families, but so that Poland is not bankrupt? We're looking at your hands... [[We're not afraid.]] [[In the eyes.]] ...we will expose your populism and inability, because they are dangerous for the future of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u98	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the beginning, I will briefly refer to Mrs Leszczyna's speech. I wanted to remind you that this, I believe, platform robbed OFE, not the PiS government, to be strict. [[And for how long.]] It only took the Platform five years to spend the money that citizens had to save in sweat for several years. Back to the criticism of the budget, because as an opposition we will criticize the budget, first of all I will quote one of the first sentences of the justification: In 2017, there will be a production gap in relation to potential GDP. What does that mean? This means that the simple GDP growth reserves are slowly being exhausted. If there is no sharp growth, the investment boom, if we do not reduce the investment risk, so that private parties decide to invest and that this investment boom contributes to creating new jobs and further GDP growth, we will be able to halt GDP growth and we can only reminisce in a few years, as it was, when GDP grew between 3% a 5% because the second extensible factor, apart from this gap between real GDP and potential human capital... You wrote yourself that unemployment would fall to 8%, i.e. that simple human reserves are already running out. I don't know how much we're gonna download. Ukrainians, by building up these reserves, but the basic GDP growth reserves are running out. The investment rate, which is now, does not result from this - as the Platform said here - that we do not have money, the loans are too high because we introduced bank tax. No, it is due to an overly high perception of investment risk by so-called. total investors. Entrepreneurs do not invest because, first, they have nowhere to sell, second, the investment risk rate is too high at the moment to invest. If we do not change these two factors, i.e. we will not find markets, that is, we will not launch a pro-export policy, and we will not reduce the investment risk, in a few years the lack of an adequate investment rate will result - private investment, because in state investments we can melt any money and they will always be less efficient than private - then we will have a significant decline in GDP over a period of several years. And if there's any more deconciliation, we're going to have negative GDP. Yeah, well, I'm very careful about that. Please note that simple elements, simple GDP growth transmissions are running out and we are facing a significant decline in GDP growth in the near future. The second thing I wanted to draw attention to. Ladies and gentlemen, you are planning a large increase in expenditure. With this increase in spending, I understand that you want to cover the deficits in the decomposition of GDP related to investment. Domestic demand, consumption is to be at this point - partly public consumption, but also private consumption driven by public subsidies - the basic component to keep all this going. But I don't see any increase in the base amount. Why is there a base amount when it comes to growth in the budgetary sphere? You want to raise people's income, you want to raise their salaries, but if the private industry is in the deconstruct, if private production is in the deconacture, then you can only do so by increasing salaries in the budgetary sphere. But it's not an increase that if we like somebody, we'll raise them locally, and if we don't like somebody, we're not gonna raise them locally, we're gonna raise them by some sort of systemic growth. So we need to think about the basic amount policy. The base amount has not been raised in many, many years or was raised minimally. Perhaps this impulse would only cause pressure to raise wages in the private sector as well. You can't see that. The main drawback of this budget is that no real work has been done on administrative reform, i.e. there is still an army of officials that we keep from the central budget, from the local budgets - whatever. There are still 3 degrees of local government, there are still huge reserves of administrative reduction, reduction of bureaucracy and practically nothing has been done in this direction. So in the best year of government, the first year when real reforms can be made, administration has not been cut off. [[Applause]] You're probably not gonna cut down the administration at all, because you're gonna be scared, so to speak, of choices that are gonna be one by one, and we're gonna forget at this point for the next four years about reducing the administration. This is very bad, because here you would even have provisions for innovative expenditure. But you didn't. Another thing, you do not raise the issue of the Social Security Office, and the cause of all financial crises in Poland is demography, and the direct transmission of demography is the crisis of the Social Security Office, the upcoming financial crisis of health services, and the moment it turns out that the taxpayer base is beginning to shrink and there is no tax revenue in local governments, the crisis of local governments. You and ZUS didn't do anything either. You say you work that you think, but you have the first budget, and I don't see any reform of the ZUS, and without reform of the ZUS budget... The U.S.S. will eat all the money, and in the demographic perspective, it's going to get worse. It is good that we reverse the retirement age, just as he is entitled to acquired rights, but without the reform of the Social Security Office, this means a financial disaster in the long term. Next digression - CIT and dividend. Ladies and gentlemen, you are assuming a gigantic increase in CIT revenues, while at the same time assuming a gigantic decrease in dividend revenue. So what's it like? So when it comes to these companies, their economic condition is growing because they can pay higher taxes and their economic condition is falling because they cannot pay higher dividends? Or maybe the private is better than the state and private can pay higher taxes because it is in good condition, and the state is badly managed and cannot pay dividends such as at the previous level because it no longer spent. Then you will decide what is the condition of these Polish companies, these Polish corporations. Incidentally, please take care of KGHM, Because if I'm getting information that the Polish government is going to Tokyo to talk to commercial banks so that these banks do not claim loans they gave KGHM for a memorable investment in Sierra Gorda, and KGHM is on the verge of bankruptcy, then maybe we should set up a committee of inquiry or a body, [[Applause]] who will investigate the KGHM case. Because if we're pulling billions out of taxpayers, hardworking taxpayers, who are poor in the majority, we're pulling billions out of them, and we're already losing tens of billions of dollars in KGHM investments with a generous hand. This thing's not right. And I haven't heard anyone lean on the KGHM case and draw any consequences. [[Applause]] Next thing you know, if I may, investments and imports. Ladies and gentlemen, you assume, here is the assumption that the investments are expected to increase by 6%. I understand that, above all, state investments. But at the same time behind these investments, please note, there is a much faster pace of import growth than exports. So these investments are like they're going to be mostly filled with imports. It's not a long-term... This is a model of the third world. Third world countries developed in such a way that they imported investment goods and exported basic goods in return. I would like us to export investment goods in the long term, not buy licenses and goods and thus increase imports, and export simple and unprocessed goods. And that's kind of a trace you can find in this analysis. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to warn you. Here Mr Szewczak has already said this. We're about to have an increase in interest rates - in the United States in a moment, after the election. What does that mean? That capital would begin to flee to the United States. If we do nothing, we may be threatened, that we may be threatened with a slight destabilisation of the currency market in Poland, because if capital starts fleeing to the United States, it will start fleeing markets such as Poland, from emerging markets. At this point, the debt-to-GDP ratio with a change in course... You know exactly how this could end. Therefore, I do not know whether we can be happy that public debt service has fallen from 31 billion to 30, because if the world from a zero interest rate cycle, an event on a historical scale, will enter the world of real interest rates, that is, the United States will start and the world will follow and increase interest rates, then it may turn out that the same debt service with an increase in interest rates in a few years. It's not going to be 30 billion, it's going to be 60 billion, and that's not impossible at all. So just because we're in debt because we have very low interest rates, and because of that, the debt service isn't growing, doesn't mean we're not gonna pay double in the future. So no debt is a good result in terms of long-term economic growth. And one more point about this investment programme is the development of innovation. I believe that, first of all, if the state, by its nature, is less efficient than the private sector, is to invest in the economy, i.e. are to be created - industrialisation in the interwar style - state factories, they should be created, if they already have, especially in those sectors where there is a monopoly, a private monopoly. There is a sense, a very logical sense, if the state intervenes on the market when it breaks down monopolies, because every breakthrough of the monopoly is a development in a given industry, that is economic growth, that is the development of industry. However, if the state quietly contributes to the consolidation of monopolies and generates even these monopolies, it is very... it is a shortcut that ends in some kind of abyss. So if we are to invest state money in state factories and that is what industrialization is supposed to be about, then first of all, we break monopolies, private monopolies, German monopolies, because there are many industries in the Polish economy, where quasi-monopoly is established, especially from the German economy, and for example. prices of semi-finished products in various industries are controlled by German entrepreneurs, and this really makes some industries, which could grow much faster, have a very simple blockade. Breaking down monopolies is our goal. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we expect you to make an auto-correction that you will reflect on the tax-free amount, because citizens are about to start applying for a refund on the basis of the Constitutional Court's judgment, and we expect that the budget will primarily address reform and public finances to focus on the reform of the Social Insurance Institution and to significantly reduce red tape in the administration, because without this budget will be increasingly puffed up, increasingly dim and less entrepreneurs and the economy will have to say, and the public sector has to say that once fed it will eat more and more without reconciliation and there will be no efficiency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u100	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u101	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, When I read the draft budget presented by you, I was hoping for a change, at least in some respects. Of course, I understand that health care, health care for the state as well as your predecessors, is, and will probably always be an unwanted element of power. I am also aware that the slogan of even a partial reform of the health system is not as sound as others, which are repeated every 4 years, but nevertheless I was hoping that Minister Radziwiłł would fight for a real increase in health expenditure. Unfortunately, as you can see from the draft budget, he did very little. The main problem of Polish health care is underfunding, so nominal increase in spending will not do much. The increase in health funds must be realistic, taking into account inflation levels and not as is the case in this case. An example of illusory actions is the increase in spending on higher education in health care. It's 1.4%. , which compared with planned inflation of 1,3% does not provide real opportunities for training at an appropriate level of more doctors. Examples of such illusory actions could be multiplied. Another is the reduction in the retirement age that you are announcing. Of course, the age issue itself is a matter for a separate, longer debate, but regardless of the decisions made by the government of the Association Club Modern expectations a coherent senior policy strategy. The only programme currently implemented by you is.Senior - WIGOR. In addition, the measures for its implementation reduce the State by 1/4 compared to this year and by half compared to previous plans. Such actions are incomprehensible, given the demographic changes ahead. Here I would like to refer to Mr Sasin's statement from Law and Justice, which compared 75+ expenditure this year with expenditure next year. This year the planned expenditure level is 125 million, if I remember correctly, over 500 million in the next year. He forgot to say that he compared spending in the fourth quarter of this year with four quarters of next year. If we multiply 125 times 4, it's going to be 500, so it's not any significant increase, and by dividing it by the planned inflation level, it's going to be much less. So, dear seniors, don't believe such promises. An equally inconsistent policy can be seen in terms of funding for the 500+ programme, which, according to your forecasts, should ensure an increase in childhood. On the other hand, you do not ensure better financing for health care and, above all, an increase in wages for young doctors who should take care of the health of all Poles in the future. Such an approach will soon lead to the emigration of educated professionals, resulting in a complete failure of the health system. The last aspect I would like to mention is the surprisingly reduced financial plan of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification. I would like to ask here whether this is due to the fact that you are not planning significant changes in the valuation of medical benefits. I am convinced that most of those who are aware of the extent to which they often differ from reality today. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u102	Thank you. And please take the floor of Maria Zuba, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. [[I think it was a mistake. That's why I didn't break up.]] I'm sorry. Mr Stanisław Huskowski, European Democrats, will be the first, and we will ask you to refrain from speaking for a moment. Sir, I don't have you on this list I have, I'm sorry. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u103	I do not remind you of Maria Zuby, but I will speak in spite of this announcement. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! During the presentation of budget and budget assumptions, Prime Minister Morawiecki was very clever in juggling data and promises. Yes, in your position as Minister of Development, you can have visions, you can be even slightly detached from reality, you can have a lot of desire, but you, Prime Minister, have recently also been Minister of Finance, and this requires great precision, very sober look and very thorough planning. You could say noblesse obligation by performing such a function. Meanwhile, the budget, in our view, is full of promises, is primarily based on wish, and very many of my previous speakers have spoken about it, in particular it is about obtaining additional giant revenue at the level of PLN 26 billion from taxes. It's thinking, in our opinion, purely wishful thinking. We would like companies not to shirk the obligation to pay VAT if they are VAT payers so that they do not shirk the payment of CIT if they are CIT payers, but assume that 26 billion zlotys will increase in this respect, we consider it impossible to implement. Also planned development at 3.6% We consider GDP to be far-fetched. On the right side of the room, it is Mr Sasin, in particular, who is often accused of previous governments as regards the increase in taxes and danins in the last 8 years of the previous coalition. The state calculates that twenty times these tributes or taxes have been increased over the course of these eight years. However, the state, which has already been mentioned here, at least some elements, over the course of the year you have already made several, seven, at least seven cases of increase, de facto increase in taxes or danin. Famous amount free. Even from Mr Sasina's mouth, Minister Sasina was accused against the previous government that the amount of free money did not claim that it was an increase in the burden on citizens in this way. You don't increase it either, which means you increase the load. You're eliminating, in your plans, the mutual taxation of your spouses, which is the resulting relief. For now in the plans, we will see how it will be in reality, but unfortunately some promises you are fulfilling, just those that are severe, often those that are severe for people. You've introduced a bank tax, as the previous speakers have already said. After all, customers pay for this tax, i.e. ordinary Poles, because it is tax shiftable, the burden shiftable. You've introduced a trade tax. That's what we were talking about. It is true that, after the intervention from Brussels, you suspended him, but the proceeds of this tax were still included in the budget, and at a large level, so you will either want to break European law or you will want to charge this tax also to smaller entities, i.e. even small shops, small trading facilities. You are announcing a uniform tax, which will clearly, at least for some taxpayers, mean an increase in the tax burden. You keep your VAT at 23% Although according to the Act it should fall from 1 January to 22%. And by the way, one more remark. Prime Minister Morawiecki was concerned about Poland's debt, which is around 54%. , comparing them to debt in Japan, where it is 240% , if I remember correctly, in relation to GDP, saying that there is mainly internal debt, and with us the external debt is about 60%. I found on the Internet what is the internal and external debt in Japan. If you believe the data I've found, then it's 87%. is internal debt, with Japanese people with bonds and 13% is external. In a simple mathematical operation, external debt in Japan amounts to around 32% of GDP and 208% is internal debt. But in Poland external debt is 32%, not 208%, and only twenty-seven percent is internal debt. In other words, Japan is a very poor example in this comparison. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In conclusion, I would like to say that this budget is assessed as a budget of survival, in which Poles - entrepreneurs and ordinary taxpayers, as well as children - will pay for the fulfilment of the PiS electoral promises, as future generations will pay for this debt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u104	Thank you very much. And now Mrs Maria Zuba, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not that the Law and Justice have enemies everywhere. If for you the Polish society is a transparent glass and you do not see that it is the Polish society that sees the programme of Law and Justice as one with which it is identified, then at this moment your philosophy is incomprehensible, although for 8 years of government we have become accustomed to the fact that you have been sensitive to what Europe says, to what foreign capital says, but you have not listened to Poles. Let me remind you that at the very beginning Prime Minister Beata Szydło in his exposé, in order to make everything clear, stated in the words that in the election campaign as a team of Law and Justice we made a declaration to make a good change in Poland. This change will be based on the fact that as many Poles as possible can benefit from the fruits of development. And she added that our government's social policy is best described by two words: family and justice. And today, when we start working on the state budget for 2017, the first budget entirely prepared by the government Prime Minister Beata Szydło, we can say with satisfaction that it is a social justice budget. The good changes of the Law and Justice Government announced in the election campaign are already being implemented in 2016 on the basis of the budget prepared by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL, but only to a small extent and to a small extent by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. When April 1st this year. Prime Minister Szydło's government introduced the 500+ family programme, the opposition asked: "What is this huge expense you will finance, warns: you will collide with the wall." Today we can announce to skeptics that in 2016 we managed and in the 2017 budget the government secured for the continuation of this programme for families raising children over PLN 23 billion. This money goes to nearly 4 million children. I would like to remind you that according to the criteria, without determining the criterion of income benefits are paid for the second and every subsequent child, while when paying for the first child the income threshold is 800 PLN. And today, ladies and gentlemen, we already know that this year's educational services were paid for 1560 thousand. the first children, or as many as 34.5% all the first children, and for 625 thousand. The only ones. A total of 2185 thousand. children have been included in this programme. What does that mean? This means, ladies and gentlemen, that after 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and PSL, the Polish family lived in poverty and poverty. [[That's bullshit.]] We have also adopted a criterion for families who raise disabled children. This aid was covered by as many as 220 thousand. children with a disability. And so it will be, ladies and gentlemen, next year. Yes, and we know that this is a great financial effort, but this is a very good investment in the future. The Government of Law and Justice treats investment in children as investment in the future generation, not as it was said here today from this speaker that this is a distribution, spending, compared how much we spend on arms. This is a misunderstanding. It is a pity that today those who have had the opportunity to make changes for 8 years have not done so, and in this program they do not see the good flowing for Polish families. For years thousands of Polish families have wanted to live in their own apartment. The lack of low-cost apartments on the market for rent and the lack of credit capacity makes the apartment for them only in the realm of dreams. Unfortunately, attempts to implement any programmes so far have not resulted in effective solutions. In response to the needs of Poles, the Government of Law and Justice in the budget for 2017 secures nearly PLN 1 billion for the implementation of the existing housing programme. We do not do as the Civic Platform did, which, in taking over power, has abandoned the continuation of the Law and Justice programme and for almost a year there has been no support for those in need of housing. Out of this 1 billion will also be implemented the start of the The new housing plan for rent, the housing Plus, the government directs all citizens regardless of their personal situation. Built under this apartment program will be cheap and will be able to transfer their property. [[We'll live, we'll see.]] They will be cheap because they will be built on state land, the value of which will not be included in the price of apartments. The government provides for aid for social construction through funding, grants, preferential loans to be used by local governments, municipal companies, TBSs, housing cooperatives and even developers, while those saving for or renovating housing will have savings bonuses. This program is a helping hand drawn by the Government of Law and Justice to Poles, is an opportunity to solve the housing problem in our country. In the budget of next year the amount of PLN 526 million has been secured for the implementation of the 75+ programme, i.e. free medicines for people over 75 years of age - a programme whose implementation the government started already in this year. Already today, we can say that this help addressed to seniors is a hit. The next changes that the government plans to make next year, for which it secures funds in the budget, are an increase of up to 1 000. PLN - currently amounting to PLN 882 - the lowest pension, total incapacity pension and survivor's pension, an increase from PLN 741 to PLN 840 of social pension, from PLN 676 to PLN 750 of partial incapacity pension. In the budget of next year, the government guarantees the introduction in the social security scheme of farmers of the lowest pension of 1 000. zł. Thus, for the first time in history since the period of transformation, the start of this transformation, the Law and Justice government is aligning farmers, villagers with the inhabitants of cities. On the other hand, from 1 October next year, the government envisages introducing a reduced retirement age and restoring 60 years for women and 65 years for men. This change will result in an increase of 331 thousand. the number of pension benefits paid in December next year. It should also be noted that the draft financial plan of the Social Insurance Fund for 2017 takes into account the effects of the proposed redemption of loans for a total amount of almost PLN 39 152 million granted from the State budget to the Social Insurance Fund for the years 2009 It's an expensive decision. The government of experts and specialists of the Civic Platform and PSL for 5 years has indebted ZUS. In the second year of rule of law, the Government of Law and Justice regulates the commitments after the predecessors, also arranges the way to transfer funds from the state budget to the Social Security Office, does not speak about loans, clearly indicates that this is a grant. In 2017, this grant from the state budget for the Social Insurance Fund will amount to PLN 46.7 billion. Also for the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, the government of Law and Justice secured the amount of PLN 17 924 million to be transferred from the budget to the KRUS. It should be commended to the government that this broad-based budget meets the budgetary convergence criteria imposed by the European Commission. The public deficit for gross domestic product is planned below 3% and is set at 2.9% gross domestic product. Prime Minister! Prime Minister! Looking at the state budget submitted to the High House for 2017 only through the narrow prism of social and family policy, I highly appreciate that it is a budget for Poland and Poles. He shows that the Polish state ruled by you has ceased to function theoretically and social justice is restored, that this country has a prime minister who has the courage to claim the poorest and weakest citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[He's not afraid of the president.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u106	Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u107	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! As if you would listen and take seriously what you have said, Poland has only started with the PiS governments and since Mrs Beata Szydło became Prime Minister. [[Applause]] [[I'm gonna start applauding you.]] You said that the government secured PLN 23 billion for Polish families. He hasn't secured anything yet, he's just gonna take the loan, borrow it, just like the Prime Minister said in his internal meeting with the activists of Law and Justice. From the program that you're doing with your flagship program, you've ruled out, it's got to be remembered, three million children and 1800 thousand. families. Three times in the debate between Prime Minister Kopacz and the future Prime Minister Szydło, Mrs Szydło said that it would be 500 PLN per child. It's not a big success, it's one big scam of yours, and that's what you have to say. [[Applause]] And now in a few words, literally in a few words I will refer to the privatisation directions of the State Treasury's assets in 2017. I say in a few, because in fact the documents you presented, the budget shows that you are finishing privatisation and making it proud, making it a great virtue that you are ending privatisation. It is hard to imagine that Adam Hofman's colleagues or Minister Jackiewicz's private sector would find a job. [[But Gronkiewicz-Waltz will.]] So, of course, state control over the companies needs to be maintained. It is quite interesting, however, how you punish your fallen parliamentarians, because the great punishment for the former Mr Rogacki turned out to be that he could not run for Sejm elections, but found work in a company of the Treasury... [[Two.]] ...for five. - six times as much pay as a parliamentarian has. So one can say that it is worth attacking President Kaczyński. It is quite cost-effective and has a specific financial dimension. In the state budget you write, there is a statement that the impact on the conduct of the property transformation process in 2017 will be among others. by the professionalization of HR. You can just say that a horse would laugh if it weren't for the fact that some horses aren't laughing under your rule. There are various things you can say about previous government teams, but it has come to pass that you have changed the company statutes, that you have changed the law only so that all those who do not meet the formal requirements can sit on the boards of these companies. I know, recently a specialist, an outstanding specialist in forks, the Deputy Minister of National Defence, mentioned a list of people who sat in different places in the previous term, but did any of us change the company's statute or wherever an incompetent person appeared without fulfilling formal requirements? It is only you who have such activists, such people that you must change the rules under them, that you must change the law under them, because in normal reality, in normal competition proceedings, with normal requirements, they could not be employed in a company of the Treasury. It'll be a year before your government passes. The value of companies of the Treasury on the stock exchange, according to one of economic portals, decreased by 39 billion PLN. This is the result of a good change in the companies of the Treasury. PGNiG - minus 10 billion, PGE - minus 5 billion, PKO BP - minus 3.4 billion - is such a curiosity, our former chairman of the Public Finance Commission is on the board of this company - PZU - minus 8 billion. That's 39 billion in total. I hope that when the current President - because it is probably such a fashion, because President Jasiński went to the company of the Treasury, and Jaworski - will go to the company of the Treasury, he will do better than Mr Jaworski, because as we can see, PZU has lost about PLN 8 billion at the moment. As I said, you can see reason to be proud of the fact that you are holding back privatisation, but after all, privatisation funds go to 5% for the Reprivatisation Fund and, minus 5% for privatisation. 40% on the Demographic Reserve Fund. You are interested in reprivatization only in the context of this verification commission you want to introduce. And you're not really interested in the demographic fund either, because it's a question of the future, and you're not interested in the future, you're more interested in the past, you're more interested in the past. Not only are you holding back the privatisation, you're still joining nationalization, and that's what's affecting the actions of the PZU, which you want to involve, you're engaging in nationalization. So our assessment is as negative as possible. We believe that this is a completely wrong approach - the completion of privatisation, the cessation of privatisation and nationalisation. Nationalization was already, many years ago, very badly ended for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15. I'd like to ask you for another speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer in particular to the government draft law on so-called. Special arrangements for implementing the Budget Act for 2017, print No 917, which is not so much a draft legislative act for the implementation of the State budget as a tool striking the citizen, hitting the worker. The bill proposes, among others, freezing the social benefit fund for workers, teachers, public universities, pensioners and uniformed services. Thus, in the explanatory memorandum of the bill we read: freezing the social fund in entities operating, among others. in the form of budgetary units - saves around 95 million; freezes the base for the calculation of the write-down to the social fund for teachers - saves around 75 million; freezes the basis for the write-down for public university employees - saves around 95 million; savings for freezing the social fund for pensioners and pensioners of uniform services, MSW and MS - about 12 million. According to this statement, only budget workers will be robbed of about PLN 280 million this year. It should be stressed that millions of other workers will also be lost at the next freezing of the social fund, as the social fund is mandatoryly created in public sector entities, but it is also created in private sector workplaces. The basic write-down to the Fund in 2017 will again amount to PLN 1093, 93 per employee, i.e. as much as in 2011. If not for freezing, in 2016 the write-down to the Social Fund would amount to PLN 1308, 90. For 2017 data are not yet available, because they are announced in February, but a write-off due from the average salary in the national economy according to the original provision of the Act would be about PLN 1350. The difference between what is going to be and what should be is about 250 PLN. 250 zł times several million people is the amount that will not reach employees, a huge amount. And as you know, the funds from the Social Fund are directed to the most deprived and granted to workers according to their living, family, and material situation, to workers and their families with the lowest incomes. The rulers have been doing this for the sixth year in a row since 2011, four times the Civic Platform with PSL, the second year in a row is doing it by Law and Justice. The question is on the lips: What is the difference in this matter? Something that was supposed to be an exception has become the norm, something that was supposed to be a one-time thing becomes a habit. At the expense of the weakest, you're tightening the state budget. Why don't you put your budget together at the expense of savings on administration, red tape, agencies and inspections, which are a whole bunch of them? Plus, in the bill... [[The richest.]] ...save, among others. for the activities of support centres for people with mental disorders - savings are PLN 132 million and - for the compensation fund related to the Hunting Law - PLN 55 million. Records of laws that go through public consultations and then through the legislative process are amended by one law, this one. The title of the draft law does not reflect the provisions contained therein, should be read e.g.: Act deregulating pro-social and pro-working solutions to certain laws or laws on the non-justifiability of previously introduced provisions of laws or simply a robbery law. With regard to the proposal for a further freezing of the write-off to the social fund, it must be stated that Law and Justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] continues de facto policy of the previous coalition, PO and PSL. It introduces regulations that are detrimental to the most vulnerable workers in the material situation. This state of affairs clearly conflicts with the announcements of pro-social and pro-family policies. Therefore, in the name of your good change, your slogans concerning social justice, family policy and taking care of the poorest, I call for the freezing of the social fund at last. I appeal mainly to the members of the PiS about a solidarity pedigree - do it. On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I request that both draft laws be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u110	Thank you very much. Please speak on behalf of the Club Modern Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u111	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Almost a year ago, at the beginning of November, from this speaker in the public debate I said straight: we keep our fingers crossed for the economic success of PiS, because these successes will be real benefits for Poles. Today, after a year, instead of crossing our fingers, everyone grabs their heads, seeing how many economic problems come to Poland. The problem with Poland is that PiS, before he started ruling, did not learn to count. During the last year, PiS broke Poland's record in the amount of taxes introduced and planned. You've introduced a tax on bank clients. Next year, each Pole will pay from 80 to 100 PLN of your tax in increased fees for handling his account or payment card. Jarosław Kaczyński doesn't have a bank account, so of course he won't pay. Every now and then there's information that you want to introduce taxes for car owners. They're supposed to pay for it by car owners who are over 10 years old, that's over 70%. all drivers. Jarosław Kaczyński doesn't have a car, so he won't pay. Despite the declaration in the campaign, you have maintained once again the increased VAT rate. This means an average of PLN 105 more for every citizen. You tried to introduce a store tax, and really our purchases. Fortunately, you have prepared this law so inefficiently that it has been blocked by the European Commission for at least a year. This is just the beginning of a long list of new taxes introduced by the PiS. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is supposed to want a care tax. The Ministry of Environment wants to raise water bills for Poles. You will introduce a tax on the propaganda of the PiS on radio and television. Each family will pay PLN 180 for propaganda, which you call audiovisual tax. After the last year, we know one thing: If the PiS says that he's gonna give anything to anyone, the first question is who he's gonna pluck first. Ladies and gentlemen, the 60 billion deficit planned for 2017 means an increase of approximately 1.6 thousand in debt for every Polish citizen, regardless of whether he is 8 months old or 80 years old. zł. The budget you presented to the government is a budget on which few will benefit today, and all Poles will lose in a few years' time. High Izbo, summing up the amount of new and planned taxes imposed by the PiS and levied on our debt account, taxes imposed solely to buy votes, I suggest that the sum of debts incurred by the government, this ransom, which each Pole will pay for the program fantasies of the PiS, be simply called Duck. Well next year, the cost of duck for each Pole is about 1.8 thousand. zł. The cost of duck for a family with two children is over 7,000. zł, by 1 000. zł more than they'll get from the 500+ program. The cost of a duck for a single man is almost 1.9 thousand. zł. The cost of a duck for a young, childless marriage is over 3.5,000. zł. And the cost of a duck for a retired man over 75 years of age is almost 1.7 thousand. zł. Of course, apart from the duck, we will all pay several dozen more ordinary taxes - contributions to ZUS, NFZ and other charges. These are preliminary estimates. We'll update them. The Duck level, or ransom for the party's needs of PiS, will be calculated not only every year, but after each idea of introducing a new tax by PiS. PiS is known for cheating and breaking promises. This budget's gonna cost everyone. A year ago, you promised Poles you'd be Yanos. Today it turns out you're just tax robbers. [[What's with the vocabulary?]] A year ago, you made electoral promises worth over PLN 50 billion a year. You promised the Poles that the fulfillment of these promises would cost them nothing. It was one big lie. You can't do this. You bought votes for the money of Poles and today this obvious truth comes out. You admit with your own voice the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government that there is simply no money in fulfilling these promises that you are fulfilling them on credit. The best evidence is 500+ bonds. You give it to me with one hand, but you give it to me because you just don't have the money. Today, taxpayers pay more than PLN 30 billion a year, not for investments, not for social programmes, not for the development of the economy, but for the maintenance of current debt. [[What have you done?]] The Poles, of course, paid and paid for the promises of the Civic Platform government. Sadly, they will pay even more for your unrealistic promises. I remember two years ago, from this speaker, you criticized the Platform for having a record-breaking state budget. That's right, the Platform actually doubled the public debt, but you're gonna triple it at this rate. 60 billion budget deficits are a record in the history of Poland. Nobody's ever been in debt. Poles at such a rate. In 2017, you will add 4.5 thousand. zł new debt for each Polish family. Next year the public debt will exceed PLN 1 trillion. Who's gonna pay the debt? Who? You? [[The indicators are relative.]] The draft budget is proof of your extreme irresponsibleness. You didn't know how to make the planned revenue this year. Bank tax is a disaster. Trade tax - disaster. Tax sealing - an empty declaration, a fatamorgan, another misfire. [[The results are already in place.]] You have created a budget not only record in Poland's history in terms of the country's debt growth, but also based on unrealistic assumptions. At first glance, it is worn at seams. And inflation, which always drives money to the budget, is set at an unrealisticly high level - 1.3%. In the meantime, there has been a deflation in Poland for 2 years. Economic growth is fantastically high - 3.6% - while this year we reach 3%. We're all gonna lose on this budget. On behalf of Modernity, I request that both draft laws be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u112	Thank you very much. I would like to speak with Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u113	Thank you, Marshal. [[Gabrysia, hang in there.]] Prime Minister! High Izbo! No matter how many epithets, epithets and fortune tellers have died here, we're doing our job. [[Yours.]] Prime Minister, we're doing our job. [[We're in debt.]] One of the basic objectives of state policy is to improve health, to improve quality of life, to ensure universal access to basic, high-quality medical services and to organise a stable health system. State health policy in recent years needs to be revised. The problem is underfunding - especially primary health care and outpatient specialist care. Low spending on preventive care has a negative impact on children's health in particular. Much to be desired leaves the level of spending on long-term care. These restrictions are most affected by low income families, mostly large families, underprivileged families and retirement families. According to research almost every fourth person in need of health care, Polish residents experienced the expectation of a visit from two to a dozen months. In the absence of income from medical consultations, between 11% and 17% of citizens could not benefit. In the European Union, this is between 4% and 9%. According to GUS data, 1/4 people in households were not able to consult a specialist doctor for financial reasons. The worrying thing is that some families were forced to give up the necessary paid visits to specialist doctors. There are about 10% of families with three children. As far as dental doctors are concerned, there are 14% of those families. Although these indicators improved slightly between 2009 and 2015, this was not the result of improving the functioning of the state in the field of health policy, but rather of improving the material situation of some families. This is why the health system has been extremely critical of citizens. Yes, health programmes were created, but there were no instruments to implement them. These assessments can be found in the opinion of the Supreme Audit Chamber. In the last 25 years, major political and social changes have taken place, and with them the way of life and work, family and social relations have changed. Poles began to notice health problems, especially mental ones. There is a need for broad prevention programmes available in the form of therapy, treatment. The lack of staff, the malfunctioning system of specialization education - as I have repeatedly talked about during the work of the committee in previous years, and not only the committee - as well as the failing system of pre-diploma education, failing county hospitals... [[And that doesn't change!]] ...you can say: distributed, in a catastrophic situation - with such a baggage of problems the previous government left to the Law and Justice to pursue health policy. And with such baggage problems, the current health resort began to construct the state budget for 2017. According to the analysis of the draft state budget for 2017, expenditure from the state budget for health protection has increased by 8,5%. in relation to the previous year. This is about 9 billion PLN. On the other hand, taking into account the expenditure from the European health funds budget, a total of PLN 9.5 billion is planned - this represents 110% expenditure entered for this purpose in the 2016 Budget Act. In addition, the revenues of the National Health Fund will increase, as we estimate, by about PLN 70 billion. What does that say? This shows that the Government of Law and Justice intends to change this negative trend in the health protection of Poles, that in this difficult situation - distributed health services and difficult budgetary position - the government is making a huge effort to increase the expenditure on health protection, because it is the small expenditure on health protection and lack of human resources that is the main cause of most problems in this area. In relation to the 2016 Budget Act, the draft law for 2017 deserves the attention of the following expenditures, which are worth revealing: expenditure for the implementation of the project of PLN 564 million. You may be aware that many families, and above all many families, have serious restrictions on the purchase of medicines, as many as 60% of families with three children. But this is particularly true for elderly people, elderly people, pensioners over the age of 75. There this indicator is approaching 100 - they must give up for financial reasons because of the purchase of many medicines needed to maintain their health. Therefore, funding or funding from the state budget in such an area of expenditure exceeding PLN 560 million for the purchase of medicines in order to secure free medicines for seniors in 2017 - in this year it is already 125 million since 1 September - is a huge challenge, which has not yet taken place in Poland. This implementation will be monitored, and this programme, as the Ministry of Health reports, will of course be expanded. It is planned that thanks to securing the amount of PLN 564.3 million in the draft state budget for 2017 seniors' expenditure on medicines reimbursed will fall by more than 60% this year. Another issue that needs to be highlighted is expenditure for medical simulation centers of PLN 85 million. The draft budget law for 2017 ensures for the first time the complementary provision of financial support for the construction of medical simulation centres also from the state budget. Thirdly, expenditure devoted to the implementation of the health policy programme n. The programme of comprehensive protection of procreational health in Poland in the years 2016-2020 is of the amount of PLN 40 million. The year 2017 will be the first full year of operation of this programme, which was launched on 1 September 2016. The programme is aimed mainly at couples who are married or partnered, previously undiagnosed in the direction of infertility, who are having problems with their offspring. Fourthly, expenditure intended to secure the amount for tasks carried out by the medical authority on behalf of the State corresponding to the actual costs incurred and eliminating the risk of sovereign debt towards the medical authority. This never happened until 2016, never happened. Fifthly, expenditure on public health tasks amounting to PLN 79 million, as well as on preventive vaccination - the amount of PLN 161 million - is the next element of the draft state budget for 2017 in the health section, which needs to be assessed very positively. Similarly, expenditure devoted to the introduction of the ICT system in the health sector (IOWISZ) of PLN 2.6 million, etc. Finally, it is worth mentioning that in 2017 there will be a partial implementation of the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber on securing the remuneration of employees of the Ministry of Health working until the end of 2016 on order contracts. Since 2017, these agreements are planned to be converted into employment contracts. High Izbo! The draft state budget for 2017 in the health section should be assessed positively. It is also important to thank the head of the health department for its ability and congratulations on this ability to see these problems and take up challenges in order to solve them, because it is obvious that the state of health of Poles is a fundamental element of family policy - health policy is an integral part of family policy - that a healthy and educated Polish family is the best, most effective factor for economic growth. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u114	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Bożena Szydłowska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! MON gets a giant budget. The measures are around 1400 million more than this year, but the majority of these MON money unfortunately eats over, does not spend on increasing the defensive potential of the state. I stress that the budget says that for property expenditure, for property purchases, 10 billion PLN, for the payment of PLN 8.5 billion, for health care of PLN 7.5 billion, military pensions will cost PLN 6 billion. Property expenditure is investments, it is the purchase of equipment, it is the implementation of plans to modernise the Polish Armed Forces. In this position, ladies and gentlemen, funds have also been saved for the Territorial Defence Army. Will this paramilitary formation, equipped with machine guns, actually serve our country's defence capabilities, or, as the creators of this formation say, will it be a preventive measure against anti-government activities? It's supposed to be $35,000. People, 17 brigades. Their creation, endowment, maintenance will consume billions of zlotys. The next thing you know, it's multi-tasking helicopters. This scandal, a fork in reprehensible style, does not bring glory to Poland. There's supposed to be 50 helicopters, there's gonna be two - produced by Americans, not by Mielec. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] It was supposed to be 6,000. jobs, it'll be zero. We were supposed to have an offset of PLN 13 billion and more security, and we have a broken contract, a decision to buy helicopters without a tender and so far without an offset, and the French, we know, will demand compensation. You said it was wrong, that you would do well to eliminate what was wrong. It's a powerful populist password, ladies and gentlemen, it's alive. They were even used by the main character of the series Rancho, president of the Polish Party of Honesty, because he already knows that it brings electoral success, but the sovereign loses faith. [[Applause]] I personally look at the government's ambitious plans with a large reserve. They're not real. Rather, it is a list of godly wishes, and this is evidenced by an example of budget implementation for the first half of the year. Under the heading: Purchase of equipment in the MON budget, with 7 billion PLN for this year, spent 1.5 billion PLN for the first half of the year and none of the planned programmes were implemented. Analysts predict that the MON budget will not be implemented. But don't worry, the government will spend the money. He's gonna spend on the show plus, and he's gonna buy coal for the rest. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u116	Before the next Member comes, I am announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 mins 34 hours 14 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider items 2 and 3 of the agenda. Please take the floor of Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. In that case, I would like to ask Mrs Monica Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u117	When, in the previous budget prepared by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL, the infrastructure issues were intact and the programmes left behind, it was a good idea that the investments would be carried out. But that's the end of optimism, 'cause it just ended on the forecast. We're out of action. And this lack of action will unfortunately translate into further problems and further years. Construction companies are announcing group redundancies, because your Minister Adamczyk's policy leads to nothing but an end to executive capacity. It's hard and can't be rebuilt right away. Just look at the GUS data. The total slowing down of tenders in 2016 is a homicide for construction companies and it will translate into the following years. The lack of state investment is a lack of private investment, it is an economic brake and revenue to the budget. You chose the wrong way in order perhaps to accumulate tenders at one time, hoping that this will bring low prices, because as a result of this action will cause a price war, of course those who will remain on the market. At the beginning of his office, the minister said that in Poland roads are built too slowly and too expensive, and he repeats it all the time like a mantra. The Minister had a year, and he decided not to build roads at all, and so did the railways and apartments, but about it in a moment, because first I will refer to airports and LOT itself. I will remind you that in Poland there are 12 airports, i.e. almost every region. You have hired the most expensive presidents who offer a vision of the construction of the central airport between Łódź and Warsaw for about PLN 30 billion, and are to be built by 2023, but also the purchase of a new fleet for not knowing how much. So the presidents have visions, the government does nothing, and there's a trade union war going on in the background. As far as roads are concerned, the year passes under the slogan of the General Director of National Roads and Motorways, because no one wants to be a director and there is no surprise, because you are killing the construction industry after a year by throwing a paw in the form of mini-freight. Maybe Minister Adamczyk didn't get money from the Minister of Finance for tenders, but if so, we have to talk about it and fight for money for infrastructure together, because there is something to do, because before us there is a programme to build national roads and motorways, because there are no more important things in infrastructure than building. This should not be the work you do, which is to work on increases in mandates or higher fees for carrying out technical tests of vehicles, i.e. how to take more money from Poles' wallet. We're after a year of not building anything, nothing of yours. It is also a year of failed negotiations with Russia on the limits of permits, it is also a year of fighting for minimum wages in road transport. Nor do government colleagues from the Minister Adamczyk help, insulting the European Commission by fighting the Venice Commission or recently humiliating the French. It will be without us in a moment, because no one will want to talk to Poland about important issues for the transport industry. The next year is going to be, unfortunately, in a similar tone, just the same. When it comes to the railroad, when a couple goes to a whistle in the road infrastructure, the railroad could make up for something. But no - more presidents, more boards, no idea and no program, no tenders. The station program, I guess, isn't moved either. This includes the lack of a concept of buying rolling stock, which also translates into problems in railway facilities and increasingly poor financial results of companies. The failure to make rail investments already reaches several hundred million, and let me remind you that in the new perspective, the Platform and PSL government has negotiated very large measures, i.e. PLN 67 billion. It's like getting all this nothing done in the rail industry to one denominator -- a ticking bomb. As far as housing is concerned, good solutions - functioning, yielding tangible results and results - you have replaced the announcement. They will announce a housing+, which will not have any effect, will not reduce housing hunger, but may lead to a disruption of the development market, independent of the state budget, but bringing money to the budget. Let me just remind you that you've extinguished the program, the residence for the young, which replaced the family program on your own, and you've just replaced it with an announcement. I will also remind you that in Poland over 1180 thousand have been built in the last 8 years. apartments, of which 250,000. was created as part of the MdM and the family on its own, and living+ is according to your promise to build 6,000. housing by 2018, in addition to places that will become a trap for young people, because they will reduce their mobility and place them where there will not necessarily be demand for such housing, for example due to the development market or the labour market. Dear rulers, it is wrong to assume that the worse, the better. It would be best if, from the moment - and the year 2017 - you start to catch up on 2016 losses and the head of the infrastructure department will finally start implementing the road and rail construction programmes prepared by the government of the Platform and PSL to make productive use of the large negotiated funds from the 2014-2020 hand, of course with national funds. I would like to remind you that between 2007 and 2015 we put 897 km of motorways, 1180 km of express roads and 952 km of bypasses and modernized national roads into service. Time, ladies and gentlemen, continue the construction of Poland. Prime Minister! Minister of Development and Finance! I wish you similar building achievements - such as the Platform and PSL government did, because so far in infrastructure, stagnation, lack of life, some duration only. Well, maybe even a loud opening prepared and built by the predecessors of investments, such as the motorway near Łódź. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u118	You're welcome. Now late Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u119	I'm so sorry I'm late. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I want to focus on the assessment of the budgetary part that includes agriculture, rural development and agricultural markets. Of course, I am convinced that the economic situation of the village depends not only on the transfer of budget appropriations dedicated to the villagers or farmers. After all, the 500+ programme implemented by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło is a programme that in the amount of PLN 11 billion a year goes to families living in the countryside. Probably a similar mechanism will also work with the housing programme. With great hope we are analysing - the Committee on Agriculture has already been involved - the programme associated with your name, the Law and Justice Programme, which is largely about areas outside the cities, concerns territorial and social development. There are a number of provisions that are very beneficial for the countryside, but focusing on sections 32, 33 and 35 of the budget, I want to provide very concrete and objective data. Expenditure on agriculture, rural development and agricultural markets increases year to year from PLN 8400 million to PLN 9700 million, an increase of 15.5%. We maintain practical support for the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund at the current level. Total expenditure on agriculture, rural development and agricultural markets and the Social Insurance Fund increases year to year by over PLN 1 billion - from PLN 26.6 billion to PLN 27.6 billion. The budget shall secure all the needs of the government institutions supporting agriculture and the means to carry out their tasks, secure the means for the smooth and unstricken functioning of those institutions. National Chemical and Agricultural Station, Central Centre for Plant Variety Research in Słupia Wielki, National Centre for Animal Breeding, Veterinary Inspection, so important in connection with ASF disease, State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection, Agricultural Advisory Centre in Brwinów, Voivodship Agricultural Advisory Centres in each voivodship are provided with means for operation. Indeed, we are increasing resources in some positions. I'll replace it here. an increase in funds for the education and improvement of agricultural teachers by 62.5% , the increase in R &amp; D resources from 52 million to 80 million, i.e. increase compared to 2016 appropriations by 54%. This shows that not only simple transfers of funds are being carried out to ensure the functioning of the institution, but also what constitutes the clou of Polish development in the coming years, which is enshrined in the programmes of the Government of Law and Justice, i.e. the focus on research, innovation, development through science also in the budget for which the Minister of Agriculture is responsible. Finally, the huge amount, given the practice that Prime Minister Morawiecki has mentioned in his speech, concerns a change in the system for rescuing farmers in the event of natural disasters, which are becoming more and more likely to result from climate change. Every year we are experiencing either dreaming or drought or heavy rains, in some parts of Poland floods, etc., etc. State aid so far is not well assessed by farmers. She's an accident, often lack of budget resources. I'm talking about years. The system for estimating these losses is highly imprecise and in many cases even pathological. Therefore, it is necessary to go to your senses and based on the experiences of others who have climate change may even be more annoying than in us, e.g. The United States should introduce an insurance scheme with budget support to a level that will allow farmers to benefit from the scheme without excessive burden. This system is created in front of our eyes. Ladies and gentlemen, so far in the next years we have spent about PLN 200 million on budget support each year, as well as our predecessors. In 2017, this amount is growing several times. There will be PLN 917 million to support the agricultural and animal insurance system. This is an increase over 4.5 times. I'm afraid there might be a shortage of willing farmers for this insurance. It is therefore also necessary to carry out a certain explanatory action, but it is a historic change concerning the protection of Polish farmers from disasters that affect agricultural production in a unique and often way. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this budget is a historical budget for another reason. So far we have had such a narrative of a party which said that it represents an agricultural environment, represents farmers - I am talking about the Polish People's Party - according to which... [[Voice from the O.R.: She's not in the O.R.]] ...this small party fights this stronger coalitionist to win the money for the Polish village, squeezing Brussels sprouts, waving swords. For the last 8 years this translation of the Polish People's Party was such: this liberal Platform does not want to give money to rural areas and only thanks to the determination of politicians of the Polish People's Party whatever influences this village. How Rejtan shuffled that shirt and waved those swords. They used to do it with the SLD. It turns out, please, that the first year when Law and Justice creates its own budget, when there is no PSL, the budget provides funds for the functioning of all institutions that are engaged in agriculture, provides funds for EU co-financing, provides a huge increase in insurance funds, i.e. that responsibility for agriculture does not have to be attributed only to some usurper who says that only his presence in the governing coalition can defend the interests of the village. I am very happy, it is a reason for me to be proud that Law and Justice, as a national party, also took responsibility for Polish agriculture, as a result of which it is, among others. This budget. It's good for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u120	I'd like to ask you for another speech. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Financial expenditure on higher education and science are very important for the civilization and socio-economic development of Poland. The quantitative development of higher education, including research and teaching infrastructure, has been observed in recent years thanks to, inter alia, measures from the European Union should be accompanied to a greater extent by positive qualitative changes. The proportions of the number of students in fixed and permanent studies and in different fields of study should be closely adapted to the needs of the economy, and the study programmes and forms of teaching must keep pace with world trends so that Polish universities can be ranked in the world's rankings at a more worthy place. The strategy of reform of higher education and science, which was prepared by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education under the guidance of Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, is set up by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. the creation of new research universities, which are to be the engine of Poland in the world scientific race, and the introduction of an alternative path of obtaining a doctoral degree. Two new agendas are planned: the National Institute of Technology to deal with the transfer of knowledge to the economy and the academic exchange agenda to deal with international scientific policy. The aim of the new reform strategy is to successfully increase the R &amp; D co-financing rate from the current level of 0.87% GDP to more than 1% in order to reach the EU average currently of 1.91% GDP. The Lisbon Strategy envisages a 3% share of R &amp; D expenditure for EU countries. The draft budget law for 2017 envisages expenditure under heading 803: Higher education as part of expenditure from the state budget in nine budgetary parts and expenditure from the budget of European funds in three budgetary parts. These expenditures are included in the budgets of eight ministries amounting to a total of 15 979 491 000. These expenditures are almost PLN 200 million higher than the corresponding expenditures in the 2016 Budget Act. In this amount, approximately 13 billion are expenditure planned in the field of teaching activities in civil public universities, military universities, public service institutions and six universities run by churches and religious associations. The amount of PLN 1.8 billion was planned for material aid for students and PhD students, including about 300 million for non-public universities. In the area of property expenditure for investments in the heading: Higher education is planned for the amount of more than PLN 400 million. The second important part of the budget from which the funding is earmarked for R &amp; D is part of 28: Science. As announced by the Minister of Science and Higher Education, Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, the support for the partnership between science and business and the implementation of the social responsibility of science are elements of the plan for systemic changes to science and higher education. The Ministry's strategy is to respond to development challenges. Entrepreneurs are also expected to cooperate more effectively with the world of science. The Ministry envisages a progressive increase in R &amp; D expenditure to reach 1.7% in 2020 GDP. An important event in the field of science and higher education is planned for 2017 National Science Congress, which will take place in September in Krakow. The draft budget law for 2017 plans to spend nearly PLN 8.5 billion on science. The largest amount is planned in Part 28: Science, i.e. 7 404 530 000, including about 6 billion from the state budget and nearly 1400 million from the European Union budget. 18 650 thousand are planned under the Polish Science and Technology Fund. PLN, and under heading 730: Science in other parts of the budget is planned for the amount of nearly PLN 92 million, including for the Polish Academy of Sciences over PLN 81 million, and for the activities of the Polish Space Agency the amount of more than PLN 10 million is planned. Compared to the corresponding amount from the 2016 Budget Act, the expenditure on science increases by over PLN 162 million in the 2017 Budget Act, which represents a nominal increase of 2%. The draft Budget Act for 2017 plans an amount of nearly 3 billion to finance the statutory and investment activities of scientific entities. More than PLN 40 million was provided to finance science-promoting activities. Nearly PLN 462 million is planned to finance scientific cooperation abroad. The National Centre for Research and Development set up at the initiative of the Government of Law and Justice on 1 July 2007 to carry out research in the field of scientific, scientific and technological policy and innovative state will have in 2017 funds of PLN 2413 million. For the activities of the National Science Centre established to support research activities in the field of basic research, the amount of PLN 1193 million was secured in the 2017 budget, of which PLN 1146 million is a targeted grant for the financing of basic research. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Poland's share of world science production is at 1% and is higher than the percentage of the world's economic income. It's worse in the world's quoting pool, that's the indicator. 0,5% , in obtaining an ISO 9000 licence and filing patent applications by residents - at 0.3%, as well as in the share of the global pool so-called. Triads of patents - this level is also lower. I am convinced that these first nominal increases in science spending in the 2017 budget after the adoption of the strategy for reform of higher education and science will grow faster in future budgets in order to get closer to science spending similar to those in OECD countries. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u122	Next question, please, Mr. Artur Gierada, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The Prime Minister said at first that it was the first author's draft budget of the Government of Law and Justice, and we will agree with that, but it must be said that it is probably the best indication of this budget that the minister who prepared it, as a reward, was dismissed. I am to talk about education, about money for education in this budget, but I would like to address the words of the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister really capable of bragging about these things and saying that the Law and Justice are fulfilling their promises? 500+ I understand, you're doing everything you can to make sure that the money is actually there, but I think it's a little overkill to talk about the program today, Mr. Prime Minister, because according to you, you're going to be building now, including piloting, which is basically going to last the entire term, 3,000. Apartments, no, 6,000. apartments, that's 2,000. apartments per year. If you do not retreat from the legacy of Lech Kaczyński, whose words were also quoted today, Mr Lech Kaczyński promised 3 billion apartments on your behalf. [[Millions.]] Three million, sorry, three million apartments. Given the three million apartments and the pace at which you want to keep that promise, it's actually going to take you 1,500 years. [[Oh, dear, we can't take that much.]] That's for sure, the Poles can't stand it either. When it comes to medicines for seniors, for people over 75, you said they would be free, but you know very well that the amount you put in the budget is eight times lower than the money that seniors, people over 75, actually spend on drugs today. Besides, with these seniors over 75 years old, it is a bit like with this 500 PLN per child. But back to the education budget. Minister Zalewska spoke about the fact that middle school is good, but it needs to be built with money. Today, in this budget, you don't build education with money. As for kindergarten, because education begins here, the Prime Minister spoke in an exposé, and I quote: We will increase the number of kindergartens and our goal is to make them free of charge. This is indeed the announcement of the continuation of the Civic Platform's policy, which has been funding local governments in terms of kindergartens since 2013. But what have you done in this budget? You even took out 352 million, you cut the money pool for kindergarten by 352 million compared to the original version you assumed and presented to us in August. When it comes to education subsidies, you also say that you will kindly leave it on the same level, graciously because there will be fewer children who have now gone to school as six-year-olds, and that is why this money, if you leave it, will be more. [[Yes.]] But you forget that the costs are the same, and on the other hand, the school year is not the financial year. And in fact, since September children will go - I hope they will go, today they are six-year-olds - at the age of 7, but also six-year-olds, unless you want to discourage them as you have done so far, hence much more money for the Elbanowski Foundation. But if you don't, you're gonna have a problem. You're talking about increasing the teacher's salary. The increase in salary is probably too much said, because it is from 35 PLN to 63, depending of course on the degree of promotion, so it is 1 to 1, given inflation, an increase of 1.3. Experts say that when it comes to this subsidy that you leave at this level, you are introducing a higher 5 million, that local governments are short of 540 million in order to implement this demand for an increase of 1.3. So will teachers be fired or not? 'Cause in a minute, you're gonna say, "We're not the ones who are slowing down, they're slowing down." But today you don't give them money for it. In conclusion, I will quote one more quote here, just the opinion of the teachers, the trade union, the solidarity: the failure to provide calculations in this respect - it is precisely the question of a subsidy - we consider a very irresponsible and unprofessional failure, having misconceptions in the explanatory memorandum to the submitted project. Prime Minister, speaking in favour of Solidarity, I will say that this is a frivolous and unprofessional budget. That's not what the opposition is saying today, that's what your political background has been saying until recently. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u124	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First, I'm gonna say that I'm gonna defy a little bit of what my previous speaker said, but I'm gonna start with what I've prepared for myself. Such things will be common, as their youth hide. And you can't do that without the money. So in the 2017 budget there are planned expenditures on education and upbringing in the total amount of over PLN 44 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover the operation of primary schools, secondary schools and upper secondary schools. They shall ensure that public schools and educational establishments, public and non-public schools and institutions run by legal persons other than local government units and natural persons carry out their tasks. It also includes the financing of artistic, agricultural and forestry schools. These measures provide training and pedagogical supervision of schools and provide material assistance to pupils and educate and prepare young people at risk of social exclusion, and finance international exchanges of children and young people. From 1 September 2016, a six-year-old no longer has to go to school. This could therefore result in expenditure being reduced by more than PLN 1.4 billion, but this was not done due to the planned change in funding for six-year-olds and the planned organisational changes in education from 1 September 2017. In the draft budget law presented for 2017, expenditure in heading 801: Education and education is planned in the amount of PLN 1836 million and in section 854: Educational education - in the amount of PLN 110 million. These are resources for the implementation of tasks by various departments, including: by the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, as well as by voivodships. As part of the total subsidy planned for 2017 for local government units, an educational part of 41 909 500 000 was planned. zł. It is 1% higher than the amount set out in the 2016 Budget Act. It takes into account the effects of the increase in teachers' salaries by 1.3% from 1 January 2017. It also includes the transfer of funds to the budgetary section, which is the responsibility of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, in connection with the transfer by local government units, by agreement, of agricultural schools to run by the Minister for Agriculture. According to the draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Act for 2017, the local government unit is entitled to increase the educational part of the general subsidy if false data have been transferred to the educational information system or are given in the report and the local government unit received the educational part of the general subsidy of less than the amount due. The implementation of the amount of the educational subsidy may therefore change within a year. Part 83: Special provisions also provide for measures relating to expenditure on education. These are funds for the professional promotion of teachers, funds for scholarships of the President of the Council of Ministers for specially gifted students, funds for equalisation of educational opportunities, funds for nutrition, funds for increasing the availability of pre-school education. A total amount of PLN 264 million, covering different parts and operational programmes, has been planned as part of European expenditure on education and education. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the funds for education and education planned in the 2017 budget, in all its departments and chapters, ensure the implementation of the programme announced by the Law and Justice, which is consistently implemented by the Ministry of National Education, by Minister Anna Zalewska, a programme covering the implementation of the school obligation from the age of 7 in the 8-year primary and secondary schools, high schools, technicians and vocational schools. In this part it is a reasonable and optimal budget, good for teachers and educational workers, good for local governments - the best possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u126	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Health with a new minister who seemed to be well prepared for this role, because we know his previous experience, and the situation he found was also known to him... According to the promises, he was also well prepared, like the entire government, to carry out what he found and to make changes. And here's what we got? One of the first meetings of the Health Committee, December last year. It is about the Minister's words, who raises reservations about the oncology package and is very concerned that the service providers are unfortunately losing on it. The Minister had already forgotten at the beginning that all we should do was serve primarily to the patient and, in no case, to enrich further institutions. Those were the first words, and the first actions... One of the first steps of the Minister of Health was to pass on a record high grant to the Chief Medical Chamber and District Chambers, the amount of PLN 16 million. Let me just remind you that the previous annual amounts of these grants were in the order of PLN 2.7 million. The next step, with one pull, the Minister completed the government's in vitro refund scheme, which has so far resulted in over 5,000 births. children. One short decision took hope from hundreds of parents who were waiting for such a child. And here's another topic: the idea of shortening the queues. The slogan was strong in every pre-election statement. Meanwhile, a year goes by and we have a way of reducing them. Because there is great concern about the changes that have been made, the introduction of new care for the patient. And in fact, out of all these plans... It is a belief that putting the patient under extended care for the doctor of the POZ is intended only to block his access to specialized care. That's your way of reducing the queues. The next announcements and plans of the Minister of Health are another revolution. Their job is to destroy everything that's happened so far. Old institutions want to replace new institutions, change one payer to several other payers. He wants to go back to central control of the money stream. Then long, long, long nothing and only in the end is the thought of the patient and his problems. Minister, we ask you to give a precise presentation of the cost of all these planned changes. We want to know a detailed description of this plan, because you have launched a revolution on almost every front, but this place, this ministry, must function differently. Here we count on concern, empathy and responsibility for every step, because your and our responsibility includes the health and life of every citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u128	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Barbara Bubula, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The state budget for 2017 is not only a pro-family budget and supports economic development and a budget of safe life in Poland, but it is also a budget of culture. Some time ago in Warsaw, on the stairs of the Palace of Culture, the gift accompanied by the Soviet notabene, a group of artists shouted hostile: "We will not give you the culture and the appropriate inscriptions are on the appropriate banner. I'm thinking about how wrong those wretched protesters were. Nobody took anything from them. Culture is ours, shared, is the common good of all Poles, if it is a culture that strives for the ideal of truth, good and beautiful. This is also demonstrated by the amount and distribution of budgetary resources, which are also the good of common citizens from a common holding and common taxes. Reading the draft state budget for 2017 shows how untrue and absurd the allegations of an anti-cultural or creative or artistic policy of Law and Justice are. The total expenditure of the state budget on culture provided for in the part of the budget, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, and a considerable amount of funds for culture in other ministries and institutions of the State are expected to amount to PLN 4 billion next year, by more than PLN 200 million more than in the current year. This represents just over 1% all State expenditure in the budget. By this level, at least 1% For years the artistic environments in our country and this 1% Next year's budget is. Cultural expenditure had to be distributed wisely to achieve several important social, national and national objectives. The preservation of heritage, including the protection of monuments, buildings and objects of material culture, is of course one of such important objectives. It is also important to educate new generations of artists, hence the huge part devoted to artistic education. It is extremely important to promote current cultural life, participation in culture through participation in exhibitions, performances or the use of libraries, reading books. It is also important to support artists to create new works of literature, theatre, film or music. And what is this, ladies and gentlemen, in numbers? More than PLN 970 million will be spent on education of children and young people in artistic schools, where 16 thousand will be educated. students, 660 million PLN will be spent, 200 million will go to the theatres, 770 million - to the activities of museums. The galleries and artistic exhibition offices will be able to count on nearly PLN 250 million, and the protection of monuments will be allocated to the Polish state by nearly 140 million plus 30 million to the protection of the monuments of Krakow, which were left in this year's height in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic. Libraries are a separate expense of PLN 100 million. Individual cultural institutions, whose founding authority is the Ministry of Culture, are provided from the budget, i.e. from taxes of all Poles, usually more funds than in the previous year, e.g. The Teatr Wielki - National Opera in Warsaw will receive PLN 83 million, and the Kraków Old Theatre - close to PLN 18 million. With this money, even premieres will be financed, e.g. Tchaikovsky's Swan Lake, it's at the opera, and Wyspiański's Wedding directed by Jan Klata at the Old Theatre. Let us notabene already prepare for controversy in the latter case. But someone screamed under the palace of culture: "We will not give you the culture." Still PLN 6 million is included in the budget for the activities of the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding, although many people expected this institution to be liquidated by the Government of Law and Justice. It is worth mentioning, however, that this centre undertook to examine next year one of the shamefully white spots in history, i.e. the genocide of Poles made by Stalin in 1937 on the lands taken from the Republic of Poland. There are also such good news as the construction of the Museum of Józef Piłsudski in Sulejówek planned for 2 years - the amount of more than 115 million next year - and the first serious expenditure on the Museum of Polish History in Warsaw - 77 million. It deserves to be noticed as much as PLN 57 million for the program of development of reading. May this be a good result, because Poles, or nation, who survived the destruction, apart from, of course, faith in God, mainly thanks to great poetry and literature, unfortunately today fell into book illiteracy. More interesting ministerial programs include a competition for feature film scenarios in the field of Polish history, which is to be continued next year. The State budget for cultural purposes also provides for the allocation of EU funds for many interesting projects submitted from different parts of the country. I will mention only two: for the renovation of the cathedral in Pelplin there will be nearly PLN 18 million, and for the basilica of Dominicans in Lublin - almost 13 million. That's what it looks like, High Seym, in a telegraph short four-billion-dollar culture budget for the next year. How much of this money will be spent on a culture that seeks the ideal of good, truth and beauty? Let us believe that more and more, because this is the essence of culture, not the manifestation that someone will not give to someone any culture. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u130	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Analysis of the draft state budget in parts: Social assistance and the Family indicate huge differences in the level of security of tasks for 2017. More than PLN 23 billion was provided for the flagship programme, the 500+ family. This is the only position in this budget section so well secured. Unfortunately, in the remaining parts, budget expenditure for 2017 is low or very low compared to needs. But there's also a long list of criticisms at the "500+" programme. All I'm gonna do is mention the child abuse of single mothers. A rigid income criterion is a very difficult bar for single mothers. Even a penny of income per person deprives a single mother of an allowance for the first child, but there is a proven principle of a penny for the first child. Just want to use it. Today, I would like to draw attention to the serious financial shortcomings in the draft budget for helping children, the elderly and the disabled. The 500+ programme did not reduce the number of children in children's homes, foster families or children in emergency care and waiting for adoption. However, the government believes that such facilities are no longer needed, because how do we explain the decision not to finance the adoption centre in Jelenia Góra, the best adoption facility in Lower Silesia, which has been operating continuously for 40 years? Another issue is the lack of sufficient resources for the activities of district teams. Disability rulings. This year already in June there was a shortage of money for this purpose in the powiats. There was a lot of chaos. This year's situation should not be repeated. However, in the 2017 budget, the amount of expenditure for this purpose is close to the amount of this year. What does that mean? Perhaps the money will last until August. Another painful problem is very little money for social rehabilitation. How can one say, and we hear this often, about improving the situation of older people and disabled people, when funding for these people is limited at the same time? Many counties have already run out of money for subsidies for auxiliary and orthopaedic measures, financed in part from the NFZ, and it is only October. What's gonna happen by the end of the year? PFRON significantly reduced funding for social rehabilitation. Money for WTZs is insufficient, so new facilities, although they are very needed, do not arise. Parents of disabled children have no chance of a place for children. There's almost no way to eliminate the architectural barriers to money. For rehabilitation tournaments for people with disabilities, they are not at all available. I ask on behalf of the residents of social services houses accepted on the old rules: Why was the funding of these institutions reduced by nearly PLN 60 million? It's very poor in these houses. He's saving himself on everything. There's no free resources there. Another question about helping with nutrition. The budget left the amount from previous years - PLN 350 million, and in 2015 PiS Members strongly criticised that this money was not enough. Now will this amount solve the eating problems? It is best to pretend that there are no feeding problems, because how else can you evaluate the withdrawal of 30 million PLN from the grant budget for the funding of dairy bars? Milk bars are a big help for the lower situation of Poles. Why does the government want to eliminate dairy bars that have existed in Poland for 150 years? It's against the Poles. I am sorry to say that this budget will make things worse for many elderly, disabled and sick people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u132	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Bogdan Rzonca, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u133	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Membership! On behalf of the Law and Justice, I refer to three parts of the budget, namely the 18th part - in the field of construction, 26. - as regards communications and 39. - in the field of transport. With regard to construction, spatial planning and housing, we have very good information here, namely the revenue of the state budget for this purpose will amount to over PLN 86 million and the expenditure will amount to more than PLN 2083 million. This is 124% in relation to expenditure last year. State budget expenditure is planned for, and here is a remark, because you sow ferment, that there is no funds for completion of important programmes, apartments for young people - that is 746 million, are expenditure for completing the programme - it's PLN 319 million, it's a national housing program. It hurts you the most. We have a comprehensive national housing program that will include... [[Applause]] [[1,500 years.]] That's right, give it up, 'cause they're afraid of it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are creating a comprehensive national housing program, which will be very well received, is already very well received by experts, and for this purpose is dedicated money, so far 200 million PLN. But in this comprehensive housing program, of course, we're not just talking about the housing+ programme, if you'd like, we're talking about social housing, social housing. And here will be state aid, which wasn't there in your day, will be state aid. Ladies and gentlemen, guarantee bonuses will also be refunded, there is the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund and, of course, the purchase of interest on housing loans, that is history It's from the '90s. Ladies and gentlemen, there are also expenditures on projects from the European Union of 653% About what's been going on so far. 653%. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on with major important programmes, and this is the Operational Programme - Knowledge, education, development, Operational Programme - Digital Poland, the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area and the Operational Programme - Technical assistance. The beneficiaries of these programmes will in particular be the Office of Geodesy and Cartography and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. There hasn't been that kind of money so far for this part of the budget. [[Where's the money coming from?]] Part 26: Communication. Here we have designed revenue of 10,000. PLN, while expenses - more than 7 million PLN. These are the funds that will be used to finance letters that are not paid. We all know what's going on. And I'm moving on to section 39, which is transport. Here I ask the opposition to pay attention, because a whole series of unbelievable lies are falling down. Namely in section 39.: Transport for 2017 the government plans to earn revenue of PLN 142 million, but of course the most important are the revenues that flow from the Main Road Transport Inspectorate, penalties, fines, etc., but also revenue from the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways, from the Civil Aviation Authority and from the Technical Supervision Office. On the other hand, spending is very interesting, and here I also encourage the opposition to analyse, because these expenditures are increasing. So yes: in road infrastructure, ladies and gentlemen, we have an increase in expenditure year by year by 30%, and this is the amount of PLN 23 263 million. [[But why?]] I would like to ask you not to disturb me. I listened very carefully to your speech and did not disturb you. [[I'm so sorry.]] You're welcome. National Road Fund expenditure, ladies and gentlemen. Here we have an increase, of course, for investment tasks included in the programme, by 29%. State budget expenditure - increase by 34% compared to 2016. We also have planned expenditures, very good, serious expenditures, for rail transport. And here's a note: a year ago, when we were talking about the budget, from this speaker I asked the Minister of Infrastructure aloud if there were projects for rail investments. You've left a blank. The Ministry of Infrastructure has not prepared any railway infrastructure projects, [[Applause]] And today you say you can't spend money. Then who's lying? [[Bravo.]] Who's lying here? [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] However, we will spend this money well, plan well, and implement these plans. In short, for railway infrastructure we have more than PLN 11 280 million, and this is the financing from the state budget of the costs of managing railway infrastructure, further, these are expenditures on national railway investments financed by excise duty, these are expenditures at the railway station, because this is also an important element, or a segment, a railway image, and of course there are also expenditures on passenger transport and the Railway Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we not going to do? What aren't we gonna do? Namely, we will not commit the foolishness you have committed. [[Applause]] Remember when you bought a Pendolino that couldn't leave because the tracks weren't adjusted? Do you remember this situation? You bought Pendolino and didn't know what to do with it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The investment was packed, with a bow, because Pendolino couldn't get on the track. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[That's not true.]] [[But he drives, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Pesy is gone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u134	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u135	Big deal. But you did an interesting, excellent thing - I'll remind you - you built the most expensive motorboat in the world for PLN 1100 million. Namely, it is a warship whose construction was started, but you stopped financing it in 2012 and came out the most expensive motorboat of the world from all this. Ladies and gentlemen, an increase in administrative expenditure of 10 billion. That was in your day, 10 billion. [[He's right.]] We won't make those mistakes. In my opinion, it is also worth reminding you of the compensation you had to pay. You paid off, for example. PLN 5 billion for compensation for so-called "indemnities." One-armed bandits. It was a waste. [[Applause]] The Jagiellonian Club, a non-governmental organisation, estimated that the Civic Platform lost PLN 450 billion in 2008. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What's he even saying?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u136	Thank you very much, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But what's your limit? A million.]] [[Voice from the hall: 100 zlotys.]] [[Voice from the hall: And a hundred no.]] Please, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform. And I'm asking you to let your emotions cool off in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u137	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll talk about taxes. According to the 2017 budget, taxes are projected to amount to more than 301 billion, i.e. more than 92.5% in total. so it is the taxes that decide the budget that determine the possibilities, apart from deficits, loans, loans, above all taxes, but unfortunately there is no coherent concept of the tax system and the transformation of this system. There is currently no model to be implemented by the government and therefore there is no coherent and comprehensive programme for the transformation of this system and for changes in tax law. At first it seemed that these changes would result from electoral promises, but now PiS is withdrawing from very important promises, sometimes unable to deliver them, and in this respect they are beginning to dominate current political and economic needs. A tax has been introduced on certain financial institutions, and this was in line with the promise, which is borne primarily by customers. It wasn't destroyed, and there were promises, a tax on the extraction of some fossils. The increase in the amount of personal income tax free was practically waived. We know there's a project, but his fate, his intentions are unknown. The construction of the retail tax has not been managed, although the revenue from that tax is foreseen and in the 2016 budget and in the 2017 budget. The government was somehow unable to prepare a non-disputed tax from the point of view of compliance with European law. Mr President of the Committee on Public Finance spoke very ugly about Prime Minister Tusk, because during the crisis the VAT rate was increased to 23%. Now, according to the current rules, from 1 January this rate is to be reduced to 22%, but as we know, it will be raised by the state or maintained at 23%. I wonder what the President thinks of the authors of this idea, so that this rate continues to be 23%. [[Applause]] It seems that the introduction of the National Tax Administration Act is in danger of serious chaos. An anti-tax avoidance clause is indicated as an important sealing instrument. However, it must be stressed that it has not been applied once before, not once. It attaches great importance to the sealing of the system, but nothing is said about the adoption of a new Tax Order, on which the work ends properly or is already completed. Work on a new integrated personal income tax raises considerable concerns for entrepreneurs. The examples I have indicated, because this is not a complete list, are an illustration of the lack of a comprehensive concept and action under the influence of different impulses. This leads to a lack of coherence and consistency, and sometimes chaos and reduces the effectiveness of regulation. In this state of affairs, there is a call for the development of a concept of transformation of the tax system and changes in the rules of tax law. This concept and its implementation are important both for the proper functioning of the budget and for taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, at the presentation of the budget, we had a lot of optimism from this side of the room regarding both the implementation of the 2016 budget and the 2017 budget. I would like to draw your attention to the part of the justification that was so appealing the authors of the justification that he is on page. 15 and 16, but later there is again in extenso quoted on p. 30 and 31. I suggest you pay attention to him. What do we read here? The implementation of the state budget in 2016 is referred to here. We read this: The income from PIT will be made at a level higher than expected, the income from CIT is forecast at a similar level, the revenue from excise duty will be higher, although there are no figures here, the VAT revenue will be higher - that is, p. 15. Only in 2016 will the tax on certain financial institutions be carried out at a lower level than originally assumed. So success in PIT, success in CIT, in excise duty, in VAT. Now here's a summary of what the essence of this success is. In spite of this, the total tax revenue will be only slightly lower than projected in the Budget Act. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo!]] That's twice in your justification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u138	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u139	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I very much regret that Mr Morawiecki is not in the room, because I wanted to dedicate to him a fragment of the poem of Brzechwa: 'Samochwa waża': 'Samochwa waśnie in the corner' and she kept saying: 'I am capable of being incredibly capable,' 'I have the most beautiful clothes,' 'My mouth is splashing with health,' and if I say something, I will say it.' [[Applause]] And now about what Prime Minister Morawiecki said. Prime Minister Morawiecki and the Minister discreetly slipped through the around budget bill, covered with fig leaf the reduction of expenditure, which is estimated in this law at PLN 2 billion. But honesty would order us to say it. This is less money from the social benefit fund, that is 200 million less money for the work for the young, 200 million less from the labour fund for entrepreneurs. So for the economy, 2 billion were deleted. It wasn't told discreetly. The budget is a document and spending money to make people better. What's a better life like? My colleagues said: higher VAT, no amount of free money. In the Seym, the President's project is either slimy or not realized. We will lose on this, in our pockets there will be no amount, which was initially estimated at 18 billion, but it can be modestly estimated at 6 billion PLN. You say how well you are trying to allocate money to education, giving teachers an increase in salaries of about thirty zlotys. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an example, as in 2005-2007 you could not even save in the budget expenditure of 500 million for increases. What did we do? Three times at 10%. We gave raises to teachers. You can check it out and it's not 30 zlotys a year. Even education subsidies with a decrease in the number of pupils by PLN 1 million in 2010 increased by PLN 10 billion. So you will not enchant this and the story, the enchantment from this speaker by Prime Minister Morawiecki will do nothing. You said you were very critical of the so-called. Forest tax - 2% value of sales from sold wood. You were so critical of it, and what did you do? Nothing, the Forests will continue to pay the same amount of tax to the budget. Tax on fossils 1% - he's been discussed. The Minister says he can build it now. As a banker, he knows perfectly well that if there was no good basis, he wouldn't have built anything. So there is a good basis, a driven economy, negotiated the highest resources from the European Union for support, now just to spend well. [[Applause]] Let's hope this isn't the way you want it to be, like you're telling us, living plus 6,000. The apartments are a reproduction of your project of 3 million apartments... [[You didn't do anything.]] ... The three million apartments you announced and didn't do it. This year there is a shortage of money to live for young people, so that you can get support where young people want to build, and you said no, our amendment was not accepted by the state. For the next year 750 million and this is not enough either, because the apartment+ is not going to start. And don't tell, don't charm, Mr Rzonec doesn't charm either, because the money that was for the revitalization of the cities was accepted by that coalition and gives us a chance to revitalize about 20,000. housing, plus money at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for social housing. Only local governments need to want to. It is necessary here to re-enchant what the Prime Minister was so trying to enchant you with his personal charm. If he compares - the gardener is not - apples to apples, he should like a banker compare money to money, situations and periods that were in the past, to periods that were in the past, not to try to manipulate. In the bank, Prime Minister, you can't manipulate money. That's where you have to be honest. I think your previous work taught you that. So then, when Europe had a crisis, when the world had a crisis, we had GDP growth - the highest. This is worth saying, and then we compare apples from the same year to apples from the same year, not trying to manipulate statistics. We have two more things I'd like to say. Milk bars. These milk bars are like your nails in a coffin. Every government -- every government -- who tried to fight the dairy bars, unfortunately, fell down or quickly withdrew from it. That's what the SLD did. [[A fortune.]] ...and that's what you're doing now. Never mind. Too bad you're trying to fight the milk bars. And I would like to see the Prime Minister... Once again for Prime Minister Morawiecki what was at the beginning. As you say, or as the Prime Minister has said, you have done nothing. Just as you adopted the law on the income of local government units - she was bad, for a year, as we introduced. You did the same thing for three years. You're doing all the things you've done, you're replicating, but if you're firming them with your name, you think it's good. [[Voice from the hall: Paul yet!]] This is how Prime Minister Morawiecki acted today - like a self-glory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u140	Thank you very much, Member. With a corrigendum from Mr Rzońc, please. It's just a brief corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u141	Marshal, thank you very much. I wanted to correct the honourable Member's statement that I am enchanting anything here. Dear Member, I have relied solely on facts, I have not made anything up, and I do not want to say anything else, but I will remind you of one more important thing. The cost of national nuclear power plant construction program - PLN 182 million thrown into the mud. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u142	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski. [[Have you corrected the small ones yet, Member?]] [[But why? Was I talking about the nuclear power plant?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u143	I'll make up with them, I'll make up with them. [[It's not gonna work, Taddy.]] I'm gonna start with ad vocem because I was a little provoked by this MdM program and I'm gonna say in public: I regret it, I resent the PiS club that he even accepted this program. Why? I don't mind helping young people. We can help everyone and these young people too, but - and this Platform still cannot understand - first of all, we need to help the weak three times. [[Applause]] - those young people who don't have credit and they won't, and there are many. How can you pay interest to someone who has this opportunity, and others say, as in Bergman's movie, "I had nothing but two hands but love." [[We'll see tomorrow.]] And to them you turned your backs. [[Applause]] You do everything for the wealthy and the mighty and the rich and those who hold God's feet. It's time to learn from this. I'm sorry for the voice, but I've always defended the weak. And that's what you've been tempted to do because you're embarrassed because you're a pet. [[Applause]] I didn't like what we did in the past, because we're not saints either. But we can learn from it. Critical assessment of your own accomplishments, reflection - that's what it is, yes! Because today's situation didn't fall on the parachute. We also do not condemn what the Platform was doing. [[What do you mean, no?]] Glory to you, for example. For things that are disabled. They raised: 300, 400, 800, 1300 PLN. You couldn't brag about it. It wasn't my fault. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But I appreciate it, and I see it. Let's get to the point, 'cause I'm supposed to talk about defense. So in human terms this budget is clear, clear - an increase by PLN 1.4 billion. As a citizen, I have such simple anger, as a Member or former soldier, a reserve officer I resent and regret the state to which Polish defence has been brought for 8 years. [[Applause]] When I was a kid, I used to sing... It's actually sadness, not applause - I don't know what it is. ...as a boy in Boy Scouts we sang, and you all remember: "When you sleep, the country is guarded by someone here so that no one will wake you up." from a dream. Then, at an older age, I read the words that I would like to quote: "When a single man faints and falls on the street, people rush him to race with help: when a nation faints in history, the peoples rush, one by one, to kill him. Henryk Sienkiewicz, over 100 years ago. Has anything changed? Probably a lot, but, ladies and gentlemen, no UN, no NATO, no treaties, no Hague, no Brussels, no Vatican, no Moscow, no one will eliminate the risks or fears of war. We're only fighting to reduce the risk. I'm not saying I'm a fan of war, I'm not scaring war, but these laughs, giggles, this contempt, this ridicule, this fun... including this man whose name I won't mention here, because there's an infamous memory, a presidential candidate who publicly, when we're trying to strengthen our own defences, taunts, taunts and urges to boycott - that's what happened, and the state should be punished, and harshly. This is also a measure of the fall of the state. He said, "Don't stand, don't stand when they call you." What's my point? Those flavors are a lot. Let's criticize each other, but it's fair. I'm looking at the clock because you have to control yourself. There's a lot of talk about caracals - former president, former prime minister. Someone's gonna say "someone" to me, too. However, this is someone, these are the people who led our country. And at this point, Speaking of caracala, it's worth quoting, not just anyone. He is the President of the European Parliament, maybe not the guru, but a man who does not speak three by three and does not grind with the proverbial tongue or pops out like Philip of hemp, but weighs words - dignified, calm, will think twice before he says it once. And he thought about commenting on the decision about these caracals. Who are we talking about? Of course, ladies and gentlemen, Jerzy Buzek, yes. What did he say? I can't imagine France, the United States or any other country that produces two nice helicopters that buys the whole world. He didn't say he was against it, that he didn't like it, he said otherwise - he didn't imagine it. Famous words. It's not an oracle, and it's not evidence, but it's just what he said. I'm not going to go overboard on this. And at this point, instead of letting the curtain down and letting it get out of the alley for the benefit of all of us, there are some irresponsible voices, because we're just giving fuel to potential... Let's not tempt fate. Besides, I will neither teach anyone nor want to be accused of suggesting or bad words, but when a tender is organised, and I was mayor, and this is not about setting up a tender, and if we are concerned with local interest, national interest, then we are investigating, observing who and what produces, but making a tender where our Polish companies were losing at the entrance, it is unfortunately a disgrace. You have to say it clearly and loudly. [[What Polish companies?]] Yes, it's Polish. [[Straight from America.]] When Bogdan Klich solemnly announced his resignation in 2008, everyone was relieved. But what was in return? The answer is simple - nothing. Official data from 2009, 2010 and 2011 - no training of reservists. If someone thinks caracale and f-16 or rockets are enough, they're in big error. And neglect in the field of territorial defense, training the reservists. Yet another great sin and error - since 2008 the mature age has reached over one million young Polish men, a real flower, in this number my sons. None of them have undergone the most elementary chemical, medical, topographic and finally shooting training. So? And that's good, because it's a lot easier to buy one caracala for 260 million than in the field to train, to practice elementaryly in this basic, unitary, at least tens of thousands of soldiers. And I'm not surprised the generals say we have a defense for two or three days. This is not a betrayal of state secrets, this is simply a situation that we are trying very hard to come out of right now. And first, we have to ask what kind of participation we have in bringing about this situation, and then we have to do great criticism. Mr. Marshal! As far as the professional army is concerned, it must be said that according to research only 27% of Poles declare their willingness to defend, actively defend, armed, our country. Therefore, in the next year's budget for training in the field of territorial defence, we have anticipated the amount of nearly PLN 700 million, and by 2019 total for this very important factor of defence we are predicting the allocation of PLN 3600 million. For the equipment of these soldiers, for the equipment - 2 billion. As for infantry training, because such a word can be used, it is about Beryl rifles, mortars, grenades, vests - it is very important because these are components, materials, weapons that are manufactured in our country. Alliances are good, but they never gave any guarantees. According to research by the Ministry of National Defence and the Warsaw military academy, research by Polish historians, in the 20th century in Europe and the world over 90% of alliances did not work. We as Poles found this very painfully in September, when the treaties were beaten, even with details. And we have an example from the latest times, it was happening right in front of us, which is what alliances mean. For the 1800 nuclear warheads that Ukraine has decided to give to the Russians, it has received the best guarantees possible. United States, United Kingdom, Russia - Budapest memorandum. We see how it worked in practice. Does that mean we're not supposed to pursue alliances? No. Yes, alliances are very important, but they are apart from their own military force, not instead. I don't want to... A friend of Rozonec's said it so hard here, but those are the rules of this game, so I have to say it. One of the leading politicians of the Platform, Radosław Sikorski, not to be bullied, but he used exactly... I quote his words because it is very important: The Polish-American alliance is worthless, it is even harmful, because it creates a false sense of security for Poland. That's what he said, in a conversation with Mr. Rostowski, of course. Plus, we're gonna get into conflict with the Germans, with Russia, because we're gonna do grace, I think, to the Americans. Losers, total losers. The problem in Poland is that we have shallow pride and low self-esteem. It's so black. Rostowski added: What? Negroness. It was about self-esteem. These are embarrassing tapes, but they're talking about a very important thing. It's kind of hard not to agree with that. This cannot be underestimated, but politics for eight years has been such that we believe in the European Union and NATO. Today, we, as the current government and coalition, must make an effort, also financially, but above all, I stress: organizational, because training and obstruction is difficult. Social demoralization has also taken place to a large extent. I understand that it is politically uncomfortable to say: to your march, to your army, even for two weeks, because they will say, and you take it, and they are in Britain, on trips, so they have avoided this difficult thing. We have to face it, and don't bother us with it. Together, because in military matters, in defence matters, we must all speak with one voice. The last witnesses of September live, they remember that. Bottom line is, time passes slowly, inexorably, in our modernization plans, we want to say that in the first place... The whole consciousness took us helicopters, but you have to remember. also about other programs, including the most expensive, expensive Vistula programme, so the medium range defence program - anti-aircraft and missile. There are still several other programmes and the current government will carry out evaluation and selection in spring 2017. It is difficult to choose because, on the one hand, we have to put very hard on technique, but, as I said, and once again I emphasize, because it is not my view or invention, the decisive factor in the contemporary battlefield, however, remains a man and that is why we have to make up for the many years lost, one can say, because for a few years in this matter practically nothing has been done. As for the entire budget, I will symbolically continue to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, program 500+, we pride ourselves on it for a reason. The Prime Minister said that in such a situation, under such a ruthless attack, we still found almost 2 billion to value to raise family benefits. It's a phenomenon. Those benefits, attention, attention... [[Clairvoyant.]] ... This will be the punch line that the Platform has raised by PLN 7 for eight years. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think I'm gonna lie down in that bleacher. Check it out on the computer. You really need a lot of nerve to make it so hard, because the fact that you're attacking, okay, but not so hard, really measure. It doesn't work and it doesn't work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u144	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Morawiecki, presenting the draft budget, used a number of indicators and figures, while he interpreted them in a rather specific way. According to the Prime Minister, everything that's supposed to grow in this budget will grow, and what's supposed to grow will be low. Is that for sure? If we could at least try to look at some things objectively. It is often said that such a barometer of the future economy is the stock market. Let's see, what's our stock market like? Well, WIG20 in September, that is, in the month when the budget indicators were already known, lost the most of all indicators around the world, WIG20 in September. If we looked at the whole year, from September 2015 to September 2016, our stock market looks miserable. It's like we're comparing it to other stock markets: the German DAX - 5% Up, American Dow Jones - 10% up, the Hungarian BUX has grown 33% this year, and the WIG20 is minus 19.3. This best indicates how investors, how entrepreneurs perceive our stock market, our future. Therefore, I think it would be worth considering how to win investors, how to encourage them to invest also in Poland, because it seems that the draft of this budget is not conducive to this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u146	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Anyone else want to join the list? You're welcome. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Biernat, the Law and Justice Club. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u147	I would refer to this phrase: you know perfectly well what happened to the stock market after the money heist from OFE. Ladies and gentlemen, similarly with regard to VAT translations. Here it fell on the part of the Civic Platform that in 2011 you raised VAT to save the budget, the economic situation caused it. Ladies and gentlemen, VAT has been increased by 1%, from 22% to 23%. What was the result? Each of us, each household had to pay more for services, for goods, but in the budget in the first year only minimally increased VAT revenues. Let me remind you that in the second year it did not increase at all, and in the third year, the revenue from VAT to the budget fell. They fell. Hence my question, Minister: Does the Government of Law and Justice plan to increase VAT and other taxes effectively? What will be the effect on the state budget of increasing these taxes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u148	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paul Arndt, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions, one about revenue, the other about spending. As far as income is concerned, I'd like to ask you about the big-store tax. The draft budget includes the amount of PLN 1200 million of revenue from this title in 2017. Meanwhile, we know that the law on this tax has been suspended, and there is no new law. The question is where this amount came from and how this tax will be charged. Yesterday the government was on this case, so we might be able to get some fresh information here. As regards expenses, a few weeks ago, in the discussion of the abortion, Prime Minister Beata Szydło promised that families with disabled people would receive additional amounts, additional money. I'd like to ask what money it's going to be, how it's going to be. they will be added to the budget and when it will happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u150	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15. [[Can I come back later?]] Then at the end of the list, because we're not gonna be here... Here you go, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u151	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Between 2014 and 2020 Poland has to use EUR 82.5 billion from EU cohesion policy. I would like to point out that this is more than in the previous perspective of 2007 and 2013, because it was about EUR 68 billion at the time. Minister, Prime Minister, unfortunately there is no Prime Minister, what is the state of use of funds today, because in theory we are two and a half years after the start of the new financial perspective, and the figures presented in July were even below any criticism? Is it true that we are over a year behind in spending this money? The latest data of the CSO shows a decrease in construction production in Poland by more than 20% year by year. The long-standing lack of decision-making in the infrastructure department has a fatal impact on the construction industry and threatens to lose billions of aid from the European Union. Why is the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction so slow to unblock rail and road programmes? When will these tenders be unlocked? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u152	Thank you very much. Come on in, sir. [[The Minister is.]] [[But not in the benches, I'm sorry.]] I'm asking you to calm down. Mr Jan Łopata, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u153	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! It is highly appreciated that you really have a great deal of ability to present amounts or sets in such a way that, on average, a listening citizen assumes that more is less, and more or less so, as you like. This is what you do with the deficit, which is the highest in the history of the Republic of Poland, but you formulate the opposite conclusion. You give the amount of refund for medicines for the whole year and confront the amount from 2016, which is, as you know, only for one quarter. And I was most interested, but I am not hiding, also irritated - as a person directly related to the national road reconstruction program, then with different names - this thread of roads, district roads, communal roads, local districts. You sacrificed almost the entire paragraph of your speech to the Prime Minister and stated that he exchanged the amount of PLN 800 million for this purpose next year - I would like to point out that this is 200 million less than our government presented - and then, as a confrontation with this amount, he exchanged another, as if extra, 2150 million, but as he calculated, most of this amount is on the railroad. [[♪ The bell ♪]] According to my calculations, there is only 150 million zlotys left, extra supposedly, which is 50 million less...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u154	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u155	...than we spent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question: When will we finally see in the budget a reduction in expenditure due to the return of pension benefits granted to former Communist regime officers to the level of ordinary citizens' benefits? How much longer are we going to tolerate this privilege of communist criminals? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u158	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u159	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, According to the International Monetary Fund report, the total efficiency of collecting personal income tax, corporate tax and value added tax in Poland reached around 16 point of GDP in 2008 and fell to 14 point in 2009. For several years, the tax collection efficiency was stable but decreased to 13.1 points in 2013. The projection for 2014 is 13.5 points of GDP. These poor performance results are contrary to the performance of other countries in Europe where the level of tax collection compared to GDP has returned to the levels recorded before the crisis. Tax obligations have also deteriorated. According to a study recently published by the European Commission, [[♪ The bell ♪]] VAT avoidance, the main tax in Poland, increased from 18% potential collection of VAT in 2010 to 25% in 2012 Prime Minister, can this be considered government negligence or...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u160	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u161	...to improve this state of affairs is an extremely difficult challenge? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! We talk a lot about savings, about different kinds of savings. It's said that there's going to be joint agricultural agencies, and there's going to be a lot of savings. But Kukiz15 already in June submitted a draft law on combining inspections, a very important project, important for agriculture, but also important for savings. My question is, when will this project go on from some freezer, or when will there be a government project, so that we can work on a government project? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u164	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The budget assumes a significant decrease in the proceeds from dividends from State Treasury companies. Recently, the government has been practicing on the example of one of the companies draining profits by raising capital and collecting tax. Will this be a mechanism that the government will apply next year on a wider scale? I have one more question. According to the budget, local governments are to return to a wide range of large-scale investments. At the same time, it is assumed that local government units will not increase their debt. Even considering that the JSTs are to benefit from European funds, they must have money for their own contribution. They often came from such bridge loans, short-term loans. Where, then, are local governments supposed to get the money? I also have a question for Mr Cymanski, who unfortunately is not here because he spoke a lot about living+. [[There it is.]] Does he realize that the offer you offer in many smaller towns is not for young people at all [[♪ The bell ♪]] With no prospects, it's just the same as an offer on the open housing market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u166	Thank you very much, ma'am. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft budget of the State for 2017 is planned for the National Election Office and is in two headings. This is in part 11 of the budget of 71 447 000. zł. It's kind of obvious, there's subsidies, subsidies, current expenditure of budget units. Together, I repeat, 71 447,000, and that doesn't raise any doubt. However, there is also a special-purpose reserve, which is more than the current expenditure, because as many as 111 612 thousand, i.e. it is already a large amount, because 183 059 thousand. My question is obvious. Do you need that much money? Is the government planning any early elections? Because I understand that the supplementary elections are already included in these amounts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u168	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u169	Minister! Why was the government of PO-PSL hiding the budget deficit by providing loans to the Social Insurance Fund instead of grants? How big were the amounts? Please tell me how much the previous government has raised the tax-free amount in the last eight years. Is it true that about 2 zlotys? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u170	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform. There isn't. Please, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question, as usual, short and concrete. Why did spending on the Sejm Chancellery increase by PLN 28 million this year, and why did expenditure on the Senate Chancellery increase by PLN 21 million? I would like to point out here that we have a good example from September when we had a one-day meeting on September 5th. Then, of course, we ran off, part of Krynica, part of it came home. Later, the meeting was held on September 13, 14 and September 21, 23. My question is whether the 5th, 13th and 14th of September could not be combined, because, ladies and gentlemen, every call for such a meeting, this whole fleet of cars, these flights, it's all a lot of money. Therefore, my question is: Why did spending on the Sejm Office and the Senate Office increase this amount? That's pretty much it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u172	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to ask you about the MON budget. What amount will be transferred from purchasing equipment for payouts for soldiers who will operate within the Territorial Defence Army? It seems to us that, in the first place, these funds that are earmarked for the budget should go to the purchase of equipment, and only in the second place will the Minister's army be seized. The question, of course, is whether the Minister's representation expenses will be reduced next year, because this year he changed the rules that it would be acceptable, but at the discretion of the Commission, it is possible to spend a few billion zlotys, so it seems good to clarify this. I would also like to know if this announcement to reduce the dividend payment from the Treasury companies would not serve this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to subsequently repeat the operation that was applied in the case of PGE, i.e. to contribute capital increase and tax on this increase to the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u174	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u175	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Listening to the Prime Minister's speech, I had the impression that I was listening to the Minister of Propaganda, not the Minister of Economy. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear, dear.]] 'Cause that's what it looked like. You can have a fantasy, [[Game in the O.R.]] except that in the economy it is so that the economy after a certain period says: I check, and this is very sad later for all citizens. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Who says this?]] But a specific question. The Prime Minister very often talks about supporting Polish enterprises, the Polish economy. There is a multi-annual programme, 2015.2021, during this period, and on the contrary, only 6% from this programme for next year is dedicated to supporting the competitiveness of Polish companies. I'm showing this as an example that it's something else in propaganda and something else in action. So my question is: Why is so little money from the budget intended just to support the competitiveness of Polish companies? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u176	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Bielecki, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! For starters, I would like to ask you about this budget deficit, because here it was said that it was a record deficit. I would like to ask: What was the planned deficit of the state budget in 2010? And another question. Now we're working a lot on the National Tax Administration. I would like to ask: What savings will be included in the budget in 2017, and what benefits will citizens have due to these changes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u178	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u179	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to ask you about the education budget. I will not ask questions about how the Minister calculated that her reform will not have any financial consequences, because that is simply not true. But I want to ask you something else. Well, the previous budget included money, precisely in the field of education, which was intended for the implementation of the programme "Safe school" and its continuation "Safe+" - a programme which was based on such a principle and on such a premise that in order to actually function effectively in the area of child safety in schools, it is necessary to combine forces and teachers, and parents, and pupils too. The funding for this programme focused on special workshops, trainings and helping parents, teachers and students to acquire skills and knowledge - in terms of cybersecurity, in terms of the physical safety of students at school, in terms of skills acquisition by the youngest in cooperation with various services, among others. with the fire department. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask: Will this programme continue and what money is earmarked for it in the budget of the Ministry of Education? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u180	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15. There isn't. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! When I look at the 2017 budget under the heading: Education, I come to the conclusion that, however, Minister Zalewska withdrew from the education reform, because where we have differences between this and the following year, it is about changing the age of going to school for 7 years, about the issue of pre-school subsidies, about the issue of improving teachers or about the issue of transferring several schools to the Ministry of Agriculture, while there is nothing about the reimbursement for local authorities of the costs of education reform. Of course, given that the law itself does not have information about the effects of this reform, about the costs for local government units, it is not surprising what is in the budget. However, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask: Given that the subsidy is barely enough to cover the costs of current education in municipalities and powiats, which is what you want local governments to cover. [[♪ The bell ♪]] costs of education reform?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u182	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Andrzej Nobletta, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the PO-PSL regime, a new form of concealment of public debt in the form of a special-purpose fund was used in the National Road Fund to circumvent the existing debt limits. At the end of 2016, the debt of the National Road Fund amounted to PLN 33,4 billion, giving an amount of PLN 880 per capita. I have a question for the government: How does the current government plan to repay the National Road Fund's liabilities for borrowing and issuing bonds? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u184	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u185	I kindly ask the Prime Minister to answer three questions. Confusion and reform of the National Tax Administration - large, important, unprepared. So will you be able to handle tax collection? The reform itself concerns 65 000. persons employed in the IRS. The second point is to increase the nominal value of the shares held in PGE by PLN 500 million, with this CIT tax paid into the budget of PLN 100 million. It is estimated that if you carried out such a transaction in other companies, it would be possible to contribute PLN 10 billion to the budget. Is that how you're gonna try to cheat shareholders? And the third thing, very important. PZU as a state insurer has recently applied very high increases, among others. motor insurance. I would like a declaration from the Prime Minister if you would look into it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's because we're getting extra money out of our pockets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u186	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Wojciech Bakun, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! Of course, we pay close attention to any record of savings, especially in terms of savings in the administration, in the service of the state. One such form of savings, as the previous speaker said here, is to be the reform of the National Tax Administration. That is why I wanted to ask about the budget item, namely expenditure on tax chambers and tax offices, which is supposed to amount to 3670 million in 2017. This is 40 million more than last year. With the stubbornness of the maniac, you are trying to process the creation of the National Tax Administration from January 2017. Hence the question: How do these increased expenditures come to the announced [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your savings in the creation of the KAS? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u188	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In connection with the government's decision to reduce the retirement age, you are entering the draft budget law of PLN 2.5 billion, because since October 2017 this age reduction is to apply. My question is, what about the next few years? Do you have the calculated costs for the following years, for the year, for 2, 3 years, for 10 years, to bear the budget of the State due to this reform, the withdrawal of the retirement age? Now, in this budget, are you planning any savings so that in the future you can patch up this budget gap in connection with the age reduction? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u190	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Piotr Pole, the Law and Justice Club. Are you an MP? [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Please, Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform. There isn't either. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very worrying that we have again in power a party which, like the predecessors, is indebted to the power of our country. It's very dangerous. The state should function like a good company, that is, if we spend on something, we must have money for it. It's a little different around here. Looks like it. This is worrying, all the more so because we have a lot of expenditure completely unnecessary. I mean, among other things. Party subsidies. I understand that for the party it is very important to play saw for taxpayers' money, eat octopus and expensive trips, but I think we are able to allocate this money for far more important purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u192	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm referring to one of the departments on the regional accounting chambers. Well, following the budget so far, I can see that the dynamics in terms of salaries for chamber workers were at the level of approx. 3%. There has been a lot of talk in the committees about the fact that the employees of the chambers of accounts earn less than the employees, the auditors of the other chambers. My questions: Why only 1.5% is foreseen for 2017 ? What are the decisions on the decline of this salary dynamic in this institution? Isn't it right to move towards gradually aligning these wages with those in other chambers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u194	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There have been so many thunderstorms about the budget, of course from the opposition, about debt, so I have this question: Is the government going to follow the spending rule in the coming years and so-called. prudential thresholds for debt? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u196	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15. There isn't either. Please, Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club. There isn't. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have this question for the Prime Minister: What external threats, including international threats, can have a significant impact on the key macroeconomic indicators adopted in the 2017 budget? Is this a threat to the banking crisis in Europe and the rise in interest rates in the United States? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u198	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who said that there are two things to be fulfilled: paying taxes and dying. Of course, he also recalled that there was no obligation to pay this tax for the previous government. As I understand it, the Prime Minister was referring to his attitude as a taxpayer, the manager of one of the major banks. 'Cause I have to say, that's the way it is: there was a regression in paying taxes by a bank run by you. In 2007 this bank paid 280 million PLN, in the following years it was only 256, 222, 265, 268. As you have taken over another bank, this tax has increased slightly, and this bank's income has also increased significantly. I wanted to ask: Did you rob Poland, the Polish budget? Did you honestly pay those taxes? [[What are you saying?]] Perhaps you did. already inspection of the ministry and the tax chambers for this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want this bank to check properly to see if there's any tax arrears at times. [[Applause]] [[I thought he was smarter than that, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u200	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister Beata Szydło, arguing the government's decisions, often says that the government is fulfilling its electoral promises. So let me quote the Prime Minister's statement from that year, made during her pre-election visit to Lublin. She talked about the fossil tax: we have prepared a bill and if you trust us, and PiS will create a government, we will eliminate this unfair tax for KGHM. When I read the draft budget, I see a tax on fossils on the revenue side. It is, but this fulfillment of promises is not true. That's the first thing. The second thing, the government is very keen to lobby CETA, so I have a question: Is there a budget provision for compensation resulting from the mechanism that will function as ICS arbitration? There's nothing to say that's not going to happen, and these are colossal amounts. Let me remind you that your predecessors paid Eureko an amount of PLN 9 billion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are financial facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have two questions. The first relates to the tax-free amount. There is no indication in the 2017 budget that you want to implement one of your flagship electoral promises, i.e. increase the tax-free amount. In Poland, the tax-free amount is one of the lowest in Europe, but it is the most democratic means of leaving money in the pockets of citizens and supporting Polish families. Moreover, in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, the current tax-free law expires on 30 November. I understand there's going to be a serious problem with that. Question: "Is the government going to do something about it?" Second thing, I wanted to ask you about privatisation. In the budget project, you wrote proudly that no privatisation processes would be conducted in 2017. For years, you have criticized everyone for nepotism and pathology in the management of the Treasury companies. You Misiewicz have crossed all possible barriers and you want to continue without proposing any privatisation processes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, is it true that the costs, in terms of hunting damages, of the amendment to Chapter 9 of the Hunting Law have not been included and will therefore not be valid in 2017, as is apparent from the Act - because there was no money or there was a lobby - and it will apply from 2018? Prime Minister, is the presentation of data, presentation of the draft budget for 2017 in relation to the 2016 plan correct? Should it not be presented in relation to the implementation of the 2016 budget? And last question: As an entrepreneur who knows what it means to earn 100,000. PLN 1 million net, how much effort is needed in terms of people and organization, or are you not afraid, by expressing your willingness to implement the budget, that from willingness to execute [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it a long way? You said it would be a disgrace to the other budgets that were made. Will it not be, or maybe it will be your personal embarrassment and undermining your authority? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u206	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15. There isn't. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u207	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Mr. Vice Prime Minister! High Izbo! I listened attentively to the Prime Minister's words. The Prime Minister informed about the indicators you are planning for 2017, i.e. GDP growth - 3.9% , inflation - 1.3%, unemployment - 8.1%. In fact, the Prime Minister was quite optimistic about it. I didn't find any reason in your speech to plan these indicators so optimisticly. As they are of key importance to the budget, I wanted to quote some facts. Firstly, investments are falling dramatically, and since the production gap closes in 2017, the Prime Minister himself realises that this will not last long. You have a catastrophic EU spending statistics, only 2%, and you're pretty good with a program that you started right after you came to power - this program is called the "Dutch State"+. [[♪ The bell ♪]] e.g. Teddy bears are a symptom of this program. [[Cut it out.]] On the other hand, I wanted to ask: How much money do you plan for activities that have taken place recently, namely the granting of PLN 1 million for projects led by Senator PiS and so-called. an independent expert...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u208	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u209	...Marshal Kuchciński's team? So how many million are you planning for your officers in the budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u210	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u211	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u212	Please don't prolong your time to ask questions. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Agriculture is affected by numerous droughts and dreams, especially by the Kujawy problem. The aid schemes for farmers so far have proved ineffective and have been challenged by farmers. Farmers expect a crop insurance system that will protect against misfortune and will not ruin their farms. The optimal system is the insurance system with a State budget contribution. Law and Justice promised and kept their word. From PLN 200 million in 2016 the amount in the 2017 budget for this purpose is up to PLN 917 million, i.e. over PLN 700 million more. This amount will grow every year. Prime Minister, what measures does the government intend to take to promote to farmers a favourable insurance scheme with a State budget subsidy so that they can make full use of it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u214	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, Civic Platform. Miss Mirosławy Nykiel, Civic Platform, is gone. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz, 15, also absent. Then you're... It is, isn't it? [[Voice from the room: It's here, I think it's coming.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u215	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Not further than on Tuesday at the meeting of the government we heard that the trade tax is to be suspended at least until 1 January 2018, while listening carefully to the Prime Minister's statements, I learned that for 2017 it is planned to increase the income from trade tax by PLN 970 million. Prime Minister, how did you calculate this? Is it from this originally planned amount of commercial tax, which is included in the budget, or is it from that amount actually obtained in 2016? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u216	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u217	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Ministers! High Izbo! First of all, I have a question for the Prime Minister, because I do not know if I understand correctly, but if I understand it correctly, I wanted to thank you warmly and warmly for what the Prime Minister said, for an additional amount for roads of PLN 2 billion. Whether this is the amount of 2 billion plus 800 million that was planned, i.e. a total of 2800 million or a total of 2 billion, this is nevertheless a very large increase. And I would have a request if it were possible to obtain in writing such an answer to the question of who will be responsible for these measures, where municipalities and district governments will be able to apply for these funds, whether they will be available for use next year, because it is a really great idea. And for this I would like to thank you once again on behalf of local authorities, because unfortunately there is no such money for local roads in the European Union funds. I'd like to ask you again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for a written reply if possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u218	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u219	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask what reasons they have decided to withdraw the subsidy for dairy bars. Milk bars are, in fact, a discreet form of feeding the nation, for not all have succeeded or failed in life. And the retirees and the students, but also the students are such a traditional group enjoying meals in these diners. In the summer season these milk bars it is also a place visited by inexpensive tourists. It seems that these dairy bars are often identified with the heritage of the Polish People's Republic, but in fact they are also part of the Polish socio-cultural heritage. After all, there have been since the end of the 19th century, then the first dairy bars were created. I don't understand this move. You have to. [[♪ The bell ♪]] count against the protests. It's like provocation. The National Milky Bar in Cracow will certainly ask for it. If possible, then withdraw from this change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u220	Thank you very much, sir. [[Mr...]] [[Voice from the hall: Bullshit tells.]] I invite Mr Jack Wilk, the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Budget Act is the most important law every year. In the budget, we know what the priorities are. For what is in the 2017 budget, we are grateful to residents, ordinary residents, for the 500+ family programme, for the 75+ programme and for many other things. The Prime Minister spoke about security, because this is also an important element when it comes to the tasks of the state. I have questions about flood safety. The programme, which was challenged by the European Union in 2014, seems to be being implemented to some extent. I have a question: At what stage is the flood protection programme of the upper Vistula basin? Especially the Podkarpackie voivodship and the polczycko-Sędziszowskie powiats. And another thing, Prime Minister. He was in our program, the Law and Justice program, a very important element, [[♪ The bell ♪]] sustainable development. How can the Prime Minister say that this budget is also a budget where sustainable development is implemented? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u222	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15. There isn't. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. There isn't. Let's move on. Mr Jerzy Wilk... Wojciech Wilk, I'm sorry. There isn't. Mr Piotr Liroy-March, Kukiz.15. There isn't any either. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have listened to an extremely political speech by Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki. Instead of talking about the details of the draft budget, you referred mainly to the situation during the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. There were strong words of criticism and the words that passed on to the truth. It's unbelievable how you can change your point of view depending on the point of attachment and promotion. I would therefore like to ask Minister Morawiecki: Is it true that since 2010 you have advised Prime Minister Donald Tusk as a member of the Economic Council operating at the Prime Minister? What were you doing then, Minister? What you advised the Prime Minister on matters related to public debt, Polish property [[♪ The bell ♪]] on matters that you have now been so critical of in your speech? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But Tusk wouldn't listen.]] [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u224	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15. There isn't. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! My colleague from the district, who, in her club speech, included the main sins as a first sin in her club speech, has mobilised me to say that in the state budget, in the draft budget of the State for 2017 for the service of public debt, for interest, the government will spend PLN 30 billion and, as you said, it is 30 billion thrown into the mud. I have a question, Prime Minister. We don't have the islands to sell, so how do you think it's possible to deal with those debts that the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL has incurred for eight years, but also with the previous ones? What government, our government now created by Law and Justice, what is the movement in this regard? I don't have time, but I also wanted to ask about the situation of employees in ZUS, who - also here - were raised - as employees are unnecessary. And I would appeal to find the money, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that employees in the ZUS start making more money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u226	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! The adoption centre in Jelenia Góra has been operating for 40 years: 2 thousand. The children were given up for adoption, and the other families were preparing to accept the children. The grant for this facility is 140 thousand. per year. Why, I ask, was there such an irresponsible idea to withdraw from the grant for this facility? That means she's being wound up. Why is the adoption of children limited instead of extending it because of such a low amount? I appeal to the Prime Minister to secure the grant for this very good institution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u228	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Funds for culture and national heritage are increasing in the proposed draft budget. The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage has been implementing since 2016 a National Programme for the Development of Reading, which really concerns the support of school heads and pedagogical libraries in developing students' interests by promoting and supporting the very important reading of children and young people, because these centres are really local centres of social and cultural life. Thus, according to the phrase "reading for the mind" is what body gymnastics is, these activities support and enrich society. So my question is: How will the development of readership be supported in 2017 - and please specify this in numbers [[♪ The bell ♪]] - and what are the effects of the implementation of the programme so far, what are the positive effects of this programme for 2017? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u230	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mr Jerzy Małecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In recent weeks, the revision of the legislation has entered into force, inter alia. excise duty, VAT and Energy Law: fuel and energy package. How does the Ministry plan to implement these laws? When will the sealing of the liquid fuel market begin under these regulations? What revenue for 2017 was planned by the Ministry of Finance for this purpose? And finally, I have this question: How reliable are these estimates? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u232	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! I have a question about educational finances, i.e. those funds that local governments will receive in 2017 for tasks in the field of daycare and primary schools. The pre-school grant decreases by almost PLN 300 million in a situation in which local authorities will be obliged to accept every three-year-old whose parent will report to pre-school, so the number of tasks in pre-school education will increase. As far as education subsidy is concerned, it is valued by around 1%. in a situation where you propose to value teachers' wages by 1%, you promise to cover six-year-olds with subsidies, i.e. as if the number of pupils in primary schools will not decrease compared to this year, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And Minister Zalewska is talking about 5,000. new preschool branches in primary schools and prepares a great educational revolution. You're gonna have to adjust primary schools to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u234	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u235	...older students. Prime Minister, I would also ask you to agree with the Minister on what this 1 billion, which is not included in the education grant, and which you are talking about, is intended: for six-year-olds or for the fitting of schools? Because you're misleading the public. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u236	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mieczysław Mizga, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! As of 15 January 2017, the new Hunting Law shall enter into force, in particular the estimation of the damage caused by game in crops and agricultural fetuses. We know that's what voivodeship representatives will do. This is a very big logistical challenge, which will depend, as it is estimated, on the operation of about 140 thousand. reported accumulated damage in several months over the year. Question: Is the 2017 budget fully secure for compensation and logistics? And the second theme. In the section: Construction is secured by very large funds, almost PLN 2100 million. This is a very interesting apartment program, especially. Accommodation+, but there are a lot of questions from voters about the details of this program. And can the Minister do that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Should I give you more details on this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u238	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Robert Telusio, the Law and Justice Club. [[Telusa.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Over the past years, during the last terms in Poland, mob groups have developed very strongly, groups of fraudsters who have cheated in taxes. It was called fuel groups, mafia groups. And now the Prime Minister and the government of Beata Szydło have announced the sealing of this tax system. I ask the Prime Minister: What is the planned amount of savings for these Mafia groups, those groups of fraudsters that have developed strongly in Poland over the last few years? And now on the other hand, how much of that money is left in the taxpayers' pockets? Because we know that some programs the government is preparing, like 500+, support when it comes to drugs, 75+, free apartments. How much of the money we're gonna save, which the government is gonna secure, is gonna save on those who cheated on you because that was the government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much of this is left in the taxpayers' pockets? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u240	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u241	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Why are there still 10 separate agricultural institutes? Some of them are duplicated when it comes to tasks. Their amount generates administrative costs. Does the government plan to eliminate even some of them, possibly combine them into just a few, and preferably one institute? As a Kukiz club15, we submitted such a project concerning the merger of food industry institutes. This would save at least PLN 7 million a year and make it easier for farmers and businesses. Will the government support our idea - the Kukiz15 idea? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u242	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u243	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft budget reminds me of a balloon with electoral promises that could break at any time. I can honestly say that you had the opportunity to stabilise the situation of public finances, but instead you chose the path of debt. For example, during the first half of 2016 Poland's debt increased by PLN 60 billion from planned 42 for the whole year. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the question of the indicators that have been included in this project. First of all, you pointed out a deficit of 2.9%. GDP and growth at the same time at 3.6% GDP. If it turns out that there would be some perturbation in the world economy, it could actually affect the functioning of the Polish economy and then the deficit will rise to more than 3%. GDP. We're able, potentially we could. [[♪ The bell ♪]] enter into an excessive deficit procedure and it's just gonna stand on the edge. So I would like to ask: What are the possible fuses? What you are planning, Prime Minister, to do in a situation where the situation on the world markets can actually deteriorate, which will not make Poland's economic growth the way you planned, because NBP, for example, points to an increase of 3.2% , not 3.6% , like...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u245	...do you pass? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u246	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u247	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! I have a question for the government, to the Prime Minister: How are you going to achieve revenues of PLN 325 billion? In our opinion, this will be a smaller amount. In our opinion, the deficit will be greater than PLN 59 billion, which you are planning in next year's budget. I am, of course, arguing that you are giving too high assumptions about VAT and CIT revenues. My question is this: Do you plan this CIT in such a way that you will eliminate the 19 percent rate of personal income tax for individuals engaged in one-man business, and thus - you believe - these entrepreneurs will set up companies, companies governed by commercial law? Is that the direction? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I certainly respect this and appeal to the government not to implement its proposals, which were announced by the Ministry of Finance, that a 19-percent linear tax rate should be abolished for single-member entrepreneurs. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for your answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u248	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! My question is addressed to Prime Minister Morawiecki. I wanted to ask you about the realization of the program, because when it comes to living + in this social sphere, so as not to tell the communist, i.e. building rents, we already know some pilot program. However, I am interested in this second form, such a more liberal, capitalal form, connected with stimulating Poles to save, with the provision of a housing savings premium for them. Whether this aspect of the housing+ programme is included in the budget, in what amount and how it would look, because I will admit that this type of activity inspires me much more than this pilot scheme, the housing+ programme, which is currently being shown and actually relies on the distribution of rental apartments. I'd like to know what amounts [[♪ The bell ♪]] and how they will be spent on the capital stimulation of the housing+ programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u250	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The company social benefit fund is frozen for six years in a row. Since 2012, the Civic Platform and the PSL have been doing this four years in a row, and now the second year in a row has been doing it by Law and Justice, and the amount is really huge, the amount that does not go to the most needy workers, because the social fund is aimed at people with the lowest incomes and their families. How does that work, Prime Minister, for a pro-social, family-friendly policy proclaimed by law and justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u252	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: Why spending on the Refugee Council is as much as 722,000. $7,000, then. more than this year, what is the purpose of this council in general, and why expenditure on the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland compared to the expenditure of the previous year is as much as 720 thousand. Evil? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u254	Thank you very much. We're done with the questions. I would like the floor of the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Development and Finance of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for all these questions and for many comments, because the budget law is of course such a special kind of law, which must be subjected to a very thorough examination and analysis, so that it is perfectly understandable. These are the most fundamental elements that I would like to comment on here, because most of the time, ladies and gentlemen, you have also referred to them, and they relate to the basic principles of the budget. So maybe I'll leave this parameter, which always arouses the greatest emotions, the greatest interest, and which is also the opposition's most frequently questioned, namely the budget deficit. First of all, when I hear about how the opposition today, especially the PO and the PSL, has reservations about the deficit, it really reminds me of the situation, as if a compulsive smoker with a cigarette in his mouth would urge me to quit smoking, [[Applause]] Because you've had a deficit of 7 out of 8 years that is far beyond what we have today. So, really, in this regard, they are at least Members of the Modern Party, Members of the Kukiz Party... [[Not the party.]] ...not the party, yes, Kukiz15 or the Free and Solidarnia Club, Law and Justice may speak, but not the PO and the PSL, because there is really no credibility here in that when we are talking about a deficit which at the time of the state of government was 7.9%, 7.5% in 2009 and 2010, in 2011 5% And actually, you barely made it to that 3%. Therefore, it cannot be explained for 8 years that there was a crisis in 2008. I'm sorry, but unfortunately this is not a good translation. We have a deficit of 2.9 and indeed it is very close to this limit of 3%, although I wanted to stress that France is 4.8 and there is no excessive deficit procedure, Finland is 3.3, Ireland had 4.7, but it is now falling below 4, Spain had 5.1 in 2015, a number of key countries having a deficit significantly exceeding 3% in total. I'm talking about this because in some words it sounded like it was some kind of end of the world, if some country boldly crossed that line 3.1. This is not the end of the world, although I would generally prefer to have a more balanced budgetary position in the perspective of 2019 2020, 2021, but we have inherited this situation, not another after eight years of rule of law and justice... [[Platforms.]] ... PO and PSL, and we need to get out of this slowly because, as you know, any sudden movement can be bad for the economy. The second basic element that you raised was debt. There's no way to draw those numbers in debt either. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of debt, in 2008 we entered with a debt of 511 billion, and at the end of the governments of PO and PSL the debt amounted to nearly 900 billion plus 160 billion from OFE, i.e. a trillion and forty-several billion. You can't fool it, it's just over 100% within 8 years. This is really debt that we have never seen before in the years 2000 to 2008 or in the years 90. There was no such increase in debt. You just can't interpret these numbers differently. We compare as comparable as possible to each other. So in this context, and this has aroused the most emotions here, so let me say two more sentences on this subject, our deficit is both valuable and percentage one of the lowest. In this context, when it comes to our debt growth of 59 billion compared to your growth, the base to the base, it is as if we have a deficit in the area of 130-135 billion, and we have 59, so let's really measure here the same measure and I think it is worth looking at it objectively. The third thing that has raised doubts here, and that, I admit, is, of course, a great task for us, is to seal the tax system. Indeed, especially the VAT mafia, VAT carousels, it is a nightmare in Poland. As for this, the politicians of the PO, PSL also agree. So I think that here some have been emotional, because there is no doubt that we are being robbed as a Polish country, as citizens by the VAT-Mafia. [[Applause]] Of course, there are many reasons for this. One of them is the inability of the Polish state to cope, because year after year these tax revenues in proportion to GDP decreased. So this is indeed a huge challenge for us. As more detailed questions have been raised, I would say here that we are planning, as part of the fuel package, to have an annual impact of more than 2.5 billion, i.e. about 200 and 210 million a month. We already see a positive impact of over 100 million in these months, i.e. after the implementation of some additional solutions - GPS on tankers, better border controls. I believe that this is an objective that is as realistic as possible, although of course very ambitious, and I agree that this 2.5 billion is extremely important to close this gap in tax revenue. The second huge part of closing this gap is VAT. Here the first package has already been carried out. Now, in the near future, a large VAT package will enter so that from 1 January 2017 all taxes, all tax rates and all VAT fraud mechanisms can be properly sealed. I don't want to get into the details, but it concerns, among other things. homogeneous products such as electronics, hard drives, inverters. These are issues that, like an economist or a man in the Ministry of Finance, he looks at certain charts and sees that suddenly month after month by 1000% , not by 100% , but about 1000% export is increasing, and everyone should think about it somehow, shouldn't they? While e.g. in January 2015 Poland became the export power of mobile phones from day to day... in January 2014, I apologize, and for 1.5 years, until July 2015, the government of PO-PSL did not react to this. Our calculations in the Ministry of Finance show today, now, ladies and gentlemen, that, as we calculate overly disproportionate, excessive, i.e. artificial, false, export of mobile phones from Poland since 2012, with this intensity in 2014 and 2015, it was a remark, unfortunately, that involved 20 billion fictitious exports to a huge extent, because after sealing this export returned to 100 million per month, not to 1 billion per month, and before that it was exports at 1 billion per month. Aren't we talking about a real seal here? Is it really that hard to look at? We already have some effects today, we're going to have even better results. I have now shown you on numbers that there is indeed no deeper reflection on this. And we have many such products on which we can see that the Polish state is actually losing money today. That's what this package is about. Since many Members and many Members have asked this question, I have given a little more detail here. Another important element is the gambling bill. Ladies and gentlemen, misunderstanding. We do not liberalize the gambling bill - there was such a formulation here, there was such concern - we seal the whole system and we will impose the obligation to register, approve any gambling machines, single-handed bandits, etc. We will also seal the gambling system over the Internet, just as the Italians and Danes did, we rely on these two main solutions. In 2017, the increase to the budget is to reach 23%. If I were to say what I'm afraid of, I'd say I'm not afraid of it at all. Actually, I think that here the growth will be higher to the budget and the potential is much higher than the 1720 million that we have in the game tax. Ladies and gentlemen, there was also a question about small and medium-sized enterprises, how the credit action is carried out, and in particular what the Polish state influences, i.e. through de minimis procedures and support by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for guaranteeing small and medium-sized enterprises. Well, I would like to say that since I took over this honorable office, the Minister of Development, there has been an increase in the de minimis guarantee alone by 27%. - it is still less than a year - for 10 months, because these are data at the end of August, while the increase in loans to small and medium-sized enterprises for this reason only, from the same type of product guaranteed by de minimis - by 27%. Previously, in the times of PO-PSL, these loans never grew at this rate. Now a very important thing - EU funds. Several people referred to it, so I would also like to give some numbers, because it's probably the hardest thing to argue with them. Firstly, at a time when we took up our offices, not only was the contracting was zero, but also the certification was zero in all EU programmes - ladies and gentlemen, zero or zero with rounding. Really only very small amounts have been used not within the meaning of spending. Let me remind you that the end of 2015, when we hit... when we took up our office, it was already 2 years of realization of the new perspective. You had time, ladies and gentlemen, almost 2 years, 2014 and 2015 and you didn't use it because I speak with full responsibility for the word that there weren't almost any projects in the drawers. So see the numbers in November and December. The so-called level. contracting, i.e. what is in the contracts, was close to zero: POIR, POIiŚ, POPC, Eastern Poland, rural development - in all key programs. Today it's 15% the entire programme, the entire budget of 2014.2020. In the meantime, we had to save at the same time 40 billion PLN at risk, as we have already reported in detail, no one questioned it, so I understand that you are in agreement with it. I am glad that at least there was no opposition here, because it was actually a very difficult process. It was connected, among others. with the construction of trains, completion of certain roads, railroads and practically today I can say that only less than 2 billion PLN are somehow in question there. But I'm also glad that we can save everything from the previous perspective, and as for the new one, it was, like I said, zero or 1%. , within the limits of statistical error, today is 15, and at the end of the year there will be much more than 15, but I prefer to talk about the facts that are today. Ladies and gentlemen, a few have questioned here. also the level of inflation that we are assuming for next year. This is not the level of inflation taken from the ceiling, but the deflation is already decreasing from 0.9 to 0.8 today, and the last reading of deflation was 0.5. There may still be positive inflation this year. No one can fully predict this, of course, but the analysis of the National Bank of Poland shows that today..., in December it is possible that it will be 0.5 on the plus... [[It was supposed to be 1.7.]] ...from 0.5 to the minus. It was supposed to be 1.7. Of course, I can only remind 2013 when PO-PSL was wrong about inflation, about GDP, about budget deficits, about VAT revenues... [[About everything.]] ... non-tax income. In all the possible parameters I've seen, there's been a very deep mistake. [[Applause]] So a horse with a row to the one who's never wrong. [[In the meantime, you've made a mistake too.]] I think inflation of 1.3 next year is as possible and worth... I think it's possible. Now there was a question about administration, about officials, mostly from Kukiz'15. Here I can say that in the Ministry of Development, which I took up in November, the employment rate is 10% today. smaller than he was. We try, there are no group redundancies or forced redundancies, but we do not fill vacancies after people leaving and Prime Minister Beata Szydło also ordered a review of the agencies and inspection of various bodies. There was a question here about research institutes. Prime Minister Gowin is working on the Institutes Act. It is precisely to make it possible to integrate these institutes, because we have taken over a situation that is actually a little weird. Some institutes persist e.g. from the rental property. We do not set up research institutes to maintain themselves exclusively - and such a business plan makes me think that they would still want to maintain themselves - from renting real estate, because in times of PO-PSL it was so that they remained from real estate and to whom it bothered. It bothers us. Research institutes should, of course, study, not live from real estate. Therefore, I very much agree that the integration of these institutes is appropriate in some areas and we will try to do so. I would just like to remind you whether I would like to ask you in the opposition benches to support our bill when we do it, because it is indeed a very deep and important part of the restructuring of the R &amp; D system. We have one hundred and twenty several research institutes and, let's say, 20 of them manage at level A, as we call it, which means different criteria by applying, doing well or very well. But there are a lot of things that need to be integrated around the way you proposed in your questions. We in our bill will try to ensure that this possibility is guaranteed, but we will see in what shape it will eventually pass. I agree that optimizing the work of institutes will lead to increased innovation, and this is one of the objectives of our government and our political camp. Then you questioned debt and debt management. Here I can say that the debt is on the one hand high, and on the other hand, looking at the countries of the European Union, one of the lower ones. One of your fellow Members also referred to the debt of Japan and the ownership of that debt. Since this is such a fundamental thing for the Polish economy and for the strength of the Polish state, I will stop for a moment, you will allow me. Well, the Member has probably searched for good data, because I have similar information in my head. He talked about 87% of Japanese debt in the hands of the Japanese, I remember data 92 or 93, but we should ask ourselves an even more important question: Is the country a net creditor or a net debtor? Here the Japanese are without a doubt the creditor of the rest of the world. The rest of the world owes them a little. On the other hand, economic development and economic development model, which Law..., which the Civic Platform, earlier governments for 25 years as if continued, led to the fact that today the total level of Polish debt towards foreign countries is 2200 billion. This is gross debt. Net debt is about 1350 billion. This is one of the highest debt ratios in the world and, of course, because I said that the net 66, that means that we're on the downside. The Japanese are on the plus by two thirds of their GDP, and we are on the minus by two thirds of our GDP, that is, ladies and gentlemen, there is no comparison with the Japanese. Ba, there's no comparison even with the Italians that we're feeling sorry for now, because they're probably about to face the next banking crisis, and they're going to be perturbing, but let's not feel too sorry for them, because they're creditors of the rest of the world, and we're indebted, as a result of this model of economic development, not another model of economic development. Of course, I would like this debt to be less, but everyone who deals with macro-, micro-economics, economics or economic mechanisms at all, understands very well that the rapid withdrawal of certain sums from economic development, from GDP, leads to recession. Therefore, we want to spread this process over the years and our so-called. The medium-term perspective that we have presented to the European Commission has been accepted by the European Commission as a path to achieving and reducing, in the future also a reduction of the budget deficit, which would be safe from the point of view of economic growth and, on the other hand, gave us the opportunity to reduce debt dependency, because we all agree that in the long term we would certainly like to be more and more creditors of the world. Some of the countries referred to exports, how exports grew, how they would grow next year. We're assuming a 5% increase in the budget carefully. , import at about 6,8 if I remember correctly, within these limits. This is a cautious growth after several years of strong export growth, and it will indeed be, we hope, one of the important elements of economic growth, and this is the only way we want to promote exports, because only in this way... This is one of the main ways in which we can reduce the negative international currency position, the one that makes us debtors to the rest of the world or to several countries in particular. Among the many important questions that you have addressed to us was the question of funding for education. Education funding primarily counts in grants in such a way that they are proportional to the number of teachers and translate into the number of pupils. As we will look at it, which is again comparing very comparable sizes, we pass on more of these measures, including the subsidy passed on to schools for six-year-olds who are studying or staying in kindergarten, but are already starting this stage of education, will be at a higher level than passed on to a pre-school child, this is at the level of about 1300 PLN, and a little lower than for a school child - at the level of 5100 or 5120 PLN. Here it will be the level between, we are working to make it a really noticeable position, in such a way that it helps in the education of six-year-olds, so that it is really possible to enter gently afterwards into the school stage. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you again for all your comments. I believe that this budget is a secure budget, it is a stable budget, it is a growth budget, it is a budget that does not hamper our development opportunities. There was a question here about the Regional Development Act, Art. 20a. For the next years, we're gonna do exactly 301 million. This is in cooperation with local authorities, which have specific types of local investment where they can apply for funding from this budget. We're using more resources than we've ever had before. Similarly, when it comes to the question of investment funds. We attract, as you can see, with great success, foreign investments, so it is difficult to talk about the lack of credibility of our country from an investment point of view, since such priority, first-rate, truth, brands come to us, such as Mercedes or new LG investments, new investments by Toyota and many others that are easy to notice. Central European countries devote some resources to attracting such investments. We are also continuing the programme by 2020 with funds specifically earmarked for these investments, because we believe that we are really attracting technologies in this way. But note, we do not attract all investments to Poland, only those that have the highest value of technology, the highest transfer of know-how, because we believe that then co-operatives will learn the most and the most we can gain as a Polish economy. So we're not just looking at created jobs, and we're not paying for it, we're mainly looking at attracting new technologies. As a curiosity, I will say that with these investments which we have so far been successful, the main point of the discussion was the qualified staff and the programme of Minister Anna Zalewska revitalizing vocational education, technical education, which 16, 17 years ago we closed unnecessarily and prematurely in Poland or significantly limited. High Izbo, summing up, I look at this budget with optimism, it is a budget of huge tasks, but it is also a budget of hope for Poles because it is impossible to cover with your critical voices, which of course you have the right to, that so far we had on the one hand the development of polarizing and diffusion, we had a dissection where the elites boasted and enjoyed indicators, enjoyed GDP growth, and, on the other hand, people, families, were in such a situation that 2 They voted on their feet and left because they lacked a job, lacked a decent job, and the family lacked the means to make ends meet. So, regardless of these minor pinches for which I thank you, regarding what the item is coming from, right, in the budget, if there is a deficit, it can be said by agreement that all items must be financed in some way, partly from the deficit, but which item is financed is, of course, a completely different issue. We haven't had a deficit situation in 27 years, so we've always had to issue extra bonds, with one exception, when you, today's PO-PSL opposition, have consumed 160 billion from OFE, and we here are not going to do it, we just want to give it to people. There was also a question about OFE, so that's what I'm referring to in this case. I am very proud that we have such a great challenge to earn by sealing the system and the good, high quality of economic growth these thirty-two billion. Yeah, we've invested 32 and 33 billion extra, that's all the senior expenses, plus 500 plus, various family allowances, social allowances, programs, continuation, enlargement. This is our great commitment to the Poles that we are fulfilling, and we believe that this is very much stabilising the social situation. This means that inequalities are decreasing, and precisely today's institutions that deal with the economy, the most famous in the world, the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank, recall the need to reduce inequalities. A week ago, I had many, many talks in Washington, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund. There, our program was praised as a program that reduces inequalities. We are very focused on social activities, but of course we can always come up with further elements of social order and we can also wish for something else, while we are responsible, we are returning with the retirement age, we are allocating 500+ and a number of other additions, but we are also saying now that the resources for this will not come from increasing taxes, as someone here has said. Of course, because of the European Union directives, some fees must go up, some institutions must be reconstructed, we must create. Ladies and gentlemen, this is because, as you all know here in this House, we must exercise European law and 73% economic legislation affects us precisely from the European Union. Therefore, I ask you to keep this measure, because we are trying to limit any increases that may or may need to take place in connection with the various normative acts that affect us. So it's a budget of hope, it's a budget of economic growth, but it's also a sustainable budget, economic stability, financial stability. I am convinced that we will be able to deal with this budget, and just as you questioned last year if we will be able to make these changes this year, so next year we will meet in the same place and show you, we will show the High House that we have managed to secure everything very well, and in particular that we have led to healthy economic growth, which serves Poland and serves Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u256	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I now invite the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Kazimierz Smolinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The Prime Minister answered questions on a macro scale, and you will allow us to move on to specific answers related to the questions of your Members. Allow me to answer questions about the operation of the Ministry of Infrastructure. There were some questions about the new MdM program. This is basically the National Housing Programme, under which the M+ programme is only part of this programme and includes construction on the State Treasury land, local land. I think that this should be addressed both by Mrs Hennig-Kloska and Mr Wójcikowski. Mrs Kloska said that the programme is uncompetitive because it will offer similar conditions to those on the market. Apparently, she did not get to know both the National Housing Programme and the information that is available on the market, which we provide to you very often in the media, but also in the interpellations. I have already signed a dozen if not dozens of such answers, in which it has been clearly stated that under the scheme, housing + rental apartments with an option to access property will have competitive rental prices on the market. We are talking about amounts from 10 PLN to 20 PLN. These are indicative prices, because if in Warsaw we are talking about 20 PLN, this is, let's say, almost half of the value of average market prices. In smaller towns, not always 10 PLN will be competitive, but we assume that if the price of building this apartment is less than 2.5 thousand. zł, and such examples are already there, recently I even talked about the price of 1950 zł just building the apartment, then of course this rent will be lower. In a given village, in those smaller towns where there are no apartments, it is cheaper to rent employees, equipment, everything is cheaper, so the construction price will be lower and therefore the rent will be lower, because generally we assume that the profit margin on all the operations that we will offer under this program will be small, therefore the apartment will be competitive. Mr Wójcikowski said that rent was a socialist idea. Let me not agree with you here, because it is Poland that is leaving these countries of old Europe, where rental apartments are, let's say, 48 or 50%. Germany up to a maximum of 70% in some countries of Europe, this old Western Europe, the old Union, while in Poland we have more than 80% property, and in the free market we can only rent in the range of 4 and 5%. So that's the problem that we're an inefficient society, which all the indicators indicate, and we all want property. That's why we want to offer the public cheap rental apartments, possibly with an option to claim property, that people do not have to indebt and get attached to this apartment in connection with the loan, only they will be able to buy this property for a period of, say, up to 30 years, with the possibility to terminate this agreement or change their place of residence at the same time - if I find an apartment in another town in the same system, I can move there. We want to ensure that, as in Western Europe, society is mobile. So this is absolutely false information. The issue of redemption and saving. In the budget we do not plan any funds for this, because, as we have said, the entire programme is extra-budget, apart from funds from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and from companies, because, as in other funds or scientific institutes referred to here, in Poland we have dozens of companies that are also engaged in construction or have land and these land for decades are not used, grow, are completely unused. So this is the contribution of the Polish state to the national housing program. It's a property, it's untapped, we want to use it as a contribution. Lands can be sold at the same time, those that are not suitable for construction or have very good locations, because also in the city centers, even in the center of Warsaw, we also have parcels of several hectares. It's a shame to build apartments that aren't supposed to be superlofts or apartments. That's why we can sell such land, and for that in a less favorable location, and still good, because there must be a location, we can buy a lot more land or with this money build other apartments. Lands are also such a financial leverage that you can make commitments to, etc., and I will not be doing a lecture here. Like saving, as I have said many times, we want to introduce this system in 2018. Buffs would have been paid since 2019. So here's another request that you do not mislead the public that the government of Mrs. Beata Szydło, the Government of Law and Justice, is abolishing the programme of living for young people. This programme shall continue in accordance with what the previous government has decided. If a thermomodernization program has been established and for renovations that do not have time space, we continue it, it was a good program and we will continue it, as well as support for social construction. So the good programs continue. This programme was a bad programme from the beginning, we believe, but because it was established by 2018 and under this programme many young people are planning their future, so we do not finish it sooner, we just end it as planned. These are your irresponsible behaviors, saying that the PiS is shutting down the program, leading to a panic on the market. Those young people who wanted to buy this apartment later all of a sudden threw themselves at this show, and that's why there's such an uproar right now. There's never been one in the previous years. As many people as they put together... It wasn't usually even used. And that's also not true, that's 250,000. These apartments were built. Let me use the statistics: 73 466 applications were submitted, 72 128 loans were granted, so not all of these loans were received. And here is a very dangerous phenomenon: 56.4% loans received by single persons, only 19% - marriage with children, so it's not true what you said you were stimulating family development. As I said, in 56% of these apartments were bought by single persons, only a few percent by families of many children, so absolutely this program did not prefer marriages with children or families of many children. A number of questions concerned road and rail infrastructure resources. Here Members of the Boat, Hopper, Truskolas asked about the means. The government said that these funds would increase, and that was questioned. I'd like to quote the facts. Road infrastructure: in 2016 - PLN 3146 million, plan for 2017 - 4229 million, more than 1083 million growth, that is almost 34 percent increase compared to 2016. Railway infrastructure: 2016 - 3686 million, proposed in the budget for 2017, 4684 million, i.e. 127% 27 percent increase. So that the government promised growth and it is very significant - 34% in road infrastructure, 27% in the railway infrastructure. It is not true that we are reducing resources for local roads. There was 800 million, we're still maintaining this amount of funding. Mr Noblet asked about the way in which the National Road Fund's debt was repaid. Indeed, debt is very high, at the moment it is 66 billion, until the end of the EU perspective foreseen in the national road construction programme will be more than 100 billion. But, so far, there are two sources of funding - the first is revenue from the fuel levy, the second is national tolls. We increase, and this was the assumption from the beginning, the number of roads covered by tolls - it is truck transport. We want to keep increasing it so the tire doesn't run off the toll roads, off the highways. We still have, when it comes to the so-called. availability of infrastructure, a certain inequality: accessibility to railways is more expensive than access to roads, and thus we have one of the worst structures in terms of transport or use of transport. Over 80% These are roads, circular transport, a dozen percent it's rail transport, a few percent that's air transport and 0.4% inland waterways. Here, the European Union is also acting towards us and obliges us to improve this. So we need to increase accessibility to the railways, improve this, which is why so much money, more than 66 billion, will be spent on the railways. And here another correction also, because both Mrs Wielichowska and... maybe mostly Mrs Wielichowska, said that we have a halt to tenders, a complete suspension of tenders, no tenders for rail. That's not true. This year there are already 12 proceedings, which are about to end with tenders, seven more are being conducted, a total of 12, almost 13 billion PLN. Over 25 billion PLN is planned for next year as part of the tenders. As far as roads are concerned, this year we have 11 tenders for almost 10 billion. We have 29 billion in tenders at all. 51 billion are roads under construction, so to speak, the continuation of previous tasks, 20 billion are already this year. In total, we already have 80 billion at the stage of execution or tender in terms of roads. As you know, spending limit Here, it's 107 billion. The situation is that the previous government left us a national road construction programme with a plan of almost 200 billion, and in the budget there are only 107 billion PLN to be spent. I think that's all the questions that... [[Do you think about the railroads?]] For the railroad, as I said, we have 4 billion. As far as the "Tiry on the track" programme is concerned, this has obviously been discussed for 27 years. At the moment, the government is aware that it is determined that we need to develop intermodal transport. It is about using both road transport, rail transport and inland transport, because here we have the penultimate place in Europe - as I said, 0.4% of transport takes place on inland roads, only the Czech Republic has a worse indicator, but there is nothing to boast about. After all, Poland has one of the largest companies in the field of inland transport, it carries out transport in Germany, is ready to do so in Poland, but we have to make our roads more expensive, make them available. There is a very large programme related to the pavement of inland waterways, Oder here is the easiest thing, because there are some negligence there, not even restored to the state before the last flood. [[Vistula, too.]] Wisła - we want to make it from Warsaw to Gdańsk and introduce this IV, third class of sailing. You will remember that there is a danger here - despite the great work related to the dam in Włocławek, there is a danger caused primarily by the fact that behind the dam from the north there is too low water level, so there is a need to build another dam. In Świewa, the works are starting now, ENERGA is starting to build another power plant there, i.e. dams above all and another power plant to raise water levels. [[Applause]] Then the water level will rise from the north side and the dam in Włocławek will not be threatened, because it is actually technically in danger today. If we're talking about cascading, we're also accused of going back to the Game times. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not going back to Game times. Cascading the Vistula - this idea was created in the 20s, in the years... [[Very good.]] ... II of the Republic of Poland, the cascade of the Vistula was already foreseen. So we're going back to this idea, and we want to do this cascade. At the moment there are more modern methods, you don't need such expensive and heavy cascades to build It's like it used to be. So that in this respect we will also have plans, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping is doing this. There are real plans, so that we will carry it out as well. I think I answered all the questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u258	Thank you very much, Minister. I now invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Marzenna Drab. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Allow me to answer the two questions asked jointly and separately. Mrs Augustyn asked about the "Safe+' programme - whether it is continued and to what extent the funds are earmarked for this purpose. So, ladies and gentlemen, the "Safe+" programme is, of course, being implemented, the implementation of this programme is planned for the years 2015 to 2018. In 2015, the amount allocated to this programme amounted to PLN 15 million and it was financed from Reserve No 52 - increasing the availability of pre-school education - while in 2016 funds of PLN 20 million were allocated for this purpose. Next year, 20 million are also planned for this purpose in the draft budget law. Of course, these funds will come - this is the case this year and so will be also in the future - from the special reserve. 36. With regard to a friendly and safe school, of course, it was programmes implemented in the period 2014/2016, in those years, and they just ended. Now, with regard to the questions of Mrs Lubnauer and Mrs Shumilas, I would like to answer these questions together, because Mrs Lubnauer's question was very broad and the part that Mrs Shumilas asked is in this broader context. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lubnauer's question concerned the costs of education reform, what we want to cover, how we want to finance it, while Mrs Szumilas asked for a reduction in pre-school grants of 352 million, teachers' salaries, 1.3, valorisation and new branches at the school, for which Minister Zalewska said it would increase. I would first of all like to reassure you and ensure that the reform prepared by the Ministry of National Education is discussed, prepared and, above all, counted. Of course, the rationalisation of expenditure and the reasonable spending of public funds are the basis of our work. I realize that not everyone accepts that this is how you approach public money, but this is how we do it. We also want to make it clear that education reform cannot be used to pump the costs to carry out this reform - that is, we rationalise and optimise it. In a moment, I will show you how we want to carry out this reform. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's educational subsidy is planned to amount to 41 909 536 thousand. PLN and it is larger than last year by 1%, i.e. by 412 584 thousand. The decision that six-year-olds will not be required to go to the first grade, i.e. to raise the school age of children to 7 years, has reduced the number of tasks on the part of local governments and, since there is a reduction, there should be a reduction in the education subsidy charged to one student. We are open to parents' decisions, support them and respect them. Most parents have decided that children will stay in kindergarten until they are 7 years old and will be obliged to do their schooling in the first grade. Therefore - and this is a bow towards local governments - in order to support local governments in these tasks, we decided to increase the funds passed on to the children who implemented this school education in kindergartens. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to children who are in kindergarten, this grant was much smaller. We thought that the grant had been converted into a subsidy and raised to 4300. Ladies and gentlemen, this procedure, which I mentioned earlier, unsubstantiated preschool education of six-year-olds, has left 1 billion 700 in the budget so-called. subsidies. These are the money that we should really pay back to the budget, while this money remained in our MEN budget and we could use it to finance tasks - these will also be new tasks - which will also serve to support the reform, at the stage of preparation which we are at the moment. So, ladies and gentlemen, 1 billion 700 are just the extra financial resources left unconventional of a six-year-old out of school. If we're talking about this amount and this subsidy, we have these new tasks. 1 billion 400 is precisely the result and effect of raising up to 4300 children's subsidies to those six-year-olds who make this education in kindergarten. 418 million is the valorisation of teachers' salaries by a rate of 1.3. Let me remind you that there hasn't been any valorization in a few years, let alone a raise. If we are talking about an increase, then of course everything cannot be done immediately, we are in the process of analyzing the situation, but this will also be the subject of the work of the working group, which was appointed by Minister Zalewska. There we will talk, among others. About teachers' wages. I would like to remind you that the reform is spread over several years, and it does not apply only to 1 year. Reduce the scope of educational tasks due to the increase in school age. Here we are thinking of a small yearbook in Class I, because some children went to school when they were 6 years old, some stayed in kindergarten, and some parents made the decision to repeat the first year. For this purpose, we've secured 0.5. billion PLN. 53 million is the amount which results from a reduction in the recruitment of young and adult polycean schools. There is simply a observed downward trend. This is, of course, respect, but all indications are that it will be less, that we will not have to allocate so much for this purpose. The reduction of the subsidy by 5.4 million results from the transfer of several schools to the Minister of Agriculture, so it is a matter of exclusion as if from the financing of the educational subsidy of this task. 8 million - this is a new way of implementing professional advice. Here we are scheduled for 10 hours for classes VII and VIII in a year and 10 hours in a full cycle for upper secondary schools plus 90 hours at the director's disposal throughout the school cycle. Ladies and gentlemen, from this brief calculation we have the effect that, once these new tasks have been carried out, it still remains within the framework of this kind of saved or still under the responsibility of the Minister of National Education of PLN 331 million and they can be allocated, and will certainly be devoted, to new tasks related to the change of educational system. We think it could be the organization of the studio, the employment. We have such a cautious estimate - 16 million. This is the result of a reduction in funding for delivering pupils in 2017, because today we are talking about this year and about this budget. I ask you, as regards the reduction in the grant that Minister and Mr Shumilas were talking about, this is not a reduction in the grant for kindergarten, it is merely a transfer of this grant to the subsidy and an additional contribution to obtain this amount of 4300. As for the pre-school branches - Mrs Shumilas asked this - I think it was probably the schools, because we are talking about them and we are informing them about them. And, ladies and gentlemen, in the 2017/2018 school year, the current sixth grade of primary schools will become the seventh grade of primary schools. In these classes there are 352 thousand students. children in 18,000. troops. At middle-sized primary school, this is an indicator of 19.5, and if children had gone to junior high school in the first grade, the average would have been 22.5. There would be 15,6,000. branches, so de facto it would be less by 2.4. However, since there will be no more recruitment for the first grade of junior high school, in fact there will be an increase of this number, i.e. 2400 branches will be more, which means that it can be theoretically said that in the 2017/2018 school year there will be a demand for 3.9 thousand. teachers to teach already in these new schools, in new types of schools. I would like to mention the reform and the indication of the sources of funding, in addition to this first information, where I have shown how the funds that remain available under the subsidy will be distributed, and I would like to point out where local authorities can apply for additional funds. Among other things, such a source of financing for investments and equipment, because most often we hear from those who ask how the whole responsibility and financing of the reform into local governments will be transferred, will be a special reserve 45. That's 120 million. This is a reserve that is and can be used to fund JST's own tasks. Another reserve, reserve 81, is a general reserve - there is also 120 million - which can also be used for this purpose. The Ministry also has a special-purpose reserve of PLN 168 million, where support can also be applied for. But we must not forget that, apart from national resources and those in the budget, we also have European resources at our disposal. These European funds in the vast majority are placed in the RPO, i.e. in regional operational programmes, and have them at the hands of the Marshals of Voivodships. And I have some important information here. In the RPO in all 16 voivodships is located 930 757 803 EUR. This is over PLN 30 billion. That's the money that's in the marshals. Local authorities can also apply for them. As far as the use of EU funds is concerned, I will say yes. We're running a 2-year delay. Maybe on December 19th I signed the first announcement of the contest for PLN 2.5 million with actually zero involvement. So it shows how much work you had to put in to try to make up for the lost time. And today, when it comes to the Ministry of National Education - because we are talking about this budget - we have use, contract at about 15% . As far as marshals are concerned, I would like to say here that on average the marshals have 6% used. - it's just dramaticly low. However, there are 8 voivodships where measures between 2 and 3% are involved. So we're talking about this, too, please, we want to work together to make use of this money. But this is also money for JST, among other things, to invest, to expand schools, to strengthen the system and to all the tasks that will be on the part of local governments in the framework of the reform under preparation. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of last year we heard such information that actually the Sejm is working nights and Members are very busy with work. There was great indignation and outrage. I just want to show that there was such a very important bill in our department to prepare, it was about finishing it and accepting it by the end of the year. This is an Integrated Qualifications System. Ladies and gentlemen, if we did not really involve Members and their work probably by late evening hours, we would lose PLN 2 billion. So I think this is also the kind of information I would like to give you in order to make it clear that we really need to do everything in order to implement and spend EU funds, first of all spending it on realization with sense. I am very pleased that the timetable for the introduction of education reform is adopted and implemented, because these things that I have just said and those places where we can benefit from the funding are ideal for this reform to be carried out, because the new perspective is, as it were, imposed on the period of education reform. I think this should calm you down and make sure we're on top of it, we've got it counted, we've got it analyzed, and the money is secured for school reform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u260	Thank you very much, Minister. I now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Jack Bogucki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer questions which are related to the operation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. The first question concerned the merger of inspections. I would like to inform the High House that since July the draft legislation on food safety inspections has been available not only on the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture, but is available on the pages of the Government Legislative Centre. It is in the process of consulting, agreeing and in accordance with this draft, the merger of inspections would take place from 1 January 2018. As regards the question about the crop insurance system, we would really like 2017 to become a breakthrough year in crop insurance. So far less than PLN 200 million have been allocated, in the last year, PLN 176 million for agricultural insurance. We have increased the amount of aid for these insurances in the draft state budget to PLN 917 million, so almost five times the amount which this year is higher than last year, because it amounts to more than PLN 200 million, so that the increase is multiple. So there is a chance that Polish farmers will receive support in insurance and that insurance companies will be interested in presenting an offer that will be available to Polish farmers. Let me remind you that already this year we have increased from 50 to 65% the level of support for agricultural insurance for farmers for a year... In Parliament there is a government bill which is in the process of drawing up. It introduces package insurance and further improves the availability of insurance for Polish farmers. One of the questions also concerned institutes active in the field of agriculture. Although the Prime Minister has already answered this question, I would just like to inform you that the Ministry of Agriculture is conducting intensive analyses of the activities of institutes that work for agriculture. And these analyses are designed to improve the effectiveness of existing research. We would like to see more spending on science, and the result is already an increase in expenditure in the 2017 budget from 52 this year to 80 million in R &amp; D, because both Polish agriculture and the agri-food industry are constantly signaling the need for stronger scientific support for the agricultural sector, and of course this is to be done by organisational changes concerning agricultural institutes. In conclusion, I would also like to inform the High House that agriculture and rural development and agricultural markets in 2017 are planned to have an amount of 9.7 billion from the national budget compared to 8.4 billion in the current year, i.e. an increase of more than 15%. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u262	Thank you very much, Minister. And finally, the last speaker will be the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Hanna Majszczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Finally, I would like to address a few specific questions that ladies and gentlemen have asked during the debate, questions about the 2017 budget law and about the budget law. With regard to e.g. to Mr Masłowski's question, why the expenditure of the Sejm and the Senate so increases, I would like to point out that according to the Public Finance Act, these two entities themselves construct their own budget, which is put into such size and construction as it is submitted by both the Sejm and the Senate. Only the High House can verify the amounts planned and, if they are incompatible with the assumptions made in the Budget Act for 2017, part of the appropriations or other amounts may, of course, be allocated to other objectives relating to the implementation of tasks for which, in accordance with the substantive law, budgetary resources may be spent. Mrs Tokarska asked for a large reserve for funding by the National Election Office for statutory election and referendum tasks. Indeed, this amount amounts to more than PLN 100 million. For 2017 there are no national elections envisaged, but according to the electoral and referendum rules referendums may be created a little according to other... may be called up, and voting on topics which are designated for referendums are defined in a different way than elections, and therefore in principle every year such referendum theoretically, I stress: theoretically, it may appear, so every year, also in previous years, a certain financial envelope is secured. In addition, of course, there are always, every year, additional references to the High Chambers, supplementary elections, excuse me, or supplementary elections in local government units, which is why funds for this purpose are always secured under special provisions for the following financial years. Mr Cichoń has asked a question about dairy bars, and this issue has also been addressed in the statements of other Member States. I would just like to stress here that, although the amount for dairy bars is not directly visible in the act, it is planned in the act for 2017. The fact that it is not visible does not mean that the funds for this purpose are withdrawn or that there has been any change in the financing of dairy bars. The appropriations for this purpose are provided for in the special-purpose reserve 44. The description of the special reserve provided to the High House, including the description of the reserve 44, indicates that the resources for this purpose are planned in the special reserve and that their inclusion in the special reserve will allow for a more flexible use of these resources, as over the past years the use of the planned funds has been very different. Of course, if they were not used - and their use depends on the applications submitted by the beneficiaries of these grants, while complying with the conditions laid down in the Regulation - they would simply have to be blocked, they cannot be used for other purposes. If they are already in the special reserve, they can be used in other situations when we say e.g. to change the allocation of part of the resources, to redirect this stream of money to other tasks carried out by the State. Mr Małecki asked about the fuel package, its implementation, as well as the effects planned for its introduction. This package is already working and we see its first effects for 2017, as the Member also asked. Impacts of PLN 2.5 billion, of course in plus, were planned for the implementation of such solutions, those contained in this fuel package. Mr Bielecki asked about the so-called savings. KAS, the planned reform in the field of KAS. Of course, in 2017, when this structure is to be created, these savings cannot be seen directly, because this is mainly due to the reorganization of the fiscal and customs equipment, as well as the tax control offices, which will allow for more effective implementation of the tasks imposed on the fiscal apparatus, connected with, among others. with tax collection and also with better organisation of controls and typing of entities for control. The expected effects of changes in these organisational solutions, such already financial ones, are expected in a different perspective, in the longer term, starting in 2018, where these impacts are estimated between PLN 2.5 billion and PLN 4 billion. One of my fellow Members, when asking questions, pointed out that spending on the tax administration was increasing by PLN 40 million and asked where this amount was coming from. I would like to point out that there are about 60,000 employees in the tax camera. persons, considering of course both tax chambers, tax offices, customs offices, customs offices, tax offices. As with all the other budget units for the treasury staff, an increase of 1,3% of the remuneration fund has also been planned in the 2017 budget. Thus, as in any other budgetary unit, these increases are linked precisely to these changes planned in terms of remuneration. Mr Ajchler and Mr Miazga asked whether the 2017 budget had secured the means for implementing the changes that have taken place in the field of hunting law. Here, as I understand it, it was about securing funds for the Compensation Fund. Such measures were not planned, I was talking about it, discussing assumptions and justification for so-called. a budget law. The Act on the Around Budget Entry into force of these changes in the field of Hunting Law, including in the field of the Compensation Fund, has been postponed to 2018. With regard to the question of not too large, as I believe it has been stated, funds for the RIO or insufficient resources for the operation of regional accounting chambers have also been increased in this respect, increased salaries, increased funds for the remuneration fund, as for the rest of the budgetary units, i.e. an increase in the remuneration fund by 1,3%. I would just like to point out that, in the case of regional accounting chambers, in so far as the entire budgetary sphere has been frozen by the payroll fund over the last few years, both in 2013 and in 2015 an increase in the remuneration fund has been made accordingly. With regard to the question asked by Mrs Lubnauer concerning the financial possibilities for local government units to co-finance in the coming years and, as the Member pointed out, the debts of these entities, it is worth noting here that the long-term financial forecast of local government units results from a decline in debt. But this is one issue, and the other is that the government's efforts to increase budget revenue will also have a direct shift towards local government units, to the increase in the income of these units, because one source of income of local government units is the respective shares in both personal income tax and corporate income tax, hence the increased revenue, increased downloadability and efficiency of the operation will also affect the revenue of local government units. Thank you very much. With regard to questions that we have not been able to answer during today's debate, we will certainly answer in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u264	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The discussion requested that the draft laws contained in prints 881 and 917 be rejected at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws, - amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 927 and 918 respectively. Therefore, on the basis of Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Marshals of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. I propose that in discussions on these items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. How about three minutes? Five minutes. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers (prints No 850 and 885). I ask Mr Jan Duda to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers, print No 850. The Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers aims to raise to the minimum the remuneration of the amount determining the possibility to be insured in KRUS at the request of the insured person of the previous 50% minimum remuneration. This solution is consistent with the provisions of the Social Security Office on compulsory termination of contracts, where there are several of them, in addition to the amount of the lowest remuneration. This is an amendment to Article. Paragraph 56 1 of the Act of 20 December 1990 on social security for farmers, which is replaced by the following: The second amendment concerns Article. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The third amendment is the amendment of Article. 83 - it will allow the free allocation of the administrative fund. This is also the implementation of the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit proposals. Art. 2 and 3 are transitional and final provisions. On 20 September 2016, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the draft to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading. On 4 October, the joint committees, following a public hearing and first reading, following a vote of 35 for, 11 against, gave a positive opinion on the draft submitted. The committee's report is contained in print No 885. Well, here you go. The High Chamber, on behalf of the Joint Committees, on the adoption of the draft in print No 885. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u266	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the cups and wheels. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Duda will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. You've actually already performed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary bill amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers, print No 850. The draft law amending the Act on social insurance for farmers aims to increase to a minimum the amount of the possibility to be insured, at the request of the farmer, in the KRUS where the person concerned is covered by ordinary social insurance from the titles of contracts: agency, contract of order or other contract for the provision of services to which, in accordance with the Civil Code, the provisions concerning orders or the performance of functions in the Supervisory Board for remuneration apply. Currently, the farmer or the household may, on application, be covered by social insurance for farmers despite being covered by the general scheme, provided that the remuneration for non-agricultural activities does not exceed 50% the minimum remuneration in the monthly settlement. After this amount has been exceeded, the farmer or the householder shall be subject to double compulsory insurance in the Social Insurance Institution and voluntary insurance in the KRUS. The amount of the lowest remuneration in the universal insurance scheme is the limit amount to which there is an obligation to add together revenues from different sources for the purpose of their compulsory contribution to the Social Security Office. It is therefore appropriate for the farmer to be insured in KRUS up to the minimum wage and only after it has been exceeded will he be insured in KRUS voluntarily upon request. Another area that regulates the proposed bill is the employment of employees in management positions in the organizational cells of the cashier's headquarters, regional branches and field offices. The managers and their alternates shall be appointed and dismissed and the other staff employed under the employment contract. This amendment is intended to enable the President to conduct a rational and effective HR policy in individual KRUS units. It is clear that the director or manager responsible for the operation of his subordinate unit must be able to select his deputy freely. It is therefore necessary to regulate this issue legally in order not to leave room for very different interpretations concerning the taking up of the role of deputies. The third amendment concerns the financial economy of the cash register. It allows free funds of the administrative fund to be placed in bank accounts. This is also the fulfilment of post-control requests, as I mentioned earlier, of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The principle of sound financial management should be a fundamental principle in each budgetary institution and is absolutely supported by law and justice. With regard to the article. 2 the Law and Justice Club presents an amendment which sets out the time to issue implementing rules, i.e. 6 months after the entry into force of the Act. This is Amendment 1. Amendment 2. Art. 3 of the proposed law is replaced by the following: Labour relations of employees employed since the entry into force of this Act in the positions of deputy head of organisational cells in headquarters, regional branches and field offices, and heads of regional branches and their deputies, head of field offices and their deputies referred to in Article. 60 Law referred to in Article. 1, in the wording of this Act, become labour relations on the basis of an appointment within the meaning of the Labour Code of 26 June 1974. Amendment 3. After the article. The following Article shall be inserted: 4 in the same wording as Article. 3 in the submitted project. In conclusion, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the draft law submitted by the group of Members on the amendment of the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers, print No 850, together with the amendments tabled, and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u268	Thank you very much. Now Mr Rajmund Miller on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform in relation to the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers, prints No 850 and 885. The draft law amending the Act on social insurance for farmers aims to increase to a minimum the amount of social insurance for farmers, on request, in the event that the person concerned is covered by ordinary social insurance under an agency contract or contract or other contract for the provision of services to which, in accordance with the Civil Code, the provisions relating to the order or the performance of functions in the Supervisory Board for remuneration apply. High Sejm, this record is a continuation of the recording that was introduced by the Civic Platform. The purpose of this provision was to activate farmers and to enable them to earn outside agricultural activities so that they could be insured both in the CSO and in the CRUs. Today, this change only changes the rate that was anticipated from 50% to the minimum wage. The Civic Platform will support this provision. On the other hand, the amendment to the article. 60, which you have not said, unfortunately, is due to the sloppy preparation of the Minister of Agriculture's regulation. This was because the poor records drawn up by the Minister for Agriculture in relation to the status of KRUS resulted in numerous actions before the courts of persons released at KRUS, which involved the possibility of paying high compensation to these workers. This change was necessary as regards the legislative provisions, but unfortunately it is the result of the PiS policy, so-called. It's a good change. It is the result of a policy in which people who have worked in the KRUS have been removed, not because of political affiliation, not because of their views, but because the next legions of Pisiewicz are waiting for their positions to be given to themselves. High Seym, let me quote the data. In recent years 80 people from management positions, including 15 regional directors and 73 field managers, have been recalled from the KRUS, not due to material deficiencies, not because of the wrong work, but because of what I said, the terrible momentum of the PiS to take up posts and give posts to people of its own party. I quote to you a letter from the farmer: What is happening is not a good change. People with years of experience have been expelled, and people who do not know the issues come. They'll have to study for a few years before they reach the level of knowledge of their predecessors. What is the purpose of these changes? If they only serve to introduce people from the PiS into the institution, it is unfortunately not a good change. At the institution where I am insured, the manager was expelled after 22 years of work, a man who knew all the issues: from insurance through all benefits with pensions and pensions. I have participated many times in the training of farmers organised by the KRUS. This manager answered all our questions, explained to the man exactly what was going on, respected the farmer, always at any time of office you could go to him, talk to him, ask questions. There's a new manager now. You can't get to it, you have to date, and when I got to it, it turns out that I know more about how to apply for retirement than he does. What were those changes for? I also wonder where these people will find a job - they are not young - how they worked more than 20 years in KRUS and they were thrown out like old, worn shoes. Ladies and gentlemen, this is one example. Let me give you a literal example from the Krasnegostaw. The head of the local KRUS facility was the daughter of the PiS messenger, and the other daughter became the head of the horse stud. Will it be such changes and results as at the White Podlaski Stud or elsewhere? It's not a good policy. We will not vote in favour of this action of the PiS. As regards the remaining amendments to the Act, these are the changes that implement the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit proposals. These changes are right, because the president of the CRUS, the people who run this facility, are responsible for the finances and they will be responsible for what these finances allocate to and place them. So much for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u270	Thank you. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz Club15, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on the amendment of the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers regulates staff matters in the Social Insurance Agricultural Fund, clarifying the structure of this entity and allowing for a uniform interpretation of the provisions in question. According to this proposal, the director of the field departments and their deputies and the managers of the field offices and their deputies shall be appointed and dismissed by the President of the KRUS. The Act clarifies the issues relating to the financial economy of the KRUS, indicating that the Regulation of the Minister of Agriculture will also specify the way in which the free resources of the administrative fund are to be allocated, which makes it possible to comply with the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber as a result of the inspection carried out in 2015. This law introduces a significant amendment to the wording of Article. 5b Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. This provision allows insurance in KRUS where a farmer or a householder is covered by social insurance other than under the Act on social insurance for farmers by virtue of an agency contract, contract or other contract for the provision of services or by appointment to the supervisory board. Until now, in order to remain insured in KRUS, income from other activities could not exceed half the minimum wage. The revised adjustment increases this amount, indicating that revenue from other activities must not exceed an amount equal to the minimum wage. Let us look at the legislative history of this provision. Article 5b of the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers was added to that Act by the Act of 23 October 2014. The explanatory memorandum of this law states that it is intended to extend the scope of the Act on social insurance for farmers to persons who, in parallel with the pursuit of agricultural activities, take as additional work under the contract of order, because, in the current legal state, the contract of order, even short-term and low-paid, results in the exclusion from social insurance of farmers under the law and the compulsory coverage of insurance under the general scheme. In general, the problem of farmers who lost their right to insurance in KRUS before 2014 in connection with the execution of low-paid contract orders as conservators and drivers of battle carts of TSOs, chiefs collecting agricultural tax and farmers who by choice were called to represent the professional interests of agricultural producers in supervisory boards of such entities, for example. agricultural cooperatives, agricultural wholesale markets, agri-food and grain and mill enterprises, companies, cooperative banks, as well as the social security fund for farmers of KRUS. These solutions allowed farmers to remain in the agricultural insurance scheme despite their professional activities resulting in compulsory social insurance for appointment to the supervisory board or taking up work under an order contract, agency contract or other service contract. The possibility of remaining in the agricultural social security scheme under this provision is conditioned only by the condition of the amount of income. The Kukiz Poselski Club15 initiates and supports all changes aimed at supporting farmers and providing them with the opportunity to obtain alternative sources of income. Agriculture is a sector of the economy closely linked to human-independent weather conditions. Legislation in this field is also highly susceptible, among others. to changes in the agricultural policy of the countries of the European Union. It is necessary to seek alternative sources of income in the countryside that would ensure a decent life for farmers and their families. Therefore, the Kukiz Club15 will support the proposed law, but carefully looking at the changes taking place in the KRUS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesz will now speak. There's no envoy. Therefore, Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u273	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is not a good practice to combine in a single draft the right changes with those which only serve to achieve a particular interest. Modern software supports solutions aimed at promoting professional participation. The parliamentary proposal in the first of the proposed amendments amends the Article. Article 5b (5) (b) 1, seems to meet social expectations. It does not cause much controversy in this regard. Although it concerns a small group of people, project designers estimate that a little over 2 000, but more effort should be expected to be made to justify the project. I quote: "In view of the numerous demands made by farmers themselves and farming-related organisations, it is justified to increase to a minimum the amount determining the possibility for farmers to be subject to social insurance at the request of farmers in the event of additional non-agricultural activities. And the questions arise: What were the postulates? Which organizations? What is the justification for this request? By the person who is interested in him himself? These questions are not answered in the explanatory memorandum. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an argument at all. This proposal has nothing to do with this premise. There's no cause-effect sequence either. I wish this were my biggest charge, but the law on changing the farmers' social security bill is unfortunately more than that. It's just a stool jump. It is the preparation of further posts for the next Misiewicz. The President of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers wrote in his opinion: "The agricultural self-government is concerned whether the introduction of a system of management positions at all levels of the KRUS up to the field on the basis of the appointment will not result in a reduction in the quality of the services provided by the KRUS. In field facilities, i.e. directly with a farmer, people should work with the right experience and internship in the institution in order to maintain the efficiency of the office and the unwavering and competent service of farmers. I fully share these concerns. Funny, though black is the humor that the proposed amendment is caused by adverse judicial decisions resulting from your December amendment of the same law. It is clear that the more posts to be filled on a vocation basis, the more jam to be given. For loyalty, knowledge, and the only right view of the world, because it's not really for competence. These are secondary and impassioned, whether it is the good of the Polish arms industry or the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. The embezzlement of another piece of the state, the payment of the next tranche of debt, often made with empty electoral promises, was euphemistically called by the projectors: allowing the president to conduct a rational and effective staff policy. One of the impacts is to reduce the negative effects of the lack of continuity in the management of specific KRUS areas. The party was so tempted to press its own everywhere that it was evident that it was considered a better job vacancy than that of a politically uncertain person. After all, these shortcomings in continuity are the result of your December decisions. Now there will be more for the faithful parties and their relatives and kinships. Think about it: all these off-site facilities, regional units, headquarters. In Lower Silesia alone, which I represent in the Sejm, there are 16 field facilities. How many managers, deputies can be put in there. However, those who have been fired by you have gone to the courts that grant them the right. Of course, this cannot be the case in the State of Law and Justice. Because the courts have stood in the way of your privacy, after 10 months, you're redrafting the bill. I get it, you have to hurry, because the jam's getting cold, and the election's in three years. So there will probably be more amendments of this kind soon. Help for 2,000. farmers and, by the way, for a few hundred of their own. And just so those courts don't get in the way. But you're working on that too, fighting the rule of law on several fronts at the same time. In this situation, it seems unnecessary to further justify the position of the Modernist towards the project under investigation. Of course, we will vote against this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u274	Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the club of the Polish People's Party, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u275	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! By presenting the position of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club in relation to this project, i.e. the draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers, I would like to signal first of all that this law in only one point is a good law, correct, namely at a point giving farmers the opportunity to earn or take a job, although the work does not, because under the employment contract the farmer will not be able to take action so as not to lose the possibility of insurance in the Social Insurance Fund, but, let's say, to obtain additional income from other activities. This is good, because it is not only an increase in this level, but it is also a continuation of what we introduced in the previous term, eliminating from public life the inconvenience that existed from the legal system. And in this respect, this law is indeed worthy of support. On the other hand, all other issues that have been taken up in this law, or are insignificant, unnecessary, such as the placement of funds by the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, or, above all, they are unnecessary in terms of staff policy. This is another, unfortunately, bill in large part of staff, which allows you to convert not yours into yours. So far, when I spoke about similar laws, I was talking about the fact that you are kicking out of work those who were employed in the previous term or in the previous two terms of office, but when it comes to changes in the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, you have reached very deeply, namely, to field offices, and people are fired not only during the last 8 or 10 years, but even during the past 15 years and more, when completely different political structures in Poland ruled. This is a profound structural change, and I'm going to stress once again that I'm changing not mine to mine. I would also say that this bill in one element is incomplete. I introduced on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party a proposal for another law, which makes the retirement age for farmers after 2017 not to be increased. This is an objection to this project, which today is being prosecuted in the Seym, by Law and Justice, which raises farmers' age in which they can retire. We absolutely disagree, and we don't think it's necessary, we don't see that as a possibility. In this regard, I also submit an amendment to the Marshal. I hope that the committee on this amendment will bend over, and not like in the case of the bill that we filed for the High House, will direct it to the Seym or the Commission's freezer. I am making an amendment, thanking you for listening to my speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u276	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft parliamentary law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. The contested bill is intended to enable farmers and households to obtain additional income from sitting on supervisory boards and agency contracts, order contracts or other service contracts while remaining in the KRUS insurance system. The current regulations provide for this possibility at a time when the additional income earned by farmers does not exceed 50% the amount of the minimum remuneration. The amendments in question increase the amount of the additional earnings to the minimum remuneration. This regulation is the implementation of farmers' demands and does not raise objections from the government. By increasing farmers' incomes, it will improve their quality of life. In addition, project promoters propose a new way to regulate the system of filling posts at all levels in KRUS. According to the provisions of the amendment, the current form of employment in these posts would change from a contract of employment to a contract of appointment. As pointed out at the committee's meeting, this regulation regulates the structure and, due to the already existing rules, does not affect the state budget. In the opinion issued on the draft by the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, we can read that such regulation, in particular in KRUS field units, could worsen the quality of farmers' service. I consider this argument to be impossible because this change does not mean that workers will be appointed with lack of experience and without appropriate competence. The third change envisaged by this project is to enable the KRUS to make more effective use of the free resources collected in the form of surplus funds by introducing into the current regulations a provision allowing for their placement and free circulation. This record is the implementation of the recommendations made by the Supreme Audit Chamber after the audit has been carried out. I consider all the amendments that have been amended to be reasonable and appropriate. The Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle is in favour of the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u278	Thank you very much. One Member joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Please, Mr Jerzy Małecki, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Before I ask a question, I would like to refer to the proposal made by your Member of the PSL. I just wanted to remind you that it was the coalition of PO and PSL that raised the retirement age. And as for the question, I'd like to [[Applause]] find out what number of farmers this law will touch after it enters into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u280	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. Mr Mieczysław Baszko, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why a farmer on a structural basis cannot receive any remuneration subject to social security obligations, e.g. is he a member of the supervisory board of a cooperative bank, a municipal economy establishment, or would he like to make some kind of legal cash? The Structural Pensions Act forbids this. After all, KRUS and ZUS are the same Poland and this is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland - unequal treatment of citizens. Because any other pensioner can make a pension, at least up to a certain amount. And a structural pension is not a disability pension. And in this way these farmers are simply incapacitated at the age of 55 and 60 years old. They can't make money legally, they're being pushed by the Polish state into a gray area. In addition, they are deprived of their right to sit in local authorities, e.g. a cooperative bank, while collecting any social security contributions, indirectly brings something to the budget [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u282	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, unfortunately, that's the situation, that when there's a bill that's even right sometimes, along with some back door, you try to turn it into a staff bill. And so it is in this case. Recently, we had a situation that all branch directors in the ZUS were fired, and now it's probably gonna happen to those... [[So late.]] ...who run the KRUS. Clearly, it's... [[It's about time.]] ...action to hire their own again. As the scope and number of posts that will be filled by appointments is increasing, it already includes not only managers but also deputy managers, I have a question: How many new officials from the PiS nomination will need to be hired? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u284	The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Often, when we proceed with this law, we hear such a charge that we are giving the farmer the opportunity to make up so that he can make up to the lowest minimum wage for work outside agriculture. And that's such a big charge that a farmer can make some extra money by staying in the KRUS. Here would be my question, Minister: How much are farmers' incomes lower than those of people living in the city? What it's been like over the last few years, because farmers are still trying to chase, chase city dwellers, chase people in the budget, but I think we're still far from equalizing some of them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u286	Thank you. Mr Rafał Romanowski will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers has three basic assumptions. The first is to increase to a minimum the amount of social insurance for farmers. The second amendment aims to clarify issues relating to the establishment of employment relationships with employees employed in the positions of head of organisational cells. The last amendment aims to clarify the location of the free resources of the administrative fund, which is also the implementation of the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit proposals. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Taking into account the limitations resulting from Article. 5a, it is justified to introduce an income threshold for persons undertaking additional activities on the basis of an agency contract or an order contract or other service contract to which the provisions on the order or the role of the supervisory board under the Civil Code apply for remuneration at the same time covered by the social insurance of farmers. I would like to say that this is, among other things, an objection from the Member, which the organisations have called for to make this change. the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, the Solidarity of Individual Farmers, the Association of Homeland or agricultural circles, which is all those organisations which are concentrated even within COPA, i.e. a transnational organisation which cooperates with the agricultural department, chorally raises this aspect so that farmers who not only carry out social activities but also work in the supervisory boards of cooperative banks or dairy cooperatives referred to here, which, through cooperative shares, are owned by farmers, can raise their additional income. According to the calculations of the KRUS - I answer the Member's question - the proposed change estimated the increase in the number of persons subject to social insurance for farmers to 2353 persons, which represents 0.17 of the number of persons covered by this insurance as at the end of the first quarter of 2016. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Concerning the second amendment of the amendment proposal - Article. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) I would like to point out here, in reply to the Member, that these are not specific provisions of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, and these amendments were introduced by law on 20 December 2015. The changes proposed by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice clarify this by adding management positions and their alternates, as well as the organisational chart, namely the KRUS organisational units, which form part of the organisational scheme. To answer the question of how many new officials need to be hired, I would like to say that this change is not aimed at any increase in employment in the Social Insurance Fund, nothing like this is bringing about. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has further proposed, clarified the amendment, which is replaced by the amendment, according to which the employment relations of employees employed on the date of entry into force of this Act in the positions of deputies, head of organisational cells in headquarters, regional branches and field offices, and directors of branches and their deputies and their deputies referred to in Article. 60 Law referred to in Article. 1 in the wording of this Act, become labour relations on the basis of an appointment within the meaning of the Law of 26 June 1974. This is exactly what the Labour Code is all about. Thus, nothing is changed as regards the amendment of the Law of 20 December 2015, and as I mentioned earlier, this law further clarifies this. As regards the amendment of the Article. 83 of the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers, as I mentioned earlier, is the implementation of the recommendation of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the implementation of the 2015 State budget in Part 72 of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. This amendment will consequently make it necessary to issue a new regulation on how to conduct the financial economy, which will enable the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund to implement the above mentioned regulation. changes and clarification of the issue of localisation of the free resources of the administrative fund, i.e. quite frankly, the President, following the introduction of this law, will be able to manage these funds effectively while maintaining the timely execution of tasks and the security of the measures, which is also the result of the audit conclusions of the Supreme Audit Chamber. As far as the number of farmers is concerned, I have already allowed myself to answer that question here. The Structural Pensions Act. Why must the participants of this action not carry out additional activities under the Rural Development Programme or have additional income? He said very effectively to himself that this is a separate provision implemented under the EPROW, the European Rural Development Programme, where it is clearly clarified and stated that it is so-called. the transitional period allowing the heirs of the holding to be transferred. At that time, such a beneficiary can benefit from the Rural Development Programme from the 2007-2013 perspective, whether he had the possibility in the earlier perspective to benefit from a structural pension, and there is a clear provision in this law, as well as in the RDP, which the Polish People's Party, as the previous head of the Ministry of Agriculture, negotiated in the European Commission. And such changes have also been clarified there. As regards Mr Sachaika's question, let me answer it in writing. This calls for a very detailed analysis and for your hands, Mr President, such an answer will be addressed. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party proposed in the article. 1 in the Act of 20 December 1990 on social security for farmers, the following amendment. Art. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a is replaced by the following: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2. Mr Maliszewski. In this way, the previously procedated parliamentary project of the Polish People's Party wants to meet the needs of this particular project, but I do wish, Mr... As one Member here pointed out, in the Act of 11 May 2012 amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, the coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party changed the general retirement age for men and women - up to 67 years old, in the general system and in the agricultural system on the same principles. Mr, in other words, this period is maintained until the end of 2017. I would also like to remind you that the farmers' social insurance law also limits the right to the so-called. early agricultural pension - 55 years for women and 60 years for men and at least 30 years for the social insurance of farmers and a complete cessation of agricultural activity only for farmers who meet all statutory conditions by the end of 2017. In the previous term of office of the Sejm club PSL submitted a parliamentary bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws, which proposed so-called. an internship pension regardless of age if the insured person has a minimum of 40 years' insurance period. A similar bill was also submitted during this term of office and was rejected by the Sejm at first reading. Previously cited by me, the Rural Development Programme, among others. shape the concept of a young farmer under the age of 40, plus the so-called. an internship pension, which means 40 years of internship. Mr President, this would entail a shift in the retirement age for farmers over the age of 70. It would be worthwhile to lean on the presidential project and first discuss the reduction of the retirement age and second to consider the issue of the transitional period. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u288	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, can you correct it?]] Would the rapporteur like to speak? There's no envoy? There it is. Will the Member speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister has answered all the questions that have been asked here, so there's nothing left for me. I thank everyone who spoke, even if it was a critical voice, because every voice is important. I hope that this bill will be passed in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u290	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, as corrected. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Me, too, in such an absolutely consensual mode. I just want to say that those provisions that were adopted in the previous term of office did not result in any farmer at the age of 60 or a woman working in the countryside at the age of 55 refusing to retire. We therefore propose to extend these provisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u292	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... [[Member of the applicant.]] I would like to ask the applicant.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! As a representative of the applicants, I would like to thank you for this debate, and I would also like to thank you for the amendments that have been tabled, which means that we are working in substance on this law. This law is needed, expected by farmers, because they will want to work out in the KRUS, this is good information for farmers. As I have the floor, I would like to address two statements - a Member from the Polish People's Party and a Member from the Civic Platform. I want to make it clear that if I were you, dear gentlemen, I would be ashamed to burn, because how can you be such a hypocrite? How can you lie to Poles in this way, to defend Poles today, that it is about retirement age. May I remind dear Members of the time when you threw 2 million signatures of citizens in the trash. May I remind Members of how the strikers, the protesters of the union came to the Sejm and one of your fellow Members even beat up the cameraman, the journalist. Maybe I'll also remind you how you had to run over the fence because the unionists... [[I wasn't running away.]] ...in the Seym they occupied. You guys are standing up for the retirees today. [[In the committee of national minorities.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear: Law and Justice in the election campaign promised that the retirement age would return and return, the President's bill is being prosecuted, and you can try to make a policy on it and you won't get away with it. As for the second plea that this is a personal act, I would like to remind you that seven years ago it was you, ladies and gentlemen, who introduced the law and from the employment contracts you removed all the functionaries in the Arimr, to the deputy district manager. At the time we said that you were hurting these workers, because every next change, every next power will be out of what you did, she'll benefit, she'll just be able to exchange employees without any problems. This is your idea, you did it seven years ago, and I just want to refresh your memory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u294	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ... The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to present a report. If I don't hear any objection... [[I ask for the floor, because the Member has spoken clearly untruthful.]] But he didn't mention your name. Please leave the podium. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Social Policy and Family Committee on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund Act (prints No 150 and 884). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, which was included in print No. 884. The Parliamentary bill entered the Sejm for this term of office on 11 December 2015. The use of the wording of the Sejm in this term of office is not accidental because it is identical to the projects which were submitted in the 6th and 7th term of the Sejm. Unfortunately, at the time these projects were not considered positively. The draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act contains proposals to protect the pension benefits of indebted recipients by increasing the amount free of deductions and introducing the principle that the amount of the lowest benefit would already be free from tax deductions. This project does not change the rules for carrying out bail-out, does not introduce abolition of debts, and it really involves two aspects: it concerns indebted pensioners who are executed, but pensioners, renners who have very low benefits. This project does not change the situation of recipients whose benefits are even national average, average benefit, this project of such persons does not apply to any extent. The aim of this project is only to increase the amount free of deduction. The project is modelled on an amount free of deduction for workers, since the minimum wage is already free from bailouts. If the employee earns the current minimum rate, PLN 1850 gross, then the bailiff can no longer carry out executions from this salary and therefore the project was modelled on this situation. The project was a response to the situation that indebted pensioners could receive benefits that constituted less than a minimum of existence. I would like to point out that today's minimum of existence is over 500 PLN per month, and this is an amount below which one can no longer survive. I'm not talking about the minimum social amount, I'm talking about the minimum existence. On the other hand, the lowest pension at present is PLN 880,45 gross, and the lowest pension is PLN 675,13 gross. Only 50% are protected by applicable law in the course of bail-out activities. the lowest amount of pension and pension, so the indebted pensioner, and even more so the pensioner under the current legislation could be deprived of a survivor's benefit, i.e. he could remain for the rest of his life with a monthly amount paid below the minimum of existence. This parliamentary project was addressed by your Marshal on 22 December 2015 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, where the first reading took place on 13 January and the project was addressed to the Permanent Sub-Committee for detailed consideration. The project was commissioned for appropriate legal analyses at the Sejm Analysis Office, and in August this year. The government of the Republic of Poland has adopted its position on this project. The opinions and positions point to the need to increase legal protection in terms of guaranteeing the benefit, but it is pointed out that increasing it to the full extent of the minimum benefit could not only be detrimental to creditors and unfair to them, but could also be detrimental to the recipients themselves, i.e. indebted pensioners and pensioners. First, pensioners who receive the lowest benefits would lose their lending capacity entirely in banks, but also in the case of the current debtors to whom enforcement proceedings have already been carried out, in the event that enforcement from pension benefits is prevented, the bailiff would be forced to look for other sources of execution and would, for example, be carried out. to more frequent real estate executions. Certainly not such a pseudo-correction of the situation of pensioners was concerned with applicants. Given that next year the lowest pension will increase significantly, and therefore the lowest pension will increase to PLN 1000, i.e. by more than 10%. , a dozen per cent - an amendment was accepted during the work of the subcommittee and proposed in the article. 141 Social Insurance Fund pension law adding point 1a, which would provide that pensions are free from executions and deductions in a proportion corresponding to 75% the amount of the lowest pension, i.e. we have reached a compromise. Transitional provisions have also been amended to provide that the reduction-free amount is increased from 50 to 75% the lowest provision is also applicable to the executions already being carried out. Vacatio legis has also been amended, stating that the Act will enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiry of six months from the date of publication. The report of the Sub-Committee on these amendments was adopted. The subcommittee adopted them on 13 September this year, and on 4 October the subcommittee's report was examined at the committee meeting and the committee proposes that the new law be adopted in such a form. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u296	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Halina Szydleko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, print No. 884. The subject of this amendment, which concerns an increase in the amount free from seizure in the event of an execution for pension benefits, has already been taken up several times by the Sejm of its previous term of office. This is a very important topic because it concerns a group of the least wealthy, often living on the verge of existence. Pension benefits are subject to enforcement and any pensioner who becomes a debtor should consider that part of his benefits may be taken up in the course of enforcement proceedings. The problem is how big is it supposed to be? The amount free of occupation should guarantee the pensioner a minimum income to meet the basic needs. This is not the case at present. In the case of the lowest pensions and pensions, the bailiff may take up to 50% of this benefit. This is a much smaller security than e.g. in the case of remuneration for work. Thus, pension benefits are not sufficiently protected. Even from the lowest pension or pension, the bailiff can execute, which results in people receiving these benefits being left without means of living, and this leads to dramatic situations for those who, as a result of this execution, are not only unable to pay back debts that are still increasing due to interest and costs of execution, but also do not have enough resources, they have nothing to live for. One might wonder if it would be right for an amount free of occupation to be equal to the lowest pension or pension benefit, but sometimes execution would be impossible. True, the creditor could satisfy other assets of the debtor, but often these other assets simply do not exist. This would also be against a pensioner who would not have been able to credit, since in such a case no bank would have granted credit to a person who does not have collateral and no claim on his benefits could be enforced. The interest of the creditor, which cannot be forgotten, is also important. It is therefore appropriate to set an amount free of seizure at 75% , not, as previously proposed, 100%. Thus, in the case of the proposed change, the pensioner receiving the lowest benefit could receive about 600 PLN, while the pensioner could receive 400 PLN. And that's the minimum existence. It should also be noted that this regulation will not reduce the enforcement of the claim, but only extend the recovery period, while leaving sufficient resources to pensioners for a decent life. With this in mind, the Law and Justice Club fully supports this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u298	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland has the honour to present to the High House the position of the club on the draft parliamentary law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, prints No. 150 and 884. The project concerns an increase in the amount free of execution in respect of benefits received under the pension. The main objective of this amendment is to limit the execution of non-maintenance claims for pension benefits by excluding the possibility of deductions from an amount not exceeding the equivalent of the lowest pension after deduction of health insurance premiums and income tax advances. The proposed solution aims to provide pensioners with similar protection, which workers are entitled to at the enforcement stage as regards remuneration for work. The proposed amendment is therefore intended to safeguard the basis for existence for persons who live on social security benefits so that in the future there is no longer a situation in which those who receive these benefits could be deprived of their means of life as a result of enforcement proceedings. In the light of the above, I would like to inform you that the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland will vote in favour of the draft law amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, print Nos 150 and 884. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u300	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly. In this case, we have some opposing values, some interests that we need to consider, and we need to find a solution that will not interfere, at least in a significant way, with any of the important social interests. On the one hand, we want to protect pensioners and pensioners, to ensure that they have basic means of existence, on the other hand, we need to protect creditors, those who have decided to lend their assets to someone. They must be protected, in general the law should provide some certainty and safety of trading. We must also protect those entitled to alimony - in a special way. Let us remember that executions often involve persons or the rights of persons who are entitled to a maintenance. Therefore, we are introducing here. a further tightening of these rules. We can see that the number of seniors who are in debt has been growing for a long time, and it is very serious. This number is growing disproportionately to the increase in the overall number of pensioners and pensioners, i.e. more and more renownists are in debt beyond their capabilities. The amount of these debts, the amounts that pensioners and pensioners owe to their creditors, is also increasing. This will lead to a bubble that can at some point become even dangerous for the entire social segment. We also know that seniors are often exploited. They are primarily exploited by various types of unfair lending practices, widely understood lenders, those who, and here I will say, advertise their loans on television, who introduce people, especially older ones, to the reality of the legal situation in which they will find themselves after the contract is signed; but are also used by their loved ones, by families who use their grandmother or grandfather to take a loan that does not really go to this older person and does not satisfy its needs, but goes for purposes that are not always worthy of the younger ones. The question is, can we fight it? Probably not, not that bill. Because what are the consequences of this bill? The effect is that we're gonna lower seniors' credit. Sometimes the senior needs money for the procedure, for another important thing, and his credit capacity will be reduced, because no reasonable lender, seeing that there is no possibility of execution or it is significantly reduced, will not give this credit, will not give this loan. The result will also be that the credibility of the legal system as such will be slightly less, as the system excludes another group from the normal effects of its decisions. Finally, we make it a little less responsible for the actions of the entire segment of people, which means that seniors are somehow less responsible for what they do. All this business we have to break down. At present, applicants are proposing to increase these amounts in order to increase this protection and, however, secure the amounts that are too low for normal existence, here we will all agree. Let me put it this way, our club was thinking about it and we thought that despite these reservations, let's say, such free market ones - because we are again affecting the free market in some way - because of the growing number of pensioners and pensioners, because of the growing number of ordinary crooks who are trying to exploit these people, we will support this amendment, the more that it brings this group of pensioners closer to this group of pensioners, their protection, to the protection that workers also have, because we forget that normal workers also have protection of their wages, and in some sense it is difficult for pensioners to be in a worse position than those workers. Of course, we are forgetting here, and we are not saying that there are retired and very wealthy pensioners who have other assets, and I hope that it is not the intention to protect this property, because it is not. We are also forgetting this, at least I want to say that the maintenance responsibility of children vis-à-vis parents also exists. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just a minute, very briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u302	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u303	It should be remembered that these children are responsible for their parents. We forgot about the introduction rules...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u304	Ms Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u305	...because there could be interference here...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u306	You had five minutes, sir. Would you kindly leave...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u307	...with these cases in progress. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u308	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested bill amending the Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act concerns matters that are insanely relevant to thousands of citizens and concerns an ethical and non-obvious issue. The development of the system of pension deductions should be based on the principle of social justice. The deduction-free amount should allow for the minimum income necessary to satisfy the basic needs. The current income thresholds for applying for social assistance are equivalent to the minimum of existence. There is a biological threat to the development of life for those who have less at their disposal. Free amount of 50% the lowest pension is that less. A person forced to live for this amount lives at a level whose developed democratic state in the heart of Europe should be ashamed. In the current legal situation, there is a lack of symmetry between the protection of deductions from workers and the protection of pensioners. The staff member may, after deduction, retain almost three times the amount of the pension and four times the amount entitled to a partial invalidity pension. However, there is no reason to believe that he needs three times more money to ensure a minimum of existence than a pensioner who spends a large part of his medical income. However, as I mentioned at the beginning, the matter is not obvious. We have to weigh the rations. Social solidarity calls for a huge problem of indebted pensioners and pensioners, but we cannot do this in isolation from the context. There are different ways of falling into debt, as well as the person of the creditor - it can be a senior loan company, it can also be a family, left to itself and entitled to judicial alimony. It is therefore pleased that the difference in the amount free from seizure, depending on the nature of the claim being enforced, has been left to the effect that there is a need for increased protection of maintenance rights. These are social expectations, and that is what normal human decency dictates. While trying to weigh the interests of debtors and creditors, we should not lose sight of other instruments available to us to protect indebted pensioners and pensioners. In order to eliminate the causes and not to fight the consequences, the Polish state should place emphasis on preventive measures. It should inform and educate in the area of responsible money management, discourage consumption on credit, respect excessive commitments and guarantee too much, and make it possible to obtain free legal advice. However, I am aware that these are issues that go beyond the matter of the contested law. Because the work of the subcommittee gave tangible results and led to corrections of questionable records, including among others. too short vacatio legis, Modern will vote in favour of the bill in its proposed form. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u310	Thank you very much. Ms Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club, will now speak. [[There isn't.]] There is no Member. Mr Krystian Jarubas, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u311	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, prints 150 and 884. Ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary bill on deductions from pensions, which we are looking at, assumes an increase in the amount free of deductions, so that the pension will remain after deduction of the liabilities and allow the pensioner to survive. This assumption is a good direction, and I don't think there's any doubt about it. Nor is it a secret that the case was raised by the Ombudsman. At present, 20, 50 or 60% may be deducted depending on the title of the pension or pension enforcement. the amount of this benefit. This means that the security of these benefits is much smaller than e.g. the remuneration for work, where the amount of the minimum remuneration shall be deducted from the sums enforced under the implementing titles to cover claims other than maintenance benefits. The proposed law is intended to change that. The direction is good, but there are doubts about the intentions of the applicants. It is important to remember that this is not the first time PiS Members may have good intentions, but with implementation it is worse. It is not the first time, however, that you are illusionists on the subject of pensions. You created an illusion of election, exploited and abandoned people living in the Polish countryside. It is outrageous how you treat Polish farmers. It is one of the hardest working groups in Poland. We already know that the government in its position for a presidential retirement age reduction project wants to increase the retirement age for farmers. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. You're pulling out of what the hard coalition with the Platform has won the PSL. You want to deprive the farmers of the so-called. partial pension. You are false prophets to the Polish village. Once again, he wants to repeat: there is no consent. PSL to take a partial pension from farmers. As you know, we have already tabled draft resolutions in the Sejm, as well as an appropriate law maintaining partial pensions for farmers. And we're not gonna let that go. However, this does not change the fact that the PSL Parliamentary Club will support your proposal on the amount free of deductions that has been compromised. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u312	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Club of Free and Solidarni, excuse me, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni. It's not a club yet. [[The club's on its way.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u313	Yes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the proposal for a parliamentary bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. The aim of this project is to increase the protection of pensioners and pensioners who have fallen into debt and to provide them with at least a minimum of existence. The contested regulations aim to achieve this objective by increasing the amounts of deductions-free pensions and the execution of other than maintenance claims. According to the amendment, 75% of the amount free of execution and deductions will be paid to the recipient of the lowest benefit. In the case of higher benefits, creditors will be able to claim their claims in the current procedure. Today's draft law in its present form only partially implements the original intentions of the projectors, but is the result of a difficult compromise between the need to protect the poorest pensioners resulting from the need to provide them with at least minimum existence and protection of interests and unlimited rights of creditors. An important provision in the project is to include the provisions of the Enforcement Act which are already in progress. The addition of this regulation is an important element contributing to the achievement of the main objective of this novel. In the future, the adoption of a government bill, which I hope will soon be crucial for the fulfilment of the project's intentions, which will be discussed in this House, increasing the level of the lowest benefits paid by pensioners and pensioners. This law will be of particular importance to those recipients whose benefit is currently the lowest and the various conditions have not allowed their situation to be taken into account in the project under investigation. Finally, I would like to convey to the rapporteur Barbara Bartus my sincere appreciation for the perseverance you have shown, fighting for this project for so many years. I know that expectations were greater, but I hope that the current amendment will not be the end of the topic of aid in this area, but merely an introduction to it. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u314	Thank you very much. Four Members have asked questions. [[What about me?]] Excuse me, four of your fellow Members. I'm so sorry. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Sitarski, the Kukiz Club15, is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of these regulations provides for the inability to enforce pension benefits of pensioners and pensioners who can now remain without means of living and are much worse protected than workers. My questions are basically about the procedure and deadlines for the protection of benefits payments. What about citizens and citizens whose execution is already under way? How will the protection of the benefits provided by mail be presented? Is there any chance that legislation in its amended form will enter into force as of January 2017? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u316	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project envisages an increase in the amount for which pensions are free from executions and deductions. The proposed amendment will provide pensioners with legal protection to guarantee that they receive all the lowest benefit equivalent to that enjoyed by employees. This bill is undoubtedly important because it will give many people the right to receive benefits at least at the minimum level of existence. In this connection, I would like to ask: Is the number or percentage of people, households, in which the quality of life will be improved after the amendment of the above law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u318	Thank you. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the rapporteur and the Minister. The amount free of execution today puts in a much better position for pensioners and pensioners, but makes executions in financial institutions, if they do not pay regularly, increase. For this reason, criminal interest is also increasing, so the obligation to pay such a pensioner who does not pay regularly will increase. This is an illusory security detail for today. And I would like to ask: How will you protect, during the transitional period, where commitments have already been made and where they will be new in the light of the new rules? That's one thing. Second: Did you carry out studies, how many people who [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this way, they will be protected, eliminated from the market...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u320	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u321	...with the possibility of using loans and entering a zone where loans will be much more expensive? It will also cost them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u322	Thank you, Member. [[A minute isn't enough.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think I'm not the only one meeting with people who've been hurt on the so-called. pseudo-presentations of some good products that are disproportionately high in price. We can also see from the press articles that the introduction of 500+ reduces the revenues of companies that gave loans to a few hundred percent a year. Are there any other forms of protection for pensioners and pensioners that you still provide for the Minister, the Ministry, to protect against the two-way, unfair practices of both these pseudo-presentations and companies that provide extremely expensive, highly-interested loans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u324	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Marcin Zielenecki will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few words to begin with on the government's position on the draft law on the revision of the Social Insurance Fund Act discussed today. It can be said that, in such an intentional form or in an intentional level, this is a positive position, with reference to the original version of the project, the government only welcomes the reduction of the amount free of deductions from claims other than maintenance claims. I would remind you that the original draft proposed that this amount should be free of the full lowest or minimum pension benefit. These arguments, which we discussed today, namely the pursuit of preservation by those receiving the lowest pension benefits of credit, have decided that, in the official position of the Council of Ministers presented to the Sejm Marshal on 2 August 2016, the government was in favour of setting this amount free of deductions at 70%. the lowest pension. With regard to the other proposals that were included in the original proposal, it was precisely the desire to protect creditors that our position in this regard was negative. As regards the questions that were raised during the discussion, I would also like to draw attention to one thing, namely the draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act, which is currently underway within the government. I mean a project to increase the amount of the lowest pension benefits. I will remind you that this project assumes that the lowest pension benefits are to increase from PLN 882 to PLN 1000, while the lowest pension benefits, the lowest benefits for partial incapacity for work according to this project are to increase to PLN 750. I would like to say that these are actions that are heading in the same direction as the draft law that is being discussed today amending the Social Insurance Fund pension law. They aim to protect the poorest pensioners and pensioners. The solutions introduced to this second draft law will also apply to those affected by enforcement proceedings, because an increase in the amounts of the lowest pension benefits will automatically increase the deductions-free amounts of the various possible deductions. With regard to the questions raised in the course of the discussion on the scope of the impact of the draft law discussed today, I would like to say that this project will apply to pension benefits in a situation where enforcement is carried out both under the rules on administrative execution and under the rules on civil enforcement. With regard to enforcement rules, the rules governing executions from cash apply here, so that detailed arrangements are contained in the regulations on appropriate enforcement procedures. As regards the improvement of the quality of life of what number of people will contribute to the introduction of this project, we do not have this type of data, because while we are, of course, able to determine the number of people receiving the lowest pension benefits, it is not possible to determine the number of pension benefits that are subject to enforcement under both the rules on enforcement in the administration and the rules on civil execution. As regards the issue of the introductory provision discussed today, I would like to say that the assumption is that this law will concern both the commitments that have been made, i.e. loans which have been incurred before the date of entry into force of the Law and the commitments already being executed under the rules of both civil and administrative execution, as well as those commitments that will be made in the future, after the provisions of the Act discussed today have entered into force. We have the position of the Legislative Office on this issue, which was presented during the work of both the subcommittee and the committee, and as if we share the legitimacy of using such a specific introductory provision. I would also like to say that the bill assumes a relatively long vacathio legis, because it is practically a 6-month vacathio legis, so that people to whom the provisions of this law will apply will, according to our assessment, have an adequate amount of time to comply with its rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u326	Thank you very much. Is the applicant's representative... Mrs Barbara Bartus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u327	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, as the representative of the applicants and the rapporteur of the committee, I would like to thank everyone for their work, for working together on this project. I would like to thank all the members of the committee, but also the subcommittee and the president, that we have been able to agree on this final report, which is being examined today. I also wanted to thank all the parliamentary clubs for their positive position. I'm glad. Just as the Member has already pointed out here, it has been a long fight for the adoption of this law. And I will say that the project itself was born in a rather dramatic situation when I found out about the suicide of a retired, indebted marriage that could not cope with this situation - one loan they took to pay off the earlier ones and there was a situation that they really had nothing to live out. These were the beginnings of the project. Thank you for the job today. I would also like to address the questions that have been asked. The Minister answered the first question: Will these rules apply to the executions already carried out? Yeah, they'll apply. This was also worked out during the work of the subcommittee. The Member who asked first asked whether it was possible for the law to enter into force from January. No, there's a six-month vacathio legis here, more than six months from the day of the announcement. And this is for this simple reason that if these regulations apply to future but also current indebted pensioners, the Social Insurance Institution will have to adapt the IT system, because it is known that this execution is conducted in an organised manner and that the Social Insurance Institution will have to prepare itself for this. That's why it's an elongated vacathio legis. But while we've waited all these years, I think the joy that it's gonna come in is huge. How many people are involved? Let me put it this way: more can be learned from the media about how many people this applies to, but we know that pensioners and pensioners are getting more and more indebted, and the media are writing about it more and more. I too, when working on this project, have to say that after the number of different petitions, letters, phones, emails, it seems that this project is expected by many people, although many people have more hope for it than the project itself does. As for Mrs Skowronska's questions, I do not know whether they were questions about whether it was a desire to scare the project. The Member said that this protection would be illusory, because if it extends, it would increase interest. I think that any pensioner who doesn't pay his dues, any borrower who doesn't pay his dues, knows that interest is rising, and knows that if he lets a bailout happen, then apart from these rising interest rates, there will still be a lot of execution costs. So this awareness, I think it's in the borrowers, and if anyone can pay off their debt, then the debt will pay off. This project, on the other hand, concerns the situation of the poorest people we want to leave the means to survive. And I do not understand at all, Madam, who, being the president of the bank, scares the pensioners and pensioners of this project that the cost of borrowing will increase. I do not understand this at all, because the credit capacity of a pensioner who today has 880 zlotys, I think, is not higher than the future pensioner who will have at least 1000 zlotys. So it's incomprehensible to me. As far as the protection of the amount is concerned, as has already been said many times today, the minimum wage, i.e. approx. 1400 PLN net at present, is protected from bailouts. Retirement, which today amounts to 880 PLN and several dozen gross pennies, which is about 800 PLN net, is only half-protected. So I think, like I said, it wasn't the questions, it was the scaring of pensioners and pensioners again. And I, dealing with topics of social security, dealing with topics about pensioners, have recently noticed many untruths that I can even read in newspapers called legal ones, which still scare the evil government of law and justice. If we start to describe the facts, I know that the Law and Justice government has not only paid out the pension allowance, but in the area of pensions it takes a huge, milestone. The increase from 880 to 1000 minimum pensions is more than a dozen percent in one year. I think that this fact really should be noted, not constantly threatened by the fact that we will raise our contributions or do something wrong to pensioners. To conclude, once again, thank you very, very much to all the clubs and all those who worked on this bill. We worked in harmony and as you can see in club speeches, there is support for this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u328	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 on the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws (prints No 769 and No 898). I ask Mrs Teresa Glenc to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Health Commission has examined the government draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws, print No 769. July 19th this year The project entered the Sejm. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau on 22 July 2016, referred the draft law to the Health Committee for first reading. The governmental bill amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentists and some other laws aims to restore the post-graduate internship of doctors as a necessary step in the professional development of doctors and dentists, enabling practical training of professions harmonised within legal and organisational framework and harmonisation of practical teaching by students of the 6th year of the medical and dental course of the 5th year. The project proposes to return to internship after graduation. Doctors will have post-graduate training under the supervision of the caregiver, i.e. a specialist doctor in a particular field of medicine or a dental practitioner who has been engaged in a profession for at least 5 years. Legislative comments have been adopted in the following articles: Article. 1 in point 3, in Article. 1 in point 8 (a) as regards paragraph 1. 1, after Article 5 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Article 5 is added. 5a. In addition to the legislative comments adopted, the committee adopted nine amendments. Amendment 1 concerns Article. 1 - in point 1 before point (a) and the following new amendment is added: 1 in the entry into the calculation of the words "subject to paragraph." The second and second paragraphs shall be replaced by the following: Two-six. Amendment 2 concerns the amendment of the law in Article. 1 in point 3 (a) a, which gives a new sound. Amendment 3 to the draft is an amendment concerning Article. 1. In point 3 (a), point (b) is replaced by the following: f concerning paragraph. 10a after the words "Article." Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The words "Article 7' shall be inserted. Paragraph 7 The following words shall be inserted after the words 'the words 'the words 'the words 'the words 'the word 'the word 'the word 'the word 'the word 'the word 'the word 'the word 'the word 'the word 'the word 'the word 'the word 'the word 'the word 'the Amendment 4 - Art. Point 1 (5) (a) b new sound is appropriate. In Amendment No 5 to the draft Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and certain other Acts in Art. 1 in point 11 (a) as regards paragraph 1. Paragraph 5 (2) shall be inserted after the words "the preceding year'. Amendment 6 concerns arrangements for fulfilling the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 7 June 2016, while ensuring the quality of the examinations. Amendment 7 harmonises the identification of dental practitioners or dentists undergoing post-graduate training. Amendment 8 - Art. 3 in Amendment 5 to point (a) b concerning Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 is replaced by the following: by 15 March of the year preceding the financial year, the Voivodeships shall present to the Minister responsible for Health the assumptions relating to the financing of medical rescue teams and, in the case of medical emergency teams in the region concerned, international agreements concerning cross-border cooperation in the field of medical rescue, with the separation of funds for the implementation of these agreements. Amendment 9 aims to add a transitional provision governing the rights of persons referred to in the repealed proposed Article Law. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 point 2 of the Act of 28 April 2011 amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist, according to which dentists who have not started this traineeship are obliged to undergo post-graduate training at the latest on 1 October 2016 shall be exempt from the obligation to do so. On behalf of the Committee on Health, I request the adoption by the High Sejm of the report of the Health Commission in accordance with print No 898 and the adoption of the attached draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u330	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Raczak will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and certain other laws. This draft law as a print No 769 was addressed to the first reading in the Health Committee. This reading took place on 22 September this year. The committee's report is in print No 898. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this project is to restore post-graduate internship as a necessary step in the professional development of a doctor and dentist enabling practical apprenticeships in a harmonised legal and organisational framework. As is known, a postgraduate period for doctors and dentists was abandoned in 2011 based on the assumption that the introduction of practical training for the 6th year of studies would be a sufficient equivalent for this period to reduce the duration of training for professionals and speed up their access to the labour market. On the other hand, at a later stage, it was noted that students who are being trained in a new way, who will have two semesters of practical training in clinical fields in their studies, would be deprived of formal entitlement to health services due to a lack of right to pursue their profession, which was considered to be a serious problem. This has become one of the important reasons for abandoning this way of education. The first graduates, who were to be trained in a new way, were to leave medical schools in 2018. This means that so far there has been virtually no precedent for student training without a post-graduate internship. The proposed act will therefore not be another change imposed on a slightly earlier change, but on the contrary, it will stabilise the previously existing system for many years, which was a good system, tested and will now develop in the right direction. The full right to pursue the profession provided by the proposed law to trainees, taking into account the possibility of issuing prescriptions and issuing opinions and medical certificates, ensures, on the one hand, the high usefulness of trainees operating in the healthcare system, increasing in fact the number of doctors on the labour market, on the other hand, the assignment of a trainee to a specialist in a particular field of medicine or a dental practitioner pursuing a profession for at least 5 years, will ensure that trainees enter into professional life and improve practical skills so important in working with the patient. For these reasons, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this project in the vote, and for my part I would like to say: Ladies and gentlemen, I am a cardiologist, I am a dormitory, a professor of medicine, and for several decades I have been teaching medical students, teaching interns, doctors specialising in medicine, and I also know what is said in academic circles on this subject. It is clear that the common problem of current education is too little practical education in different directions, including medicine. This practicality of medicine is very important. In medicine, a very important issue is the issue of patient contact - doctor, relationship building, humanization preventing the dehumanization of the profession, these are extremely important problems. In this connection, I am personally pleased by the sequence of events that have taken place, as you will note that the proposed changes in the liquidation of the traineeship have forced changes in the medical training system that have put medical studies into practice. The projects converted many hours of seminars into exercises. What we would simply like to see happen is included in the education provisions. It was too little to replace a post-graduate internship, and it was simply not good in itself, of course, but if it was supplemented by an internship that will be restored, then, ladies and gentlemen, we have a real change in the right direction, because on the one hand, it was practicalized in medical studies, and on the other hand, a post-graduate internship was saved. So basically, net, a doctor's student will be able to do more after a post-graduate internship, which I'm very happy about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u332	Thank you, thank you very much. Ms Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Shortly: yes, true, what has been going on for decades, what has been trying to change, eliminating post-graduate internship, and we all know what he looked like, because we've been going through it ourselves, has led to a change in medical education for 6 years of studies or dental doctors for 5 years of studies. As we know, this law entered into force in 2011, and we are already in 2016, i.e. 5 years old. In fact, it has not yet entered into force, because the time to adapt to this type of change has indeed been set long enough. Unfortunately, what turned out to be too long was because it didn't enter into force, and you're changing the state, and it's not evolutionary, but revolutionary, because soon the committee and already some of the regulations enter in 2017, right? Quick shifts. Are the people who went to medicine, knowing from 2012, that there will be no post-graduate internship, satisfied? No one asked them. Who's happy? As you said, the dorms. And what are they dissatisfied with? [[Happy!]] That too much practical knowledge must be injected into students during the 6- or 5-year process. On the basis of the academic community's conclusions, we have this bill today, because what did the Minister do? She's re-introducing her post-graduate internship. What does it turn out to be? That these people will get more competence because as it fell out of my predecessor's mouth, they sort of patch the hole due to the lack of doctors, that's what you said, because they get the right to write prescriptions, to give opinions. Yes, they'll be under the supervision of a guardian, but they have to do this internship and then pass exams to be full doctors. So it's really going to be six years for dentists, and it's going to be seven years for doctors. There are countries where there is a post-graduate internship, there are countries where there is no post-graduate internship, but you took shortcuts. Quick and easy, 'cause you should've thought about it. Since this practice and the humanization of our work are not enough, it was necessary, Minister, to start discussing what the optimal model will be - such as to actually bring medical practitioners closer to practice. The results are that this legal instability is being judged negatively, because five years have passed and we're turning things upside down again. Such changes should not take place, the more that you want to place these young people, not yet fully formed doctors responsible, giving them competence in accordance with this law, and where is the money for them? Minimum wage. Like you said, they're gonna close the hole that works when it comes to a shortage of doctors, although I'd rather explain it than the minister's explanation, who, speaking of the absence of doctors, said that a better tired doctor than none, after the incident, when a doctor died after three or four days of hospital work. Will this change improve patients' access to the doctor or make them worse? In what year will the first year come out, which will be after the post-graduate and the competent doctor's degree? In 2021? Mr. Marshal, yes, it is a thing that deserves to be discussed, and no one says that as it is today, it is a good thing that nothing should change in the training of doctors. In one form or another, it is a practical teaching of medical students who then go into the world and are often alone in the office with a patient who has a terrible problem, a medical problem, you have to bear it, but not in this way. It turns out that some of the things in this bill are underprecise. If we have simulated clinical conditions in which future students of medical art will work, then I will say: Thank you. I can put everything underneath it, and I can imagine anything, not necessarily good. And by the way, we're talking about things that are for a patient who's having trouble accessing a doctor. So before the election, you said everything was gonna be okay. The year of government is almost over. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where are the shorter lines?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u334	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u335	That's not what you guys do, and the doctor's post-graduate internship so they can study for a year longer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u336	Thank you very much, Member. You had five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u337	And there you go, you guys are screwed up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u338	Thank you, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u339	The order and priorities are not those. [[Applause]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u340	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I have the honour to present our position on the government draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws, seym prints No. 769 and 898. The aim of this project is to restore post-graduate internships for doctors and dentists that were wound up in 2011. 5 years ago, the education system was changed, arguing the need to shorten the training period for doctors and dentists. This solution has proved far from perfect, especially in the context of the lack of the right of students to provide health services. Therefore, we have no doubt that the restoration of post-graduate traineeships is certainly necessary. According to the assumptions of the project, doctors will conduct post-graduate training under the supervision of a specialist doctor in a particular field of medicine or a dentist. This will enable them to acquire the necessary practical skills and to deepen their theoretical knowledge. The project assumes that a person who has completed his or her medical studies will receive the right to pursue his or her profession for the duration of his post-graduate internship. We have no doubt that an internship has a positive role to play in the profession of a doctor and dentist. It is necessary to complement knowledge and skills and allows the safe entry of a young doctor into the profession. The project also includes changes to the rules on exams, access to tests for these exams, the situation of foreigners wishing to take a post-graduate course. Unfortunately, there is nothing in the project about raising salaries for both intern doctors and, above all, for resident doctors. Without a clear increase in wages for even doctors residents who have paid worse than in Biedronka, we will not increase the number of doctors practicing in Poland. Our country against the background of European countries is at the gray end in terms of the number of doctors per 1000 inhabitants. Therefore, the Kukiz Club hereby makes an amendment to the hands of the Marshal, which aims to increase the remuneration of resident doctors. Without their fair pay, we will train doctors who will pursue themselves professionally in countries that appreciate their work. That is why we call for our amendment to be adopted and for the unfair remuneration of resident doctors to be stopped. In summary, taking into account the need to restore post-graduate internships for doctors and dentists, the Kukiz Club will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u341	Thank you. Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u342	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This year, representatives of all medical professions have joined together for the first time in history to tell the Minister about problems that affect Polish health care. I would like to emphasise a particular role in this group of resident doctors. These young people have simply pointed out the negative aspects of the health system, namely underfunding, lack of work efficiency, inadequate staffing policies and education systems that do not comply with the requirements of current medicine. They were meeting with whomever it was possible to expand their knowledge and convince the caller that it was time for real change. They spoke mainly to the ruling party, its representatives and the Ministry of Health. And what first question comes up after all these meetings? What example does the political elite set for our young, conscious, committed citizens, doctors? The time for this question is very good. You've been in charge for a year now, and residents have started talking to those responsible for the future of our health care after the elections with clean cards and high hopes. They believed that, first of all, they had a minister of health who had repeatedly assured doctors that they should earn decently for 10 years. Not much of this, Mr Kaczyński himself referred to the public, and I quote: Doctors should earn very well, well in terms of young people, and very well in terms of those experienced who are already doctors in the whole sense. I continue to quote Mr Kaczyński: I know this because it is a very difficult, very responsible profession, for which it is necessary to prepare for a long time, and we respect it. Unfortunately, these announcements proved to be just another unfulfilled electoral promise. Seeing that the minister had betrayed his ideals, they decided to continue their activities, to request the necessary changes, including on the street during the June demonstrations and later during the September protest of all medical professions. It has been said that in June, you assured young doctors that their representatives should be included in the ministerial team for the development of a change in post-graduate education. It is a pity that the project we are debating does not take into account the changes proposed by trainees' and residents' doctors, which concerned the amount of remuneration. At this point I would like to say out loud that the increase in the salary for young doctors is inevitable if we want to keep them in Poland. I am afraid that increasing recruitment for medical studies at low salaries for beginner doctors will not convince young, energetic, full involvement of people to continue their professional career in Poland. The bill is not the answer to problems affecting our Polish health care. Being so arrogant to young people who, along with other partners in a wonderful, substantive dialogue, are trying to change the world around them, can only cause a further drain of highly educated professionals and, as a result, deepen the system's problems. The sad thing is, when people give politicians ready solutions, they don't know how to use them. Let us remember that the system is meant for citizens, not the other way around. I call on the Minister of Health to speed up work on projects that will really solve the problem of pay in the health sector, because this is the main reason for emigration of high-class specialists educated in Poland. Proceded draft amendment of the Act on the Occupation of Doctors and Dentist Unfortunately, it does not solve this problem in any way. The Modern Posel Club will vote against the proposed changes. I would like to make a proposal for an amendment to the marshal's hand. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u343	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk will now speak also from the Modern Club. There's no envoy. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski from the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u344	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The contested bill restores the obligation and the need for an internship after graduation for both doctors and dentists. It concerns and affects a group of people who are educated, have theoretical knowledge and are preparing practically to perform tasks and duties in a very important, difficult and responsible area of working life, as well as to serve others. The project shall practically cover and clearly identify the responsibilities and entities to which certain tasks are indicated. The project refers to the place where the traineeship is held, the duration of the traineeship, the duration of the traineeship after completion of the course, and the conditions under which the traineeship is held. It also covers the issue of foreigners, i.e. those who do not have Polish citizenship, enabling them also to acquire these practical qualifications. The new bill also changes the rules for entering the medical final exam and the medical and dental final exam. The project also points to the possibility for the Minister of Defence to engage and provide financial support for doctors who are soldiers in active military service or serve in medicinal entities set up by and supervised by the Ministry of National Defence. In the project we also have defined and clarified possibilities for joint action in the border area by Poland and Germany. In the final, the project shall also specify and indicate the time within which these findings, the provisions adopted, which will have legal effect, will enter into force. As a club, the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u345	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u346	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. In this draft law, applicants propose to introduce a number of changes in the field of training in the profession of doctors and dentists which have a positive impact on the quality of teaching in these professions. Recognizing the purpose of all the changes made, I will refer only to the first ones. The main proposed regulation is the restoration of post-graduate internship for doctors and dentists, which was abandoned by the 2011 amendment of the Law. According to the projectors, post-graduate training is an important element after post-graduate education and plays an important role in strengthening and enhancing the practical skills of young doctors. The key to this solution is the fact that doctors internships on time and for post-graduate training will be granted full right to pursue their profession. Allowing young doctors to perform such activities as issuing prescriptions or issuing opinions or medical certificates will help to make more effective use of their competences and extend the possibility for patients to access medical services. It is also important to supervise an intern's doctor who, as amended, will be held by a physician with a medical professional or a dental practitioner who has a profession of at least 5 years. Another important change in the system of training for doctors and dentists proposed in the procedated project is the introduction of teaching under simulated clinical conditions as a compulsory part of pre-diploma training carried out at all higher education institutions in the 6th year of medical and dental studies and the 5th year of medical and dental studies. The provisions introducing such a form of teaching at all universities in which medical faculties are or are being established will have a beneficial effect on the level of knowledge and development of the skills of future doctors and dentists and, without additional burden on universities, will contribute to progress using modern teaching methods. I consider the possibility that students of the last year of their studies may be excluded from the medical final exam and the medical and dental final exam as another correct amendment proposed in this amendment. This regulation is supported by the title nature of these examinations and by the fact that they constitute one of the grounds for obtaining the right to pursue the profession, which only medical graduates should be entitled to. The greatest controversy in the project is raised by provisions concerning the publicisation of questions, together with the answers in the field of medical specialization and final exams. According to the amendment, the questions and answers in question will be available to those taking the exams shortly after they have been written. However, it will be access. only on a personal basis, without being able to copy. Full publication of the examination material will take place 5 years after the examination. For the benefit of patients in particular, medical training should be at the highest level. It is well known that the current way of verifying doctors' knowledge and skills does not fully meet all expectations. The total publicisation of questions and answers from examinations immediately after they have been carried out may have a negative impact on the extent of the material adopted by the persons taking the exam. In view of the limited resources and opportunities involved in the creation of new examination kits, this risk is even more real. Nobody should care about lowering the level of Polish medicine. Given the number of benefits resulting from the introduction of the procedated project, the Free and Solidarnia Circle will vote in favour of its further procession. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u347	Thank you very much. Eight ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of people who've been saved for questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club. Absent. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Club Law and Justice. There isn't any either. Krzysztof Sitarski, the Kukiz club15, asked in writing. This is Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, the Law and Justice Club. [[I'm here.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In 2011, a change in the training system for doctors and dentists was introduced. It consisted, among others, of: at the end of the post-graduate period, with the introduction of 2-semester practical training in the clinical fields of the 6th year of medical studies and 2-semester practical training in the 5th year of medical and dental studies. Minister, I have a question: Will the restoration of a post-graduate internship allow you to improve your practical skills in the professions of doctors and dentists and will it deepen your theoretical knowledge in the basic fields of medicine and thus increase the safety of your services? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u349	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u350	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that statistics do not lie: for years we have been at one of the last places in terms of the number of doctors. I think most of us also had a problem with access to medical care at home. One thing goes with the other. My question to the Minister is: How do you intend to promote Poland in the short term in terms of access to health care, i.e. how will the number of places in the medical field increase? The second question is: How do we significantly increase the remuneration of resident doctors and doctors later so that they want to treat in Poland rather than travel abroad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u351	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Raczak, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u352	Here I have to follow the rules a little bit, I have to ask the minister a question, but a brief introduction, a few words. The honourable Member said that the dorms are happy with the new law. I'll do it. I realized in some negative way. Did you ever wonder why they were happy? Because this system is so much better than the one that was before. Apart from the fact that dorms are enjoying themselves, doctors from the medical chambers I've been dealing with are very happy in our community. I am surprised that the Member is not happy about this either. You said that the doctors were tired and that this new system would complicate things somehow, it's generally unfavorable, uncomfortable for residents. My question to the Minister, perverse: Minister, is this a bill written for tired doctors, or is this a law written for patients? We have good doctors who will treat patients well, and the new system ensures that. Who is this bill for? It's a formal question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u353	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u354	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, in many speeches, the issue of pay for doctors, those internships, resident doctors, and doctors' wages is discussed. Minister, if you look ahead, given the specific improvement in access to medical services, you see the mechanisms and directions of action that will improve this availability not only in the statistics that we will be conducting in large centres, because there and for the work of young people they are applying for, and for their place of residence. As you can see, how you see the possibility of improving this situation in county hospitals and in this health service, which is far from the road, [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the so-called. Province? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u355	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u356	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about such an important thing, an important group, to say professionally. Well, I wanted to ask about young doctors and interns employed by hospital directors - not paid by the Ministry, just employed by hospital directors. I ask because the Minister, while still head of the Chamber, often mentioned how close this group is to his heart, that it should be paid better, that it should be paid better, that it should be paid better. And I wanted to ask you how you see this in the future, what action will be taken here so that these pre-election announcements of the Minister can be fulfilled. When and how do you see the future of this professional group? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u357	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Jarosław Pinkas, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I think the first day I started my job at the health department as Secretary of State in charge of teaching, I got a message: I'm just begging you to get your internship back. It was information from a friend of mine who's the rector of medical school. Then I went to a conference of the rectors of medical schools, it was very shortly after the nomination, and all the rectors of medical universities, medical universities asked me: When will you start working on the return of post-graduate internship? I was starting to wonder if I could find one person, one environment that wouldn't want us to try to get our post-graduate internship back. And I didn't find it, ladies and gentlemen. The Polish Association of Professional Doctors, the General Medical Council, the Federation of Trade Unions of Health Protection Workers, the Association of Professional Anaesthesiologists, all medical universities, the presidents of medical associations, the Parliament of Polish Students, the Polish Doctoral Association of Medical University Students - all institutions that have an impact on the training of doctors, and the organizations of doctors themselves explicitly demanded that we start to process this law. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a patient bill. This bill gives a sense of security to every Polish patient who has contact with a doctor. The patient needs to know that this doctor is fully educated, that this doctor has a sense of well spent time at the university, has a feeling that the relationship of the master - the student during the internship has had the right results, and feels fit professionally, feels that he will not make a mistake, because this is the category. Ladies and gentlemen, we have extremely high-ranking doctors right now, we have American accreditation. Our doctors work all over the world - I regret that they are leaving, but I assure you that if we change the system, also postgraduate education, and we will have more resources for health care, the doctors will come back to Poland. We give them prospects here and we are currently working in the Ministry on a number of solutions that will lead to no need to leave, at most for international exchange, scientific exchange or after learning new technologies. Ladies and gentlemen, it's extremely important that we stop thinking about felching medicine. We can't afford to have a level playing field in Poland, and that's what this is all about. Stop felcherization. The patient must be absolutely convinced, once again I repeat, that anyone who makes contact with him in healthcare is an absolute professional. This feeling will be given to all young people who didn't have that feeling, who were afraid that in a year and a half, then when there will be no internship, they will be thrown into deep water and will have a great sense of fear, stress that something could happen. You can't compress science in five years. A huge amount of new technologies, a process of learning to communicate with a patient, a whole range of basic science events must be worked out so wisely over the years that the student and later the young doctor have a feeling of full professional skills. This feeling must emanate while working with a patient. We had no choice. It just had to be done and, of course, we're gonna make the next move. These movements include post-graduate education, more rational, more friendly, some significant reduction in medical specialisation. But what we're working on, of course, is another way of paying, including residents. But we can't just do it randomly. I look at your fellow Members who work in academic centres, who work in hospitals, and you have such a situation that a resident doctor often earns more than a doctor on a hospital degree. We can't afford to do this in a clipping. I would very much like my young fellow residents - these are my colleagues, there are many doctors in the room, so your colleagues too - to earn decent money so that they have a sense of stability and social and professional. It's all ahead of us. We don't have much money in the healthcare system. As you can see, we do everything, first of all, to seal the system, and secondly, so that we don't really have to share poverty, only that there is money that is really meant to serve our patients. I would like to thank you very much for the fact that virtually all clubs have clearly supported the activities of the health department, these activities are primarily actions for the benefit of patients. It is the patients themselves who demand this and demand that every graduate of a medical school actually be well educated and give a sense of health safety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u359	Thank you very much. Is the rapporteur of the committee, Madam? [[Thank you.]] No. Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u360	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Are you sure the amendment will simplify the post-graduate course? For the purpose of its implementation, the District Medical Council is to grant the right to pursue a doctor's profession or the right to pursue the profession of dental practitioner for the duration of that traineeship. Does a doctor like that have the same rights and obligations as a doctor in spa? If a doctor who is entitled to treatment ceases to pursue the profession, how will he be able to return to treatment after a long break and under what conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u361	As an amendment was tabled to the proposed proposal at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals (Prints Nos 794 and 901). I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u362	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and the Act on Individual Income Tax. This report is contained in print No 901 and the draft law concerned is in print No 794. On 2 September, the Marshal of the Sejm referred the draft to the first reading held at the meeting of the Sejm on 13 September, while the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considered the draft on 5 October and unanimously adopted the report without any amendments. The purpose of the amendment is to create the head of the district office or the head of the regional branch in which there has been cumulation of certain tasks, legal opportunities to benefit from the assistance of employees employed in another district office or regional department who carry out similar tasks and are not overly burdened with work. This will make better use of the Agency's staff resources and contribute to faster processing of farmers' applications. Another change to improve the agency's operation is an increase from 15 000. PLN up to 40,000. zł amount above which the approval of the Minister of Finance is required to redeem the claim. It is worth noting that this amount has not been valued since 2003. The amendment will also enable the President of the Agency to waive his claims ex officio where the claim has not been recovered as a result of the winding-up or insolvency proceedings carried out and where there is a reasonable presumption that the enforcement procedure will not obtain an amount higher than the costs of the recovery and enforcement of the claim. In addition, the amendment clarifies the way in which the amounts unduly or unduly collected by the company or members of a civil partnership which has been dissolved can be recovered from the debtor's ledger in respect of the appropriations from the budget of the European Union and from the national budget by interrupting the limitation period until the end of the enforcement procedure. The provisions of the draft law also provide a legal basis for deductions of outstanding amounts from the Structural Funds co-financed by the European Union and national public funds to co-finance expenditure from European funds. The amendment also introduces an exemption from income tax on natural persons for the amounts of decommitted claims. The proposed changes are necessary and do not raise any doubts, which is why on behalf of the committee I would like the High Sejm to adopt a government bill amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u363	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! It is my great honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Act of 9 May 2008 on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The rapporteur presented the main changes to this law. I'll just say this bill is expected by farmers. That's why we want to praise her so quickly, because she's needed. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! While discussing this law, I would like to say a few words about a good change, a good change in agriculture, a good change in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Last November, Law and Justice won the election. On the first day, Minister Jurgiel received a letter on his desk that the agency had no payment system prepared and that he would not prepare it on time. That was the reason the farmers didn't get their payments last year by the time they were supposed to get paid. Mr. Marshal, the High Sejm, the Minister of Agriculture, along with the Vice-Ministers and the Agency, began to work hard. This job has been very important. The result of this work is that they will be paid, already advance payments are paid. It's never been in history for advance payments, except for one year when the election was. Then Minister Sawicki paid advance payments to selected farmers - 1,3 billions. And here, ladies and gentlemen, 10 billion zlotys are prepared, which all farmers will receive in advance, are already getting. And this is the result of the hard work of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture from this level of Warsaw to employees in county offices. And this is the good change that farmers expect. This is the good change that the Law and Justice government is making. And that's why, Minister, even though the opposition will scream, because this is the opposition, let's do our job, let's change Poland because farmers expect it. In conclusion, of course, the Law and Justice Club supports this law in its entirety, because it is the implementation of the Law and Justice Programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u365	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the Act amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Act on Individual Income Tax. The bill gives the President of the Agency a great deal of competence for the restructuring and modernisation of agriculture. He lets him move his work between the troops. Such powers will also be exercised by the Regional Director. But the question arises as to whether it will be the transfer of documents or the transfer of documents or the posting of workers. Isn't there going to be a conflict with the current code? Will it not be necessary to change working conditions and wages, and therefore will it not be necessary to terminate contracts? Who will bear the cost of this cooperation and shift of responsibility? Are the funds reserved for this? Indeed, the Act amends the increased, non-valorised amounts from 15 to 40 000 from 2003 onwards. zł, whose redemption will be under the responsibility of the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, but this in turn raises the question whether the budget will not be affected, because the minister will only be able to express his opinion and give his consent above the amount of 40 thousand. The Act also allows the President to waive his debts. The latest proposal for amendments is the provision of an exemption from income tax on individuals for the amount of the Agency's decommitted claims. Here is the agreement, because of course they would spin a spiral of debt, it is clear and logical, but ladies and gentlemen, farmers, these words I am directing to you, the efficiency of this agency will depend on your financial liquidity, the efficiency of acceptance of applications and the timely payment of payments. Should this agency be headed by a man whose greatest asset is that he is a supporter of the PiS? Thanks to this amendment, we give the President of the Agency a huge power, even in the matter of redemptions. He's gonna decide that one-man decision. So you farmers will have to answer the question of whether you will have a level playing field with those who publicly declare their support for the PiS. Our fears are not unfounded. For 11 months this power has shown very precisely that in society there are those who are on the right side and are real patriots, and those of the second kind. Do you, Minister of Agriculture, take full responsibility for the man who heads the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, and will take care of the interests of each Polish farmer with the same care? The Civic Platform will support the proposed law because it is in the interest of the Polish farmer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u367	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Jaskoła, the Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u368	Dear Marshal, On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to express my position on the amendment of the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. I must admit, although I have great sympathy for farmers, that I personally oppose the special treatment of certain social, productive groups through special advantages. We have different farmers. One of the farmers, who is a parliamentarian, is coming to the Sejm by car of the Porsche brand, and therefore not necessarily everyone must be treated the same way. Ladies and gentlemen, in this law, as usual, the Law and Justice have already accustomed us to it, are very good, good and unfortunately catastrophic elements. It's catastrophic, because there's some socialism here, and before everything else, I'd say that before I go into a specific action, a particular consideration, there's some kind of discretion. I don't like it very much, very little of that, the applicants have found and invoked that such elements are also in the Local Government Act, it is about this unfortunate tax remission, the remission of debts. Ladies and gentlemen, I am lucky to be investigating the loss in my district, the decisions made by the local government. I wanted to tell you that when I examine the last five years of tax waivers by local governments in my district, I am looking for a lot of irregularities that I hope to report to the prosecution as a suspicion of committing a crime. That's the main problem we're putting on here. Well, I'm not afraid at all. the first important update that the head of the office may delegate tasks to other units. This is actually perfectly normal, there are units more overloaded, and others are not, but it's an increase from 15 to 40,000. the amount above which this remission was controlled by the Ministry of Finance, it is again completely inconclusive because it does not matter that this amount has not been valorized since 2003. That's pretty big money. We see that there is a lot of redemptions: in 2015 - 22 million, earlier - 10.5, so we see a dramatic increase in these redemptions. I'm asking if it suddenly turns out that we're going to be dealing with some sort of situation, that a posted agency employee is going to be a generous prince with whom, in accordance with the principle of knowing a rabbit, will cause someone to have a tax waiver and another person to have one? I am, of course, opposed to such large taxes or taxes at all, especially PIT, but let us remember that PIT farmers do not pay, income tax, and this causes some kind of discretion. Recognition is always a pathology, and pathology is usually born for corrupt reasons, one should talk about it. What kind of mechanism do we have here to secure that this corruption is not going to happen? In addition, changes are shown in the final justification of the Act. He's actually slowing down... Please consider redemption, redemption should be treated as some kind of income, according to the law. In addition, these people are completely exempt from income tax. It's very dangerous. Of course, other points that can be accepted are very different, i.e. the Agency's recovery of claims also in securing EU programmes, which is very positive, and we agree with that in order to secure this asset. Once again, I stress that the most important thing for us is this lack of control. The Ministry of Finance, whatever to say, kept a register and controlled this sum of 40 thousand redemptions. At the moment, however, we probably won't have this control, and this decentralization is very dangerous, because it causes us to imagine an employee who will be employed for six months, will be a scapegoat, will die to everyone and then be fired. The basic question is: Who will then be responsible for these redemptions, and to whom will the claims be addressed? This dangerous situation is troubling us. Kukiz Club will hold off on this particular bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the basis of the Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u369	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u370	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting my position on behalf of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, included in print No. 794, the committee's report is contained in print No. 901. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law of 9 May 2008 on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture presented by the Government of Law and Justice aims to introduce changes that rationalise the functioning of the Agency. The detailed solutions contained in the submission were the subject of our in-depth analysis. The provisions enabling the President of the Agency to waive its claims ex officio should the claims laid down in the Act not be recovered and where there is a reasonable suspicion that enforcement costs will not be covered as a result of enforcement. The submission also contains legal provisions enabling the management of the county offices and regional branches of the agencies to benefit from the assistance of employees employed in another county office or regional department who carry out similar tasks. This is a good direction, in the modern assessment worth considering even on the scale of the entire administration, of course following reliable and multi-directional analyses. The proposal presented to the High House also provides for an increase from 15 to 40 000. zł amount above which the approval of the Minister of Finance is required to redeem the claim. After the explanations provided by the Ministry, we considered this to be a legitimate change, although of course it initially aroused our interest due to the concern for the state of public finances of modern times. The draft also contains provisions that clearly govern the way in which amounts unduly or unduly collected payments are made by a company or members of a civil partnership which has been dissolved. We consider this to be the right direction, too. The High House should adopt rules that meet the requirement of ambiguity, as I would remind you that the ambiguity of the law is one of the biggest problems that citizens who have to deal with the law on a daily basis. The submission shall also include provisions allowing the recovery of the amounts entered in the debtor's ledger in respect of the appropriations from the budget of the European Union and the national budget by interrupting the limitation period until the date of termination of the enforcement procedure. This provision will allow the limitation period to be interrupted in order to recover the debts included in the debtor's ledger. By looking at economic debts that are de facto blocked by the possibility of faster, more efficient development, let us consider the provision to be rational. The project also proposes the creation of a legal basis for deductions of outstanding claims from European funds, e.g. from a financial instrument to support fisheries, but also from other instruments and national public funding to co-finance expenditure from European funds, e.g. from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund, but also from other instruments. This could, of course, raise doubts, but this mechanism enshrined in the Act and communicated to all concerned will certainly contribute to improving financial management and improving the flow of funds. The draft also provides for exemption from income tax on individuals from the amounts of deferred claims referred to in Article. 24 of the Act of 9 May 2008 on the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. This is, of course, the consequence of the specific nature of the matter covered by this legislation. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, considering the draft law submitted to the High House, has not made any amendments. It seems that as of today, all clubs agree with this project as substantive and purposeful. To sum up, the Modern Posel Club at this stage will also not make any amendments and will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u371	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u372	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, as he said in the debate at first reading, will support this project. This is not a controversial project, it is not a staff project, it allows the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture to recover funds that are in some proceedings, are due to it, so, for budgetary reasons, it is good for this project to be further processed. It could actually end here, but like one of the previous speakers, I will use this speech to address the issue of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. I'm not gonna talk about a good change... [[No, sir, that's enough.]] ...yeah, I'm about to finish, although I'm going to talk about advance payments for area subsidies and say it's a good idea, good action. It's good and it's good. The situation in agriculture is deteriorating, so it is good that farmers, seeing the inability to influence or the poor impact of the Ministry in market matters, will at least be able to receive advance payments in advance. I just want to say that this is obviously not gonna be an extra payment, but it's gonna be an advance on what was supposed to be paid in the spring. But it's good in this difficult situation. By using the Minister's presence, I will also ask the question, which is also related to subsidies, to the activities of the restructuring agencies. Namely, I am talking about a mechanism which was won by Poland a few years ago, a mechanism of soft fruit subsidies. Is it true that there will be no raspberry payments for processing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u373	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, if any of your fellow Members would like to speak, I would like to invite you. I'll close the list after the first question. Mrs Margaret Płępek has the floor. Question time - 1.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft of this law assumes an increase from 15 to 40 thousand. PLN of the amount above which the approval of the Minister of Finance will be required to redeem the claim. This amount was fixed in 2003 and has not yet been valorized, hence my question, which was already asked from this pulpit: On what basis was the amount of 40,000 proposed in the draft law calculated. Evil? And one more thing. The President of the Agency will be able to waive his claims ex officio if they have not been recovered as a result of winding-up or insolvency proceedings. This gives rise on the one hand to justification, and on the other hand it extends the area to abuse. I have a question: Will the Agency be required to publish a circle of entities who have been granted a reduction in repayment in the form of redemptions or deferrals and the amounts of these operations? In this connection, I also wanted to ask you whether control over the debt waiver decisions will be strengthened? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u375	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u376	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the consultation report we can read that the most common comments of the actors concerned an increase of at least 100,000. PLN of the amount to which the President of ARiMR may decide on his own behalf to redeem the ARiMR's claims in connection with the performance of his tasks financed exclusively by national public funds and to create the possibility for ARiMR to appoint special-purpose funds to enable ARiMR's active involvement in the restructuring processes carried out by banks towards customers receiving support under certain conditions. The first proposal was partially implemented as the amount was increased to 40 000. I would therefore like to ask: Will the Ministry consider the implementation of the proposed solutions in the future and, if this is not possible, why? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u377	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u378	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, Polish agriculture is waiting for the effects of this law. The situation in virtually all agricultural sectors is tragic, and we hear it actually at every committee meeting that is being held. However, as we have heard from Mr Jaskoly, there have been numerous abuses in the countryside in connection with redundancies. And now my question: What additional mechanisms will be put in place to prevent such abuses, undue dismissals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u379	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u380	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The project included in Seym Printing No. 794 and No. 901 assumes an increase of up to 40 thousand. PLN 15 000 currently in force zł. The amendments envisaged introduce restrictions for the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development in relation to the possibility of redemption of claims. The President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture will not be bound on behalf of the office on the limit of the amount from which the claims will be remitted. I ask the question of many farmers from the Płock-Cichan district, but I assume that this problem may concern the whole area: Are the proposed solutions compatible with the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 25 August 2015 in the Journal of Laws. U. poz. 1345, and whether the amount entered in the abovementioned act will count against the amount entered in connection with § 1 point 13b (3)? The next question relates to the method of settlement of the above mentioned question. the amounts and whether the proposals will continue to be dealt with in accordance with point 6 (b) of Section 1 of the Council of Ministers Regulation on the detailed scope and means of carrying out certain tasks [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and whether the formal conditions as well as the proposals under consideration so far will be dealt with in this way in a new order or in the current regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u381	Thank you very much. You have the floor of Mr Jerzy Małecki, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u382	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about raising the amount of redemption to 40,000. zł. I have a question: In recent years, how many cases have been decommitted to this amount? And the second question is to reassure the Member of Kukiz15: What conditions must be fulfilled so that the claim can be surrendered? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u383	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u384	Mr. Marshal! The question is addressed to the Minister. As you know, this year many farms have been affected by the failure of various types of random events: hailing, frosting, drought. Financial assistance of 800 PLN and 400 PLN to 1 ha - 800 PLN has been proposed for those who have insurance and 400 PLN for those who do not have insurance. But at the same time conditions were set, among others. 70% of losses, which makes it impossible for many farms to count on these resources, even the majority of farms. The Rural Development Programme and one of the actions it contains to restore the potential of natural disaster-destructed production is a hope. Question: "In what phase is the admission, announcement of calls for this action and are the terms and conditions of this action established?" Can farmers expect to be activated this year, which will enable them to rebuild the assets destroyed by natural disasters? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u385	Thank you. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In my speech on behalf of the club, I talked about how the ministry wasn't prepared that the former government had left behind, the former minister left the agency unprepared, and that it hadn't started the system. Now the question, Minister: What solution did you take in the agency, that everything is ready at the moment? Will those companies that made big money on the system and on the operation of this system continue to make money, or is there another solution? And second question. At this point, we're paying an advance. And when there is a full payment and if the agency is already ready for full payment, i.e. Did she verify all the applications? Because we know there were problems with that last year because former Minister Sawicki didn't prepare the agency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u387	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u388	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to go back to the issue of these waivers, which was also raised by several Members during the speeches. Now, as for this amount of redemptions and the way, that's where we had this information, and that's where the question is whether it's going to be published in the Public Information Bulletin or whether the public will have access to this information, because, as we know, the best anti-corruption system is, however, the social supervision of decisions taken by the public administration. Will this disclosure be applied to the extent that it should be applied? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u389	Thank you. Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u390	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With reference to this law, I would like to thank you very much for seeing the problems that farmers are facing in this project. However, Minister, I have a question: Will the introduction of the proposed regulation be without prejudice to the jurisdiction of the local head of the district office and the regional branch director, and thus will not result in any changes for the farmer as regards the place of application and the measures taken in the course of the procedure for granting the aid concerned, including the adoption of administrative decisions, provisions and certificates? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u391	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jack Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm answering questions about the bill we're working on. It's $40,000. This was the amount determined during the consultation of both the social side, agricultural organisations and the Ministry of Finance, because without the approval of the Ministry of Finance to proceed with this project, we could not propose this change. So all those who reported any doubts on the fact that there may be irregularities here, I assure you that we have analysed this together with the Ministry of Finance and we have come to the conclusion that this is the ceiling which, on the one hand, is safe and, on the other hand, simplifies the procedure and does not cause unnecessary extension. As regards the obligation to publish a list of persons to whom aid has been granted, in the case of an amount exceeding 40 000. such an obligation will exist, and below there is no such obligation, but of course it is information to which access is possible. As regards the conditions under which such redemptions take place, I would like to remind you of what the article already says. Twenty-five of the current bill. In general, it must be said that these are emergency situations and quite precisely defined: if no debt has been recovered in the case of winding-up or insolvency proceedings, if it is assumed that enforcement proceedings will not obtain an amount higher than the costs of the investigation, if the debtor's residence and residence cannot be determined - I read it briefly - if the execution threatens the existence of the debtor. These are the same records as in the Tax Order and the same conditions must be met by the debtor in order to submit an application and possibly obtain such remission. With regard to the number of cases that have so far taken place in these areas, ranges of up to 15 thousand. And between 15 and 40,000, these were generally individual issues, a few a year, so I don't think there is a problem here. Rather, it is about situations where the agency simply has claims that it is no longer able to recover. These claims have existed for years and are an apparent income, as someone has said, of the state budget or an apparent influence on the state, i.e. one that will never be achieved. As far as the issue of recruitment for the financing of losses on farms affected by disasters is concerned, the procedure has already been drawn up, all documents have already been accepted. Such recruitment will soon be announced by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. As regards the issue of readiness for payment, it must be borne in mind that advances are paid only on the basis of administrative control, i.e. after checking the documents submitted by the beneficiaries by the farmers. Here, the willingness to pay advances is complete. On the other hand, as regards the payment of this remaining part of the payment, the 30% that can be paid from 1 December to the end of June, it must be borne in mind that there will be farms where the on-the-spot check will have to take place, there will still be a decision-making procedure for each farmer, because advances are paid without a decision, so the procedure will continue. However, the agency is ready to make payments as well. I'm sure she's better prepared than she was prepared last year at the same time, and much better. As regards the issue of farmers relating to the amendment of this law, it was a question of whether farmers would change their place of application when workers from other centres will be appointed. Of course not. Nothing changes for farmers. The point is that when congestion arises in one place, in one office, another office can help administratively, but of course farmers will continue to be served at the same premises, in the same county offices and branches where they have been served so far. Thank you all very much for working on this project, for supporting the project. I am convinced that this is one step, perhaps a small step here, towards support for agriculture, but these steps recently we have done so much that this has resulted in today's adoption not only by the Sejm, but also by the finance committee of over PLN 10 billion for payments to farmers. I wouldn't agree with the idea that this isn't helping farmers, because I've talked about it many times, meeting farmers. Farmers emphasize that this is a step in the right direction, because the farmer would like subsidies - after all these are subsidies for 2016 - to be received in 2016 in order to be able to invest in production next year. [[Yeah, of course.]] So this is really a huge help for farmers. This is a huge effort for the state budget, but I think this effort will pay off for all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u393	Thank you. I would like the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Mr Zbigniew Dolata. No. Okay, thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes (prints Nos 879 and 911). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I present a draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes, print No 879. The first reading of this project took place at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 6 October. After this examination, the committee requests the adoption of a draft law and presents the relevant report to the High House in print no. 911. The project includes amendments to the Act of 5 February 2015 on payments under direct support schemes. These changes result from an analysis by the Ministry of Agriculture of the functioning of the new direct support scheme and from the need to adapt sugar beet payments to the new conditions for granting them due to the abolition of quota sugar production on 1 October 2017. This analysis of the functioning of the new system during these periods is consistent with the reservations that the European Commission has submitted to the new direct support system that operates in Poland. Therefore, in August this year the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development notified the European Commission of the new solutions contained in the project. In addition, the 2013 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union provided for the possibility for Member States to review their direct support schemes, of which the Polish Government has benefited by presenting the draft law under discussion today. The amendments introduced by the Act concern protein crops, soft fruit, sugar beet, cattle, cows, sheep and goats, as well as support for small farms and the conditions and arrangements for granting advances on direct payments. Now, High Izbo, I will discuss the proposed changes one at a time. In place of existing payments to protein crops, it is proposed to introduce two separate forms of support, i.e. payments to legumes for grain and payments to fodder plants. With this change, the existing support potential will be better exploited in this segment. As regards changes in soft fruit payments, due to the improvement of the cost-effectiveness of raspberries production, it is proposed to move away from supporting this crop. The strawberries will, of course, continue to be supported. In the case of sugar beet payments, the change is to depart from the principle of granting payments only to the area so called. quota crops for the total area covered by the contract. The changes in payments to bovine animals and cows consist in reducing the limit of animals on the holding to be covered by the payment from 30 to 20 units. This change is in line with the support policy recommended by the European Commission in this sector. Further changes concern payments to sheep, the change of the date from autumn to spring, the holding of these animals in order to improve the management of the herd and better on-the-spot checks carried out by the paying agency. Further amendments concern simplification of applications. These are data from the computerised database of goats and sheep, which are used for the purpose of the application. Further amendment concerns small farms. This is the case where the amount of support does not exceed EUR 1250. The changes relate to the calculation of the amount of support. The next amendment concerns those small farms which, following the acquisition of a decrease or acquisition of another holding, will exceed the said support limit of EUR 1250. In this case, it will also be possible to withdraw from the scheme for small farms after 30 September of the year of application. The penultimate amendment facilitates the agency's control activities by obliging farmers to provide the necessary assistance to the controller. The last amendment proposed in this project is the amendment which concerns advances paid to farmers for direct payments so that there is no unjustified payment of these advances. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the first reading of this draft law on 6 October, the members of the committee agreed to accept the proposed amendments, for which I warmly thank you on behalf of the committee. Once again at this point, I request that the High House adopt a draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u395	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u396	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes, prints No. 879 and 911. All the proposed changes are going in the right direction. These are due to the analysis made by the Minister for Agriculture of the operation of the direct support system so far, as well as to the recommendations suggested by the European Commission. All the proposed amendments have been notified by the Government to the European Commission. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u397	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u398	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you on behalf of the Civic Platform a position regarding the government draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes, print Nos 879 and 911. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important bill, this is a very important bill. As a farmer, I think it would be best if there were no such subsidies at all, but with one condition - in Europe as a whole - for all farmers. These are measures to compensate for production costs, public funds. Do they perform their function? We'd have to ask each other a question individually. But since they are already there, any country in accordance with the European Union directives can review its decisions - what the President, the rapporteur, has said - can reduce it, can increase it, can maintain it in its current form, within certain limits. Those provisions contained in the current drafts were notified to the European Commission on 1 August 2016. There is a difficulty in view of the fact that many of the amendments made here are correct, but many are wrong in my opinion, they are not going in the right direction. I would like to say that these changes are in most cases in support of those farms where a downward trend is observed. I do not know if it is good, if a given producer - does not matter the form of ownership that it is - does not want to produce a given product, whether it concerns cows or other products, to receive support due to its size. An example is the pigs, which are cost-effective, and at the moment and large operators, despite cost-effectiveness, do not want to enter production. This law is often cost-effective to farmers themselves and has no effect at all. I'm talking about art here. Two about greening. Greening in our weather and climate conditions does not have any effect, but causes costs. We are completing the procedure of the European Union, and the effect is no, and even worse, even I would say so, soil structures in these weather and water conditions, in resources, in the amount of precipitation, the frequency of precipitation we have. What I'm saying is that there are different limits, just like with legumes, up to 75 hectares and then gradation. It's the right record. I think he'll defend himself in time. I would also like to say the following thing. As announced by Minister Jurgiel in the area of large farms and according to various television shows, interviews... My point is that, at the initiative of the Ombudsman, the Minister started action to reduce the reduction for large farms with regard to direct payments by taking into account the reduction in the basis for the reduction in employment costs. However, this solution is not in our bill, so I would like to make the necessary amendment on behalf of the Platform Club. I would like to say to you that this applies to 120 farms across the country, large and smaller, with subsidies of 150 000. Euros. I must tell you that, personally, as an agricultural producer, I am shocked that according to the latest Eurostat data in Europe, 12% have arrived. farmers' cooperatives that are far better off in this crisis than [[♪ The bell ♪]] other companies and other entities of that nature. It is beautiful and it is good information for us, for our agricultural minister Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel. That's why the Platform Club is making an amendment to your marshal's hands and voting in spite of trouble...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u399	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u400	...and the confusion behind this bill, positively, and that the project is burdened with errors...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u401	Thank you very much, sir. You have the floor of an MP...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u402	...then, as I said before, Mr. Marshal, allow me to hand you over, make an amendment to you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u403	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u404	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes. The aim of the project is to amend the rules for granting payments in sectors of particular economic importance whose current profitability is insufficient. This sector, which is very important for many sectors of agriculture and the agri-food industry, the potential of which is underestimated, is high protein crops. Other forms of support are proposed in the new solution, i.e. payments to protein crops for grain legumes payments and payments to fodder plants. This is a move in the right direction, but too conservative. It will not allow the potential of Polish agriculture to be exploited. I believe that there is a need to step up work to reduce the use of GMOs. It is therefore necessary to increase the supply of Polish protein used in feed. During the first reading of the draft of this Act, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development discussed the amount of support for grain legumes farmers. The Minister stated that the payments would be degressive, i.e. a higher, 100% rate of aid for the first 75 hectares of crops on the farm, and above these 75 hectares would be a lower rate, 50%. At this point, I would like to make it clear that I do not agree with the reduction of grain legumes payments to 50% of the amount of aid above the area of 75 hectares. It is necessary to increase the area of crops to which aid for protein crops will be granted in full, so that feed producers cannot explain the lack of possibility to purchase plants due to too small, uneven lots. I therefore ask the Minister to increase the area of crops to which 100% will be granted payment, up to 150 ha. The increase in the area of crops on the holding to which a full payment may be granted for legume crops for sowing may be considered necessary as an action to adapt grain supply to the potential demand of feed-producing plants. The actions proposed by me will also lead to the fact that in the hands of Polish farmers will remain the money that is currently being sent to the USA, Brazil or Argentina for soy shots of GMOs. And this height is really high, because it is over PLN 4 billion a year. These are measures that should remain in Polish agriculture, increasing the profitability of agricultural holdings. During the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 19 May on the use of protein crops in feedingstuffs, a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture informed that imports into Poland of GMO soybeans, the main component of feed, are currently 2 to 3 million t per year. Judging by the solutions proposed by the Proceded Law, it will be difficult to meet the demand for protein crops up to the indicated height, which is necessary to ensure independence from imported GMO soybeans and to create a self-sufficient system of fodder legumes. It is also necessary to increase the envelope intended to support protein crops, as by reviewing the profitability of individual crops whose production is supported by direct payments, it can be concluded that the cost-effectiveness of legumes is very low. To sum up: increasing the area of crops and increasing the subsidies will ensure food security of the country and, on the other hand, increase the profitability of agriculture by leaving at least PLN 4 billion in the pockets of Polish farmers. Finally, I would like to remind you, particularly from the Committee on Agriculture, that it is necessary to speed up the work on the draft law on the use of protein crops in feedingstuffs that has already been drawn up, so that soon abroad [[♪ The bell ♪]] corporations could or wanted to use high protein plants from Polish fields. The Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour of the proposed wording of the law, hoping to take account of the solutions proposed by me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u405	Thank you very much. [[Well done, Mr President.]] Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u406	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The bill responds to the concerns of the European Commission regarding the part of the payments for production used in Poland in 2015 and 2016. According to the proposalor, in accordance with Union legislation, this form of payment can only be used in sectors of particular economic, social and environmental importance that are in difficulty and only to the extent necessary to maintain production at the level from 2009 to 2013. The main changes proposed in the draft concern the abolition of the raspberry aid - soft fruit aid is to be granted only for strawberries - covering the entire EU sugar beet area, aid for 20 cows and not, as yet, up to 30 cows, grain legumes and fodder plant subsidies (only up to 75 hectares), simplifying the application procedure for support for sheep and goat farming (no animal identification numbers are required with the application). Some changes will, of course, be rational and necessary because of the reservations of the European Commission, but we already hear the voices of farmers for whom these changes may be harmful. There was no public consultation with farmers, which is a pity, because this particular project requires it. After all, this concerns money which is addressed to farmers, and it is important to look at their arguments in the context of the proposed changes. We believe it's Art. 16 should remain in the current wording, i.e. the payment to bovine animals and cows should continue to be up to 30 units, not, as proposed by the designers, up to 20 units. Under current conditions, holding with a number of 30 bovine animals it is still a small farm, we do not see any justification for increasing support for even smaller farms, and we believe that this limit should not be lowered. The pool of direct payments remains unchanged in this respect, so this proposed change will not have a significant impact on the economics of farming. With regard to the consequences - milk producers will surely lose on these changes. The direction in the European Union is clearly defined in this case and leads to a reduction in milk production. At the same time, prices for dairy products, such as butter, are beginning to increase in recent weeks. Milk prices are rising in concentration - there was a surplus here only recently, and now it is beginning to be missing in Poland, which is the result of compensation mechanisms when reducing milk production. The abolition of raspberry subsidies according to the Podkarpackie Agricultural Chamber may result in the liquidation of many plantations in the area. Of course, changes to subsidies cannot safeguard the interests of all parties, but it is important that changes to the directly concerned social group are not constructed entirely without their participation. In view of the above, the Posel Club Modern is in favour of directing the project to further work on the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u407	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u408	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project in its content does not raise much controversy, except for one element, which I would like to raise, which I asked in the previous point - it is about giving up subsidies for the production of raspberries. I have heard the argument from the rapporteur, she may at this moment be present, that the income situation or the price situation in this sector is at a satisfactory level, and therefore there is no need for to support it with extraordinary subsidies. What, on the other hand, have we seen in this market, and what have we seen in recent years? This market is a very volatile market, year by year there are large fluctuations in buying prices, prices obtained by farmers. Indeed, the last two seasons were seasons of good prices, but it quickly results in growing plantings and all experts, those who are involved in producing berries, soft fruits, economic experts, among others. experts from the Institute of Agricultural Economics and Food Economy predict drastic in the coming years, if not to use a harsher word, fall in buying prices and prices obtained for raspberries. This will be due to increased production and therefore increased supply, so with existing demand prices are expected to fall. Eliminating this mechanism for years at this point will cause us to face a major crisis in a moment, and - here I suggest to the Minister rather than criticize him - then these subsidies may prove to be necessary. In addition, the system recommended by the European Union, the system of contract agreements, could be well implemented in this respect. Namely, supply could be balanced with demand, contractual contracts could be linked, and even better supported by the system of subsidies for those who would be covered by such a system, I am talking about growers here, and this could cause us to avoid price fluctuations in this market in the long term. So I would like to suggest further consideration as to whether it is necessary to eliminate the raspberries market subsidies that have had an effect in recent years, which have helped many growers in difficult times - this mechanism operates nice for a few years - and whether it is worth considering that this mechanism should not be permanently thrown into the basket, as it is proposed. Besides, other solutions that are less controversial in this bill, as I said at the beginning. As a PSL, we will make decisions on this issue in the course of further work on this project. With regard to the vote in the final, which is the third reading, we will consider if there are changes made or not to support it, and if there are no changes, at least I declare for myself that if I do not pay for raspberries, which I consider to be a big mistake, I will vote against this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u409	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u410	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I will present our position on the government draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes, contained in print No. 879. Today's bill introduces changes to direct support instruments for Polish agriculture. The government had to modify the payment calculation system in 2017 after taking into account the trend of production in 2014. The Payment Act verified the situation of individual sectors. According to the Regulation, production-related support can only be granted to those sectors of agricultural production which are particularly important for economic, social or environmental reasons and are in difficulty. The bill provides for changes in payments to protein crops. Protein crops are to be used as a basis for the production of feed as a result of this change. I count on what was also emphasized during the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development that Polish farmers will grow legumes and use them for the production of feed. This gives us an opportunity to open up a new market in this area. The changes were also made in the young cattle and cows, sheep and soft fruit and beet sector. The worrying thing about this law is that the government did not take care of the opinion of important agricultural organisations. It seems that this would allow for a more holistic view of the case. For me, non-agricultural people, it is surprising that the Act does not place a greater emphasis on small farms for which subsidies would be an important supporting element. Controversy at the committee meeting, but also in discussions with farmers, raises the rules on greening. I believe that the obligation of Polish farmers to green is unnecessary, simply Sisyphus work, generating losses. Importantly, the proposed law does not have any impact on the State budget as it is fully covered by the Union budget. Despite the doubts raised previously by the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, it supports the procedated bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u411	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice have the floor. [[There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u412	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question will also be about what I mentioned earlier, namely protein crops, protein feeds. As a country we are 70% , about 70% addicted to the import of high protein feed, that is, in our case, this is genetically modified soybean. The world's most soy, about 45% - I don't know if you know - China is imported. And now is my question. We're addicted to this soy at a very high level of 70%. What are the mechanisms currently envisaged for this soy to be suddenly absent? It's easy to imagine, because it's enough that China will not import 45 and 48.49% because such a demand can be jumping, just one password is enough, and what will Poland do then? What's the mechanism because we're completely helpless then? And another request, also related to my previous speech, to say what plants, which are supported by direct payments, have what profitability. What is this cost-effectiveness? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u413	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u414	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project presented and examined also mentions changes in the amount of sugar beet aid. We're talking about moving away from the quoted area, about adding to the crop area. Minister, the question is: What will be the amount of the aid, or is it similar to the level of sugar subsidies that we have calculated per hectare - they have been in force for many years - or at the level of the last payments per hectare, similar to about EUR 400? Will the amount of these subsidies stimulate and influence sugar beet cultivation, because we know what perturbations are also associated with the regulation of the sugar market? After all, we have experience and Mr Jurgiel also has it, as was the case between 2005 and 2007, and we know how it was later at the level of Poland - the European Union. This is a very important issue for farmers in the Sandomierz region and Sandomierz Highlands, as this area is linked to this [[♪ The bell ♪]] cultivation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u415	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u416	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, I have a question: Are you planning to ask the most important agricultural organisations for an opinion on the proposed law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u417	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u418	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The world has escaped genetically from our production. Our system of subsidies according to economics specialists in 10% stimulates production and 90% acres of ownership. We don't support production, we don't stimulate production. Do you think this is the way to make global production more efficient and more efficient? Because it really indicates our place, our position in Europe. Today we are in 21st place in terms of efficiency of management. I know that agriculture is extremely fragmented today, and I know that it needs support and assistance, but these tools, which are currently included in the provisions on subsidies, can be stimulated in different ways. Are you convinced that this element of stimulation is appropriate? I'm gonna risk saying that there's no error in the previous period. I think the time will answer that question, it will show that I'm right, and if so, Minister, you need to change it quickly, because [[♪ The bell ♪]] Farms in the state in which they are now ours will not change our position at such a rate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u419	Thank you. You have the floor of Mr Jerzy Małecki, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u420	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are proceeding with a new bill amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes, and on this subject I have a question. There is a catalog of animals whose breeding requires support, namely cattle, cows, sheep and goats. I therefore have a question as to whether the Ministry takes into account the extension of this catalogue to include animals that are also breeding animals, such as deer, dwarfs and muflons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u421	Thank you. Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u422	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With reference to this law, I would like to thank you very much for seeing in this bill the problems that farmers are facing. In order to meet the needs of farmers, including sheep farmers, the Law and Justice Government proposed a change to facilitate the management of the herd, in particular with a view to restoring the stock, i.e. the stock. missing, which is currently taking place at the turn of August and September. On the other hand, the current period of detention means the need to keep the ewes declared for payment, including those missing, until 20 November, which significantly interferes with breeding work. In addition, the possibility of missing only after 20 November causes that some ewes may already be lost. Minister, my question is: Did the current form of the law make it much more difficult for sheep breeding and, of course, for making payments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u423	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u424	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The problem with the production of protein feed is also due to the fact that the post-extract sharps we produce - e.g. We have very good rapeseed, from which we have very good shots - it is exported by owners of production plants, processing rape abroad. As a result, there is a deficit in our country, we must import high-protein feed from abroad, especially soy buckwheat, which is basically exclusively genetically modified on the market. Minister, or in view of these changes, which lead to an increase in the production of domestic protein, but I suspect that this will not be enough, action will also be taken to ensure that this post-extract buckwheat, which is produced in Poland, remains in the country, which would reduce the amount of buckwheat imported for animals from abroad, the genetically modified one which is less healthy than the Polish buckwheat. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A post-extractive one that's healthy. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u425	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u426	Mr. Marshal! Minister! A very short question emerging in the field, namely, in what phase is the implementation of the contract agreement system, because many growers, not only fruit, but also other products, expect that this system, imposed in a way, and well, by the European Commission, will regulate certain relationships that are incorrect today on the market and could be correct. In short: When can we expect the draft of such a contract and the rules for establishing contracting contracts to balance production with supply and link it to contracts between raw material producers and recipients of this raw material from farmers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u427	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Ryszard Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to briefly present a draft law, which has actually already been discussed, so I will not discuss it in detail here, because the rapporteur has done so, so by discussing the most important things, reminding some things, I would also like to address the questions that have been raised. You could say that the essence of the changes that have been made is... The Act deals with direct payments and changes relate to production-related support instruments. Let's say the first basic thing. If we hadn't brought it in... Here I hear that there are various reservations, but I can already see that when the 2017 campaign ended, because this is the time, I could very likely say that there would be recovery from the European Union, i.e. we would return some funds. Right now, we're smart before harm, not after damage. This is the first basic objective of this law to avoid the dangers that arose from it. For us, it is essential that these funds are paid correctly and in accordance with existing EU law. Payment cases relate to two areas. The first requires changes to production-related support instruments due to experience gained in the first years of application of the new support scheme. We remember that there has been a year since the 2015-2016 campaign. It was the first year of application of direct payments. Because of the concerns of the European Commission, our review had to be carried out here. This is the first basic pool of problems. The second area requires adjustment of payments, which is linked to the abolition of sugar quotas on 1 October 2017. It's like two areas. I would like to emphasise once again and to say very strongly that, in accordance with EU rules, these forms of payment, the forms of payment relating to 11 types of payments that are under direct payments... These include cattle, cows, sheep, goats, protein crops, hops, starch potatoes, sugar beets, tomatoes, soft fruit, flax and fibrous hemp. [[Tobacco.]] This applies to the situation in those markets that are in difficulty... The surcharges are possible for those, first of all, who are in a difficult situation. Secondly, only to the extent necessary to maintain production between 2009 and 2013, i.e. the reference period, 2009 and 2013. If it is found that as a result of the current analysis of individual markets this is not preserved, then we need to pay attention and modify payments not in all areas, just those which have been identified here as not meeting these requirements: namely cattle and cows, firstly, protein crops, this is another group, sugar beets - for known reasons, tomatoes and soft fruit. This is the first, basic thing, that the payments that are made... This is also the answer to Mr Aichler that these payments cannot stimulate the growth of production. It's just the rules. they have been accepted and we must comply with the law. The payments that are used here cannot stimulate the growth of production. On 1 August, we notified the European Commission of the changes, this was the whole procedure. Here thanks to the team, also for the team of experts who had to take into account the analysis. It was necessary to rely on such rapid but reliable statistical data, which allowed us to retain certain possibilities so that these measures would not be taken from us. I will refer to the specific payments already made. Legume plants intended for grain. We've crashed the high-protein subsidies. The envelopes that have been preserved so far are very important. We didn't reduce it, it's also a very important element, because in such details it was important to show... We had to demonstrate, prove that it could stay, only the internal structure of spending these funds must be different. That's for example. it took place in the case of protein crops, where we broke the payments: for legumes intended for grain and for feed crops. And now, for protein plants intended for grain, so that growth can be stimulated, because we know that it didn't work when it comes to the possibility of obtaining more protein feeds. Regarding the size of 75 ha, the fact that we have applied degressivity is not the result of our will, but of the public consultation that was carried out earlier, and also from such very important indications that it would not be fair that it would lead to different practices that would deform the idea of the financial resources allocated to this financial envelope. That's the first thing. The second thing, to feed plants, was already mentioned here. There's a whole group of feed plants for which it's intended. It should also be remembered that these plants must not be ploughed. So it's actually for feed. As far as 20 or 30 pieces are concerned, we have decided to reduce these levels of aid to the herd, to 20 cows and cattle, as a result of specific analyses and expertise that have shown us some trends. Another important thing is that an envelope has been preserved, and that it is estimated that there will be increased support for 80% farmers who have 50% in their resources national stock of bovine animals, and for 80% farmers with 40% the national herd of cows. There's been a very thorough analysis here. They are available, we will be happy to share them if there is a need for a detailed explanation. On the other hand, when it comes to soft fruit, I will return to the rules that have already been adopted, which are in force at the moment when we have this procedure now, and that law must be respected. Namely, when it comes to soft fruits and the exclusion of raspberries, we are the world's largest producer of raspberries, first of all. Secondly, the Commission says: if you want, please add more, but we will take this money away from you. If we have such an alternative, and there were discussions and consultations, then we had to make an essential decision to carry out a bill now to introduce it into the system so that it was not the subject of the next campaign and to use it as an envelope for other soft fruits. This is another case. As far as the other detailed references are concerned, I would just like to add that direct payments, the conditions of which the proposed law governs, are financed entirely from the EU budget. Therefore, the proposed law does not have budgetary implications, that is one thing. The second point is that the proposed changes to the rules for granting direct payments make it necessary to prepare the Agency for the restructuring and modernisation of agriculture for their implementation, in particular the need to adapt the IT system for handling payment applications. In order to ensure that the necessary adjustments are made, it is necessary to adopt urgently the proposed Print Act No 911. Speaking of specific questions, I'd like to... I tried to answer some of the questions. Mr Aichler is asking about the issue of degressivity. Mr President, degressivity has nothing to do with this law. [[I didn't ask about degressivity.]] Yeah, but there was a question about degressivity. [[Not on my side.]] And I'm sorry, but there is degressivity, and I have it right here. And she's not the subject... [[I was talking about the 150,000.]] You've been paying attention, haven't you? [[Oh, I'm sorry, yeah.]] Please, but I'm surprised because degressivity is not the subject of this bill, first of all. Secondly, we know the problem. That's the problem, like you said, 120 farms. This has been reported to the European Commission, we have the whole procedure worked out. I don't want to talk about it in detail now, but we've already had our solutions as if it were a variant, because that's the situation we've found. As of today, Commissioner Hogan does not agree with the introduction of such solutions, i.e. this degressivity, so that those farms, for which subsidies above 150 000. The euro is limited; these subsidies may have been in the form of labour costs. [[That's it.]] As of today, Commissioner Hogan has not agreed to this, but we do not give up, Mr Hogan, we have more ideas and we are implementing them. How we do this, how it's going to look in detail, all these details I don't want to talk about on such an open forum. Anyway, for today's time, it is not that we will introduce this by law and force the European Commission to do so. There was a time for negotiation, and now there is a time for implementation, and we need to go back to that, opening up such a small area of these negotiations. [[I see.]] We're working on it, and the case isn't closed. That's the first thing. Greening. Of course we're trying here. In general, you'd have to go back to what greening is. It is such an idea that farmers are paid for certain services provided for climate protection and other functions which are related to it, first of all. [[Yes, sir.]] But we know the problem with greening. We're making the Omnibus programme, which is simplifications, to Commissioner Hogan... [[But it doesn't have this function, it doesn't have this function.]] We can discuss here, but I would like to say that Omnibus is such a project in the framework of the revision of the multiannual financial framework, where we are trying, where it is possible to change EU law fairly quickly, to report this. Commissioner Hogan is asking for such comments in the framework of the revision of the multiannual financial framework. We have concrete proposals and we report them. The problem is known, not new. Mr Sachajko, chairman of the agricultural committee, asked here about the issues of degressivity that there is no agreement to degressivity above 75 ha to pay everyone. Once again, the envelope at your disposal was the result of a public consultation with the farmhouse. Mr President, Mr President, this was the result of the public consultation that we have conducted. They weren't just about this case so focused at the time, but we introduced this degressivity here after the public consultation that was the subject of... Anyway, we're gonna have to talk about this in a minute. We can also assume that maybe not directly, but that our amendments proposed in the draft law amending the Payment Act under the direct support system - now I would like to refer to the consultation - are primarily due to the need to adapt the production support instruments in connection with the experience acquired in the first years of the application of the new scheme, actually in the second year, and the need for the Commission to take into account reservations, as has already been said. When new solutions were prepared for direct payments, which were a little earlier before the case came to light, a number of demands were made by agricultural organisations during the application of the existing rules. In addition, the planned changes on 24 May 2016 were presented to 58 social organisations and the opinion was expressed by the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, the national associations of beet growers, because we knew that there would be changes related to the abolition of sugar quotas, the National Audit Union of Agricultural Cooperatives and I still have a number of mentioned organisations. The positions of these organizations have been taken into account in the drafting of the bill, which resulted in the meantime, and we were on the subject. These issues were relevant. Many of them have been included in it. An example is the change in the retention period of sheep - I am replying to your message - whether to maintain payments for small-seeded crops. I remember the discussions, how many reports I had, how many direct meetings I had in this case with farmers, producers. A number of proposed solutions, in particular for payments to protein crops, also take into account the conclusions of discussions with the scientific community in various fora. We have a protein program, right? After all, these discussions also took place. If one application period has ended, we know that we need to discuss what to improve and what to change. These problems have already been identified and consulted by us. In addition, the draft law prepared by the government contains solutions which were necessary in view of the change in EU legal conditions and the reservations raised by the European Commission. The proposed amendments therefore allow for the continuation of production-related support and, on the other hand, introduce solutions that can be taken into account by social and sectoral organisations. It all came together so that we couldn't say that there was no consultation. We have documentation, we have specific requests submitted and what is written here was taken into account, it was consulted before this need arose, because we were preparing various ways to improve what could have been done here, we were looking for these different solutions. Other questions - I'm still looking at them here - which we have, or 20, or up to 30 cows. I understand why we've reduced it. We have sufficient expertise, which - once again I would like to say in this way - confirm the appropriateness and legitimacy of this approach, and our ultimate aim was not to be recovered for a year after implementation, after the end of the direct payment campaign. Resignation of raspberry subsidies - already explained. There were also questions about sugar beet subsidies. I want to say that if I remember correctly, because I have this data compiled quickly, there will be about 500 euros to 1 ha, but I will remind you that there is an envelope with 352 million euros to split. Depending on what this pool is going to be, the area, this envelope of PLN 352 million will be divided by the area that will be taken into account and this will be counted after the campaign. That's one thing. But we estimate that it will be about 500 euros to 1 ha. Among these questions was whether we included deer, dwarfs, and mufflons. No, we can't because of EU law. We are talking about Regulation 1307 which prevents this. And if we change that, if we can change it, but it must be solutions at European Union level and EU regulations... So at this stage, we can't bring it in. As far as sheep are concerned, I've already presented the case. We have taken into account the demands made by the producers, by sheep farmers, and that is what this is about. As far as national protein is concerned, of course this is not the subject of our debate today, but there is a programme to increase the use of national protein. We know there's a memorandum in place. It's a year of protein crops. This is a work to be done and I will say this: the resort has a program and we are implementing this program. I think the details are included in the programs. I would like to call this off and refer to the fact that we understand and act on this matter. Among other things, legumes subsidies are intended to increase the production of feed, to obtain more protein. As far as contract agreements are concerned, as we know, this bill is being prepared, it's being processed at the Ministry. I think that in our legislation it is one of such important issues and by the end of the year, this work will be closed at the beginning of next year. There are quite a lot of these works and this is also very important, and the topic is known and as far as possible at this stage, taken into consideration by us in our departmental work. As far as the cost-effectiveness of production is concerned, without subsidies and with them, I have a whole table in front of me. As far as the profitability of production of protein crops is concerned, it depends on the type, whether it's a bob, the type, the species, whether it's soy, whether it's with or without subsidies. Similarly, as far as raspberries are concerned, we also have detailed expertise that is available. We have this information, how it looks without surcharges and with surcharges. We are not based on default information, we are based on proven, substantively justified information. This is the basis for our action. Thank you so much for being able to answer. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u429	Thank you, Minister. In the mode of correcting Mr Ajchler. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u430	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you said that payments could not stimulate production, and therefore, in short, subsidies - and in terms of whether you confirm this - are public funds to compensate for production costs at the discretion of the Member State concerned. This is the definition of these public funds. Of course I would like to say, Minister, that in the justification for this mention, when it comes to stimulation, you write, for example. in the case of raspberries and strawberries, it is clearly stated that there has been a clear improvement in profitability in the raspberries sector, and therefore there will be no aid to this sector but the opposite of this situation. Therefore, it follows from the justification that this is not the case [[♪ The bell ♪]] increasing production, stimulating, i.e. maintaining surfaces such as the country or our country wants them to be for balance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u431	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u432	So I see a clear difference - growth and stimulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u433	You're welcome, Minister Richard Zarudzki. [[More? Oh, my gosh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u434	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! What are subsidies? The payments are compensation for farmers for the low prices they have. The aid is intended to guarantee them total income giving them some decency of functioning and, on the other hand, to ensure that prices for agricultural products are also suitable for consumers. It's like a mechanism. [[The definition is.]] Definition. As far as our circumstances are concerned, we now know that farmers are in a difficult situation - we already know why - but also, when it comes to payments, they often do not have liquidity, so this is such elementary basic support. That's one thing. On the other hand, I would also like to say that this support has here as if... let's imagine that it is gone and that there is a market that is free of subsidies. In what situation would farmers be in, and in what situation would producers be in, but also consumers in terms of products and prices for agricultural products? And that's basic as if it's a target. [[That's where we agree.]] However, there is no reason to believe that this is for production and stimulating production. It really isn't good thinking about payments and defining these things. This is the first case. Case number two. If we say, for example. Raspberry, there's a way to bring it back. I will say this - if this mechanism works in one way or another, in accordance with the existing law at the moment and with that system that operates, it is possible to restore the aid in subsequent periods after analysis, for a year or two. So this mechanism gives such a right, not unambiguously takes something away.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u435	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 min. 25 hours 22 min 33]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act (prints Nos 849 and 902). I ask Mrs Iwona Michalek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u436	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the finance committee, I have the honour to present a government draft law amending the excise tax law - a project aimed at implementing the law of the European Union. The draft concerns the introduction of a solution adapting the excise tax law to the EU requirements concerning excise exemption for coal products. This change is closely linked to the European Commission's condition for Poland's wider application of exemption from excise duty on coal products. After the amendment, energy-intensive plants using coal products for fuel purposes, if they still want to benefit from excise duty relief, will have to have systems related to environmental protection or increasing energy efficiency. At its 27th meeting on 4 October 2016, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 5 October 2016, requests the adoption of the above draft law. There were no problems, the committee had no problem with this and asked the High Sejm to pass the above law, once again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u437	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marcin has the floor... [[A dumpster.]] ... Leopard, I'm sorry, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the excise duty law. The aim of this project is to implement European Union law, as the European Commission has questioned the scope of excise duty exemptions for coal products used by energy-intensive undertakings and by economic operators in which a system has been put into effect to achieve environmental objectives or to increase energy efficiency. The provisions in this respect were introduced by the Law of 16 September 2011 on the reduction of certain obligations of citizens and entrepreneurs. In the view of the European Commission, the exemption from the tax on coal products in these cases is wider than that provided for in the relevant Directive and it is therefore necessary to amend it. No amendments were made to the draft law in the Committee on Public Finances. The Legislative Office has been authorised to make a punctuation correction. It is worth noting that the entry into force of the new rules should contribute to the improvement of the environment, as the new regulations will motivate energy-intensive operators to take action to reduce the negative impact of their activities on the environment. This aspect is also part of the intensive activities undertaken by the Ministry of the Environment. In view of the above, the Law and Justice Club will support the draft law amending the excise duty Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u439	Thank you very much. Monika Wielichowska, on behalf of the Civic Platform, put her position in writing. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the government draft law amending the excise tax law, prints no. 849 and 902. This draft law restores the excise duty exemptions introduced by the Law of 16 September 2011 on the reduction of certain obligations of citizens and businesses. Exemption from excise duty was introduced for activities subject to taxation which are subject to coal products intended for heating purposes. This exemption has been defined to a wider extent than is apparent from the Article. 17 Council Directive 2003/96/EC of 27 October 2003 restructuring the Community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity, thus calling into question this exemption by the European Union. This proposal will therefore be amended by Article. 31a Act on excise duty. This amendment will exempt energy-intensive undertakings which have a system in place to achieve environmental objectives or to increase energy efficiency from excise duty exemption. On the other hand, operators who are energy-intensive but do not have a system in place to achieve environmental objectives or to increase energy efficiency will have to introduce a system to benefit from excise duty relief, to achieve environmental objectives or to increase energy efficiency. In view of the need to adapt national tax law on indirect tax, namely excise duty, to Community law, the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u441	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, on behalf of the Polish People's Party, made her position in writing. Please take the floor of Mr Ireneus profit, free and solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Excise Tax Act, prints No. 849 and 902. The draft law aims to complement the implementation of Council Directive 2003/96/EC of 27 October 2003 restructuring the Community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity. The provisions of this Directive were introduced into the Polish system of law by the Law of 16 September 2011 on the reduction of certain obligations of citizens and entrepreneurs, but the European Commission questioned the scope of exemptions from excise duty on coal products used by energy-intensive plants and by economic operators in which a system was put in place to achieve environmental objectives or to improve energy efficiency. In the European Commission's view, the tax exemptions introduced in these cases are more extensive than those provided for in the individual directive. In view of the European Commission's position as legitimate, the amendments referred to in the draft law should be made. However, it is worth noting that the proposed changes will affect economic operators who are not energy-intensive entities and energy-intensive entities not complying with the requirements of the Directive. The amendment of the Act will allow the continued use of exemptions for energy-intensive undertakings following the introduction of organisational systems enabling them to achieve environmental objectives or to increase energy efficiency. According to this idea, redundancies also operate in other countries of the European Union. The entry into force of the bill submitted will contribute to the improvement of the environment. The regulation will motivate its addressees to take action to reduce their negative impact on the environment. The date of entry into force of the amendment of the Act is scheduled for 1 July 2017, but this deadline may not be sufficient for energy-intensive operators to implement arrangements authorising the use of excise duty exemptions due to the scope and effects of the regulation. This should prompt the High House to consider extending this deadline. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports initiatives aimed at harmonising European law, all the more so with the objective of protecting the environment. At the same time, I would like to express my expectation that the Government of the Republic of Poland will not leave those who lose the right to exemption from excise duty to themselves during the adjustment period, as the addition to the implementation of the provisions of this Directive may be made at the expense of the final recipients of the products of those entities. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u443	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the government's draft law amending the excise duty law. The aim of the project is to implement European Union law in accordance with Article. 17 Directive 2003/96/EC, the purpose of Poland is to exempt coal products from excise duty. This applies to energy-intensive plants using coal products for heating purposes. If they want to continue to benefit from excise duty relief, they will have to have environmental systems. This is a very important issue because of the care of the environment. The use of coal energy should be correlated with respect for the environment and increasing energy efficiency. Of course, the project itself adapts Polish legislation to the requirements of the European Union. The Kukiz Club15 supports this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u445	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We will discuss the amendment of the excise duty law. Here the government should first of all take care of Polish interests. I understand and support the exemption from the tax of energy products and electricity used by energy-intensive companies, which are more favourable to the environment or improve the energy efficiency balance mentioned earlier, but I have this question: Why is it not exempt only from the tax of coal products of Polish origin? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u447	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a quick question. Here in the description of the financial consequences that this law will bring, you state that data on these effects have been obtained from six customs chambers in 15 functioning customs chambers. What is the cause of this? Are these establishments located only in the area of operation of these six customs offices? Is there any organisational disadvantage that results from the fact that not from across the country, not from all customs chambers, this information concerning the financial statement of this law has been received? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u449	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Jasiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for supporting the government's draft amendment to the excise duty law. I answer both questions. As regards the first issue, the Act does not provide for a distinction between materials, I apologise, coal products for domestic and foreign fuel purposes, and the question is therefore not likely to concern this amendment. In answer to the Member's question on the calculation of the effects of this law: we took this calculation - as you rightly pointed out, you analyzed the OSR to the bill - data from six customs chambers. The budgetary impact of this amendment was estimated on the basis of data from six customs offices. Currently, 300 entities are entitled to this exemption. This is not such a situation as the Member assumes that only on... [[Then why not 15?]] The sample is representative. For us the number of energy-intensive plants was more important and enough of these energy-intensive plants were included in the study. We therefore believe that this respect is sufficiently precise and relevant. I would like to raise this issue at all about the impact on the actors here, because during the discussion, also in the Parliamentary Committee, this thing was strongly highlighted, the point is that it is a very big impact, also affecting consumers. I'd like to deny it. The purchase costs of coal are estimated at 1 the value of marketed production, assuming at the same time that the excise duty is 5 prices of coal products. We are dealing with beams as regards the value of excise duty in relation to the value of marketed production. So it's really not as big a financial problem as we assume. In this context, too, our estimates should be taken on the basis of data from 6 customs chambers as reliable. I assure you of their integrity. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u451	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u452	On behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the excise duty Act, print Nos 849 and 902. This draft law eliminates the European Commission's reservations under Directive 2003/96/EC concerning the exemption from excise duty of coal products intended for fuel purposes. The Committee on Public Finance has made minor changes of an editorial nature and has accepted a project introducing exemption from excise duty for coal products intended for fuel use in energy-intensive plants, in which a system to achieve environmental objectives or to increase energy efficiency is implemented at the same time. The PSL Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u453	The Government's draft law amending the excise duty law is a project aimed at implementing European Union law. It concerns the introduction of a solution that adapts the excise duty law to EU requirements. It concerns exemption from excise duty on coal products. The amendment is closely linked to the subject matter of the European Commission on a broader than that provided for in Article. 17 Directive 2003/96/EC of Poland applying exemption from excise duty on coal products. After the amendment, energy-intensive plants which use coal products for fuel purposes, if they wish to continue to benefit from excise duty exemption, will have to have systems related to the protection of the environment or to increasing energy efficiency. The Committee on Public Finances discussed this draft at its meeting on 5 October 2016 and requested the adoption by the Sejm of a draft law. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of the adoption of the excise duty law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u454	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930, adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014 (prints Nos 848 and 896). I ask Mr Józef Leśniak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Commissions of Justice and Human Rights and Foreign Affairs carried out on 5 October 2016 the first reading and examination of the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930, adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014. According to the latest estimates of the International Labour Organisation, not less than about 21 million people in the world are victims of forced labour. This protocol, which was adopted at the 103rd session of the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva, is a document supplementing Convention No 29, which is a so-called Convention 29. fundamental conventions of particular importance, all of which are already ratified by Poland. Despite the wide scope of Convention 29 and the action taken by the Member States of the International Labour Organisation, it was considered necessary to adopt measures to fill gaps in the application of the Convention. This aims to promote human rights and decent work for all and to eliminate trafficking in human beings and various forms of forced labour. Of the Member States of the European Union, Protocol 29 has so far ratified the Czech Republic, France and the United Kingdom. Total number of countries that have ratified to date - 8. Other countries are in the process of ratification. If the High Sejm agrees and you ratify this law, the protocol will enter into force 12 months after the date of registration of its ratification by the Director-General of the International Labour Office for Poland. For the purposes of both committees, the Sejm Analysis Bureau has prepared an opinion in which it welcomes the draft law and the procedures chosen by the government for ratification of the protocol. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Commissions: Justice and Human Rights and Foreign Affairs, after first reading and after considering the bill, unanimously adopted a report in which they requested the adoption by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of a draft law from print no. 848 without amendments. I'm asking you to accept it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u456	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u457	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Convention No 29 on Forced and Compulsory Labour is one of the 8 basic conventions, as has already been said, of the International Labour Organisation and is considered to be an instrument for the protection of fundamental human rights. Although more than 85 years have passed since the Convention was adopted and the ratification of the Convention is almost universal, the International Labour Organisation points out that some 21 million people worldwide are currently victims of forced labour. It is scandalous that this practice still exists despite the wide scope of this convention and the measures taken by the Member States. That is why the International Labour Organisation considered it necessary to adopt complementary measures concerning shortcomings in the application of this Convention. The purpose of the protocol is to develop measures to prevent forced labour and to protect and support victims. The International Labour Organisation, when adopting the Protocol, has set itself the objective of resolutely strengthening the efforts of its members to eliminate modern forms of slavery. As stated by the International Labour Organisation, the new instrument adapts the Convention to contemporary challenges, mainly addressing trafficking in human beings. The attached recommendations provide technical guidance on the implementation process of the new regulations. The Protocol to Convention No 29 promotes and implements fundamental human rights, decent work for all and eliminates trafficking in human beings and effectively eliminates all forms of forced labour. This Protocol is addressed in the Council Decisions adopted on 10 November 2015, which empower the Member States of the European Union to ratify, in the interest of the Union, the Protocol in question as regards matters relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and social policy respectively. This makes it possible to take direct action in this regard by adopting complementary measures on gaps in the application of Convention 29. As the draft law will not lead to the need to bring national law into line with the provisions, to increase expenditure or to reduce the revenues of public finance entities in relation to the size resulting from the existing legislation, it does not extend or restrict the rights and freedoms contained in the Constitution, and in the course of the work of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs no comments have been made, as Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice introduced we judge positively and raise no objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u458	Thank you very much. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing the Protocol to Convention 29, which was adopted on 11 June by the General Conference of the International Labour Conference. It would seem that this convention, and in particular this protocol, Poland may not apply. We all know that it is estimated that more than 21 million people in the world are victims of forced labour. We are also dealing with a wide range of Convention 29 and with measures taken by individual Member States where it is considered necessary to adopt complementary measures. I would first of all like to focus on some of the most important issues in this speech. Firstly, the definition of forced labour, which is contained in International Labour Organisation Convention No 29. This definition of forced labour says that it is all the work or services required of a person under the threat of any penalty and to which the person concerned has not volunteered. It is also very often the case that forced labour is a result of trafficking in human beings, and trafficking in human beings involves transporting people, usually across borders, to use them. Nevertheless, a key element of this crime is the exercise of control over a person, which allows him to be used, even with the consent of the victim. I would like to point out that this acquisition of control over an employee results in a violation of human rights, and this is the factor that characterizes forced labour and makes it possible to distinguish between this phenomenon and the violation of labour rights. Ladies and gentlemen, now research. We have very interesting research, which was carried out in 2010 by the Centre for Human Trade Research at the University of Warsaw. The phenomenon of forced labour is not foreign to Poland, nor is it foreign to Polish citizens. Among the victims of forced labour in Poland according to these studies are dominated by foreigners from Eastern European countries, mainly Ukraine. More and more people are also identified as victims of forced labour in the Far East countries, especially North Korea, China, Bangladesh, Taiwan, the Philippines, Azerbaijan and Vietnam. The vast majority of victims do not speak Polish. Sadly, Poles are also victims of forced labour. They were mostly used on plantations in Italy and Spain. We therefore believe that it is necessary to adopt this protocol. Civic Platform Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] He'll be in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u460	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The issue of forced labour was one of the issues raised during the 103rd session of the International Labour Conference held in Geneva from 28 May to 12 June 2014. Participants decided that members should take additional measures to prevent forced labour. It has been decided to adopt a binding Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced and Compulsory Labour together with recommendations for the implementation of the Protocol. Following discussions and amendments on 11 June 2014, the minutes were adopted by government delegates, workers and employers by 237 votes to 27 abstentions and 8 against. By adopting the protocol, the aim was to resolutely strengthen the efforts of members to eliminate modern forms of slavery. The new mechanisms adapt Convention 29 on Forced and Compulsory Labour of 1930 to the modern world and mainly concern trafficking in human beings. The attached recommendations provide technical guidance on the implementation process of the new regulations. States are required to ensure effective measures against forced labour and protection and access to support for people exploited. In addition, each country must develop, in consultation with employers' and workers' organisations, national policies and action plans to combat forced and compulsory labour. The regulations planned in the process are modelled on similar regulations on trafficking in human beings. As we read in the explanatory memorandum of Convention No 29, the States are not committed to criminalising the conduct of forced labour and compulsory labour. The Convention only introduces the obligation of its members to abolish forced or compulsory labour, and this effect cannot always and must be implemented by criminal measures. Polish law of this kind provides for such measures. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u462	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930, adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014, prints No 848 and 896. The Protocol to Convention No 29 was adopted at the 103rd session of the General Conference of the International Labour Conference on 11 June 2014. Under the ratification protocol, the State undertakes to take effective measures to prevent and eliminate the use of forced labour, to provide victims with protection and access to appropriate and effective corrective measures, such as compensation, and to punish the perpetrators of forced or compulsory labour. In addition, the ratifying country receiving the Protocol will develop national policies and action plans in consultation with employers' and workers' organisations for the effective and sustainable eradication of forced or compulsory labour. The ratification of the Protocol does not require or require national law to be brought into line with its provisions. Nor will it increase or reduce the revenues of public finance operators in relation to the size of existing legislation. Furthermore, the Protocol does not extend or restrict the rights and freedoms of the Constitution but merely confirms them. For these reasons, the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the ratification of this protocol. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u464	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club our position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930, adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014. The problem of forced labour was one of the most important issues raised during the 103rd session of the International Labour Conference held in Geneva from 28 May to 12 June 2014. Delegates have decided that the most appropriate instrument for stepping up ILO members' efforts to prevent forced labour will be the legally binding Protocol to Convention 29 on Forced and Compulsory Labour, together with recommendations for the implementation of the Protocol. Following discussion and amendment, the minutes were adopted on 11 June 2014 by delegates from governments, employers and workers. The purpose of the protocol is to develop measures to prevent forced labour and protect and support victims. In adopting the protocol, the ILO has set itself the objective of decisively strengthening the efforts of its members to eliminate modern forms of slavery. Countries have been required to ensure effective measures against forced labour and to ensure protection and access to support for exploiters, including the possibility of receiving compensation, and to introduce appropriate sanctions for perpetrators. In addition, each country must develop, in consultation with employers' and workers' organisations, a national policy and action plan to combat forced and compulsory labour. The regulations proposed in the protocol adopted and the recommendations supporting it, in particular as regards the rights of victims and their protection and support, are modelled on similar rules on trafficking in human beings. The signatory countries also committed themselves to educational and information activities among workers and employers, to ensuring that regulations on prevention of forced labour cover all areas of the economy and to protect immigrants as particularly vulnerable to slave labour, and to adopt measures to identify, protect and support victims and to ensure that they are able to recover and rehabilitate. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Club Parliamentary [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish People's Party shares the opinion expressed in the committee's report and supports the ratification by the Republic of Poland of the Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u466	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The ratification of the 2014 Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930 does not require or require national law to be brought into line with its provisions. It will implement the decision of the Council of the European Union of 10 November 2015. This is due to the fact that the Protocol is a complementary document to this Convention, which is part of the so-called Convention. fundamental conventions, which have all been ratified by Poland. The Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930 implements fundamental human rights to work in decent conditions and eliminates all forms of trafficking in human beings and forced labour. According to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the proposed regulation is in line with European Union law, and ratification of the Protocol will not result in an increase in expenditure or a reduction in the revenue of public finance sector entities in relation to the volume resulting from existing legislation. The Free and Solidarni Circle is in favour of the presented project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u468	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u469	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In connection with the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930, adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014, I would like to ask and at the same time ask for data, if we have such information, how many people in Poland have been victims of these unfair practices in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u470	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u471	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister whether this ratification, which was undertaken in Geneva on 11 June 2014, is another international document, which we as Poland sign a few years after ratification. Is this another late project? Do we as a country stick to deadlines, or are we at the end of the tail all over the world again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u472	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all clubs for supporting the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the 2014 Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour. Answering the question right away - we are the leaders when it comes to ratifying this protocol. Among the countries of the European Union, it has been ratified by the Czech Republic, France and the United Kingdom, which means we will be at the forefront of these countries. As regards the other countries of the world that have ratified the Convention earlier, the Protocol has ratified eight countries. So we're the leaders. As regards the question of forced labour in the field of trafficking in human beings concerning our country, in 2015 according to the General Prosecutor's Office, 115 persons were granted the status of victim of trafficking in human beings in Poland, 41 of whom were foreigners: Ukrainian citizens - 18 persons, Vietnam - 14 persons, Sri Lanka - 4 persons, Bulgaria - 3 persons. At the same time, the National Intervention and Consultation Centre for Victims of Human Trade supported 229 people, including 26 foreigners, in 2015. This year's precise data is not yet available, but the scale of this phenomenon is not increasing - from these data that we received, it appears that 27 people have the status of victims of trade, 40 people have been supported. Once again, thank you to all the clubs for supporting the protocol. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u474	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Józef Leśniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u475	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to express my deep satisfaction at the way in which we have worked in the Joint Commissions: Justice and Human Rights and Foreign Affairs. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the work on the drafting of this bill, as well as the substantive and fruitful debate in this Chamber. Thank you very much again and I ask for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u476	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on governmental drafts of laws amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws (Prints Nos 626, 785 and 927). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u477	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on government draft laws amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws contained in prints Nos 626 and 785. The draft concerns the alignment of national rules on payment transactions using payment cards with the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. The Public Finance Commission has addressed the draft laws to the subcommittee. The subcommittee met four times yesterday and presented its opinion and draft report. Over 60 amendments were tabled during the work, all of which were considered. After yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Public Finance requests the adoption of the attached bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u478	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Jan Szewczak, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u479	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! It's a pretty barbaric time, so we're not gonna be special intellectual scouts here pretending. Unfortunately, it is quite simple because, although the work was complicated, there were very comprehensive, in-depth discussions in the committee, too, we simply need to implement this. I have my own private opinion quite skeptical about whether the Euro-Bureaucrats, so to speak, thanks to the greater availability of these payment accounts, will make these grandmothers and grandparents who do not have bank accounts... or will necessarily bank them. But that is our duty, we must take these measures, and it seems that these works - in a quite sensible manner carried out, although with rather turbulent discussions at times - will have a positive effect. Let's hope my skeptical opinion doesn't work out. I highly recommend to the High House that further action be taken with regard to this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u480	Thank you very much. You have a voice, Mrs... No, Mrs Izabela Leszczyn from the Civic Platform has given her position in writing. Mr Blażej Parda, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The laws on amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws with draft implementing acts contain some interesting and in our assessment of positive solutions for Poles. Firstly, a website will have to be created comparing the offers of payment service providers operating payment accounts, i.e. a comparison of the fees charged for the bank account. In our view, customers should know exactly how much the services cost in individual payment institutions. This must be a party unrelated to banks and payment institutions. Today, there are similar tools on the market, but what if these creations are often paid by stakeholders, so that the costs of their services are presented in pink colors, some are silenced and some are highlighted and shown as the most important. The comparison supervised by the Financial Supervision Commission will be more reliable and more reliable for customers. I think it's a step in the right direction. We know that often banks and financial institutions are masters in hiding fees in ancillary services - services that often we, customers, do not need, and sometimes we do not know that we pay for them. Only after you look into the account history, it turns out that the free account was not free. It would be ideal if we knew the total cost of handling a bank account in the first 3 years, because we know that some of the charges are activated only after a certain period of time, so-called. It's a free period, but it's a song of the future. As Kukiz,15 we always call for more transparency and less bureaucracy, so we welcome the requirement to provide the customer before signing a short, precise document containing charges, written in a normal font, so that we can all the costs and so-called costs. Read stars without using a magnifier or microscope. In addition, this document will be standardised, which will facilitate comparison of offers to non-Internet customers. Another element of the bill is the basic payment account, i.e. the so-called. free account with the possibility to make several free transfers. According to the Act, it is intended to encourage those who do not have a bank account, i.e. older people, to move away from money for electronic money. I fear that this objective will not be achieved, and this involves habits and lack of trust in payment institutions, mainly banks. Trust You have to earn money, and so far, it's a lot of things. We remember, for example, the loud lately abuse of franc credit agreements. The beneficiaries of the free bill can rather be young people, at the age of 18 and 25, for whom it will be the first account. Often young people are easily alienated from banks as a result of many additional, as it turns out later, charges added to the so-called. A free bill. And as we know, at this age there is no need for unnecessary services, which are often pushed a little bit by force when establishing a bank account. After a few months it turns out that the bill, which was to be free, costs a lot. That is why there is a need for a free bank account, it will benefit not only young people entering the labour market, but also banks who, by playing more open and transparent cards, will restore public confidence in such an important institution. An interesting solution is also the so-called. a transfer of a bank account, or rather a replacement of a bank account. Why a substitute? Because a real transfer would be if we could really transfer the bank account number, just as it happens with mobile operators, so that the bank account would follow us. Unfortunately, this is not exactly the case here, but it is a substitute, which is why we are also positive about these changes. Maybe in the future it would be worth considering some single standard, so that the bill number is based on our PESELs or maybe NIPs and is permanently assigned to a person, to a man, to a company, to an institution, of course with variations, so that we can have some of these bills. Then it wouldn't be a problem to move, because the bill would belong to us, and the bank would just serve that bill. That is why, being aware of all these positive aspects, I think, we will support this project because of this good direction for citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u482	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u483	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present the club's position on government draft laws amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws, prints Nos 626, 785 and 927. These projects concern the alignment of national regulations with European Union law on payment transactions using payment cards. The projects introduce new supervisory procedures for electronic payments, the division of supervisory powers over payment instruments between the Financial Supervision Commission and the President of the National Bank of Poland and in their second part so-called. a general payment account intended to improve the participation of adult Poles and Poles in the payment accounts sector. Today's so-called level. Bankruptcy of the Polish society is about 80% and is one of the lowest in Europe. According to the project, any citizen who has not yet had a payment account in any bank or cooperative credit and savings bank will be free of charge to set up such an account and gain access to basic transactions such as deposits and withdrawals, transfer orders or payment orders. Within a month, 15 such free transactions will be possible. Once this number is exceeded, the service provider will, of course, be able to charge a fee, but no higher than most often used in personal accounts. In addition, bank service providers will be required to provide transparent information on fees related to their services, thereby increasing the choice of payment services available to consumers and improving the quality and transparency of services provided by payment service providers, as well as increasing consumer mobility and facilitating comparison of fees and payment account services. At its Tuesday meeting, the Committee on Public Finance accepted the projects together with the amendments. The Modern Posel Club, like the committee, recommends and appreciates this project positively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u484	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor. Excuse me, Madame, you have delivered your position in writing. In that case, Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Circle of the Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position towards government draft laws amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws, print Nos 626 and 785, and the reports of the Public Finance Commission, print No 927. On the one hand, these projects aim to align national regulations with European Union legal standards on payment services and on the other hand to create a new framework for advanced financial services which can significantly affect the way in which Polish society makes non-cash payments. The proposed solutions address the need to increase the competitiveness of payment services available to consumers and to improve the quality and transparency of services provided by payment service providers. The requirement to increase consumer mobility makes it necessary to facilitate the availability of payment services and to compare their costs. The implementation of the provisions of Regulation 2015/751 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on interchange fees for payment transactions carried out on the basis of the MFI card, i.e. multilateral interchange fees, aims to ensure that the provisions of the Regulation are enforced by operators of payment schemes subject to its regime by the appointment as supervisory authority of the President of the National Bank of Poland. In turn, the competent supervisory authority for the activities of payment service providers, i.e. the publishers of payment instruments and clearing agents, will be the Financial Supervision Commission, in accordance with the draft law. The consequence is the division of supervisory functions in order to ensure the enforcement of the provisions of the MFI Regulation between the President of the NBP and the Financial Supervision Commission in such a way that the President of the NBP will exercise systemic supervision over the financial market infrastructure creating the payment system and the KNF will be the prudential supervisor of payment service providers, i.e. over clearing agents and issuers of payment instruments. The imposition on the NBP President of system surveillance duties is a consequence of the dynamic situation in the payment services market related to technological progress, in particular the development of mobile applications. Therefore, it is necessary to increase the market regulators' participation in the creation of safe and efficient schemes in which payment instruments operate. The central bank's involvement in the supervision of this payment system will build public confidence in the national currency and develop efficient payment systems for industry 4.0. Further regulations setting cybersecurity standards must follow these solutions. Digital technologies are the driving force and core of the fourth industrial revolution, in which, alongside the in-depth automation of industrial processes and global data processing, there is a far-reaching reconstruction of the functioning of modern societies. Cybersecurity is a necessary condition for reindustrialisation of the country within the framework of the Responsible Development Strategy. Creating safeguards for IT industrial and institutional applications can potentially become a Polish national specialisation due to the great intellectual potential of Polish engineering staff in this area. The Free and Solidarni Circle appreciates the government's legislative initiative and the substantive contribution of the committee's work to proceding draft laws on amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws, and thus supports the proposed regulations, indicating the need to prepare comprehensive legal solutions in the area of cybersecurity. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u486	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz Members Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the proposed solutions, or rather consistency with settlement or settlement systems practiced by international companies that allow online payments and money transfers over the Internet. Is there room for such institutions in the NBP's payment system? Are customers of payment service providers for websites safe? Whether they pay tax on their activities in Poland, among others. a bank tax on the value of assets? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u488	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushcz, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a short question: How much will these proposals increase the costs of the Financial Supervision Authority? Will this not involve an increase in employment at that office? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u490	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the second Member's question, we do not believe that this will generate an increase in UKNF jobs for this purpose, because there is no generation there, so to speak, of such risks. With regard to the first Member's question, these companies operate on the basis of a uniform passport operating in the European Union, while the Financial Supervision Authority has the right, in spite of all, to regulate this. If it turns out that there is a company that does not meet certain requirements or raises some kind of doubt, risks in terms of customer safety, it has the right to say, ask whether to ask, adjust, supervise this entity, or in drastic situations refuse to agree to the activities of this entity. As far as the security of this type of payment is concerned, there are no risks to our knowledge. I mean, here was the cybersecurity mentioned by one of your fellow Members. We are aware that at the present time this is a key issue for the whole fintech sector and such payments, that is the basis, companies have to protect themselves, that is to say to them either to be or not to be on the financial market. With regard to regulatory and supervisory security under UKNF or the Minister of Finance, there is no concern here. On the other hand, when it comes to banking tax, it concerns assets. Institutions whose assets, so to speak... The first 4 billion assets are released. As far as I'm concerned, these companies don't have that kind of assets. Most cooperative banks, all cooperative banks they are also exempt because they do not have such assets. It's just a bank tax, which I understand... As far as asset tax is concerned, he's only starting at 4 billion. The first four billion are fired, so these companies... The individual entity does not have such assets, so this does not apply at all. Well, thank you very much, then.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u492	Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Jerzy Małecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u493	Mr. Marshal! Minister! There's only one thing I wanted to correct. It was said by a modern Member that there are 15 transactions free of charge. I wanted to correct that there are only five free transactions, each one will already be paid. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u494	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u495	Declaration on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the draft law amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present a position on the draft law adapting national rules on payment transactions using payment cards to the provisions of Regulation 2015/751 of the European Parliament and of the Council on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions called the MFI Regulation. We welcome the fact that started work on adapting the Polish legal order to the resolution of this regulation, initiated by the previous government of PO-PSL found their finale in the Sejm and that Poles will have free access to the basic payment account. It is a pro-consumer solution, in addition contributing to the growth of the so-called. banking in Poland, which promotes transparency of financial flows and serves both economic turnover and the budget well. The proposed law introduces rules that provide consumers with access to a basic payment account and basic payment services linked to that account. Since many consumers believe that the payment account is only an unnecessary expense, often combined with complex payment services for which additional charges have to be paid, it is appropriate for Poland to use the national option in which the basic account access service - within certain limits of the transaction - is free of charge. This service will be provided to consumers who do not have another payment account. The consumer will only be able to execute basic payment transactions, such as deposits and withdrawals, transfer orders or direct debits. The services associated with such an account will be basic in nature and will be intended for those who do not use the bank account (the SKOK account), with the proposal to introduce a monthly limit on free transactions carried out by means of a transfer order, including fixed orders. Above this limit, the payment service provider will be able to charge the consumer a fee for the execution of subsequent credit transfer transactions, including fixed orders. However, this fee may not be higher than the most frequently charged fee for the same service linked to any other payment account maintained by the supplier. The limit for free credit transfer transactions has been set in such a way that home financial management can be managed e.g. as regards the regulation of basic obligations relating to the operation of the household (activities, electricity or telecommunications services). A consumer holding a basic account will be able to trade payment cards with the exception of credit card transactions, since no credit products will be linked to the basic account, which is the result of the decision not to use the national option - Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 Directives. In addition, it is proposed to allow providers to charge a fee for issuing a payment card, no higher than the usual fee charged by the supplier for issuing an equivalent payment card.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on government drafts of laws amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws (prints Nos 626, 785 and 927). On 18 October 2016, the Public Finance Commission adopted a draft law amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws (Print No 927) submitted by the Permanent Sub-Committee on Financial Institutions. Draft Print Act No. 927 contains structured records of government prints No. 626 and 785. The draft submitted today is the implementation of Union law contained in Directives 2015/751/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions and 2014/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of payment accounts charges, transfer of payment accounts and access to the basic payment account. In general, the proposal harmonises the rules on payment services in EU countries. It regulates in detail the provisions relating to the operation of basic accounts, fees and control over the payment services provided. The Committee on Public Finance has adopted several amendments to clarify non-cash transactions and payment cards. The project also introduces changes to many laws, including: about NBP, Bank law, about BGK, about freedom of business, about trading in financial instruments, about financial market supervision, about SKOKs, about Bank Guarantee Fund and others. The project will contribute to increased non-cash turnover and the harmonisation of EU law. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of draft laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u497	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 min. 36 hours 23 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws (prints No. 840 and 918). I would like to ask Mr Arthur to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u498	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present to the High House the report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill in question, print No 840, entered the Sejm on 13 September 2016 and aims at adapting national rail transport laws to the amendment of European Union law introduced by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the establishment of a single European railway area and its implementing rules. The aim of this document was to revise and harmonise the three directives of the first railway package in order to simplify, clarify and improve the legal framework for the European rail sector, thereby increasing competition, improving market surveillance and facilitating investment in the rail sector. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! The bill submitted introduces a number of amendments concerning, among others, the: definition of railway infrastructure, the issue of the provision of railway infrastructure, the concept of service facilities, the way of supervision and appointment of the President of the Railway Transport Office, plans for financing rail transport. In view of the complexity and importance of the project, it was decided to set up an emergency subcommittee at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on 4 October 2016. During the work in the subcommittee, a number of amendments were tabled, which were accepted by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. The whole of the project, together with the amendments and the three annexes, was adopted by the subcommittee with no votes against. On 18 October 2016, the subcommittee report was unanimously adopted by the Infrastructure Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u499	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Aleksander Anczynski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present a position regarding a government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. We are implementing the EU directive resulting from the revision of the first railway package. The draft law is a consequence of the adopted directive. This project should have been adopted by June 2015. It was not accepted, which could have resulted in costs. This draft fulfils all the obligations under the Directive. The Law and Justice Club adheres to the novel of the Act under print No. 840. The members of the club will vote in favour of the proposed act, along with the clarification amendments which I am submitting on behalf of the club to Mr Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u501	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u502	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws contained in Seym Printing No. 840. Mr President and my previous speaker presented perfectly the unification of the various provisions, the notification of our rules to the European Union. However, I would like to focus on the transitional period, which was the result of the fourth package, namely on Tuesday the Committee on Transport and Tourism just approved it and in the political part the first transitional periods given concerned the opening of the rail market, because that is what this is all about, the opening and management of railway infrastructure. We are just 2 years old here, which means that from the moment of publication and entry into force - according to the records from January 2019 at the latest, so if we implement earlier, then earlier - we will be able to turn off the LHS PKP. Second period, so-called: technical, transitional, concerns the application of the new regime, in particular the procurement of public transport services. The possibility of direct procurement will therefore expire in 2024, but exceptions will continue to apply. Contracts concluded directly in 2024 will not be available for more than 10 years, which means that contracts will no longer be awarded directly in 2035. Thus, full liberalisation of the passenger transport market will be accepted in 2035. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club fully supports this government project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u503	Thank you. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u504	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. As we have pointed out many times, today we have one of the largest EU funds in history, which will be earmarked for rail transport in the 2014-2020 budgetary perspective, so our rail rules must be amended, our rail law must correspond with the legislation of other European countries. Market opening, liberalisation of rail transport standards according to the relevant directives of the European Parliament and of the Council align our rail market with the Single European Railway Area. Therefore, the legal process of the Rail Transport Act amended the definition of the components of railway infrastructure, the fees charged for the use of railway infrastructure, the competence of regulatory authorities, the processes for the separation and provision of service facilities, as well as the rules for the operation of railway stations. The deadline for transposition of European legislation expired on 16 June 2015. The European Commission has suspended proceedings on this matter. The present law will enable us to fulfil our European commitments and adapt rail to the created single European railway area. As the Kukiz Posel Club15, we also pointed to a systematic decrease in the number of railway accidents both in Poland and throughout Europe. This is the first fruit of the start of coordination of the railway sector in Europe. Safety on Polish tracks and railway stations is a priority on which a strong accent was placed. This direction is always worth supporting. This law meets these criteria. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u505	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Continuing my clubmate's statement, I would particularly like to draw attention to the work of the subcommittee. On 5 October this year, two extraordinary subcommittee meetings took place to consider the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act. The Gremium discussed a number of issues such as: adapting Polish legislation to European Union regulations; changing the financing of rail transport; creating the possibility to implement multiannual plans for the maintenance of railway infrastructure; describing expenditure, costs, revenues, etc. - the means to maintain it; how the amount of fees to be charged by the operator to users for access to it is to be regulated; the transfer of supervision of the President of the Railway Transport Office from the Ministry of Ministry directly to the President of the Council of Ministers. And here are particularly important issues, questions: What's next with railway and service facilities? Expansion and maintenance of the railway network - public spending on what? Until 18 October this year. The Sejm was to develop satisfactory solutions to the acceptance by the Polish Parliament. There is pressure on time to implement European legislation. The next amendment will be extensive. It is worth pointing out, however, that the powers of the administrator have been clarified, inter alia. It's up to him to agree whether the railway depot with dangerous goods will enter the tunnel. We need a transport code, a comprehensive set of transport regulations. The safety and liquidity of transport services provided by managers, operators and carriers are essential. As a Kukiz club15, as Members of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, we support further work in Parliament on amending the Rail Transport Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u507	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u508	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws included in print No 840, following the presentation of the report of the committee in print No 918. Ladies and gentlemen! This law is a government submission. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the purpose of the proposed amendment is to align national regulatory standards for rail transport with the revision of European Union law introduced by Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the creation of a single European railway area and a number of implementing rules based on it. In addition, the Act complements the amendments implementing Directive 2008/57/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 June 2008 on the interoperability of the rail system in the Community and introduces amendments to the Law on rail transport of a sequencing and clarifying nature not to implement Union law. This, as I checked, is the most extensive revision of the Rail Transport Act. This is, of course, the result of the implementation of European law. However, this is not the first amendment. Slowly, the legal system in this area is becoming complicated. Part of the provisions is in the basic law, part is in the amending laws. There are voices from the railway industry that slowly need to start moving towards a new law. Of course, these cleanup targets are important, but I would point out another one. The railway market needs a boost for development. Our rail industry needs a clear state declaration on the direction in which the railroad is going. It needs a deep discussion about the role of railways in modern Poland, but, more importantly, in the perspective of 10, 30 or even 50 years. Such a debate could take place on the occasion of a completely new law, and its results could take the form of concrete proposals, projects, as well as statutory provisions and - and equally important - cause that in the European rail discussion Poland would act as a solution proposer, including those beneficial to our companies related to the railway market, and not usually blocking the European Commission's proposals. This is extremely important, especially since we have a large group of innovative companies, Polish companies, which can conquer the European market, but also the world market. But we also have the prospect of spending over PLN 60 billion on rail, on infrastructure, on means of transport in the coming years. Of course, these measures can be spent, so to speak, without a deeper thought, only the fundamental question that each of us must ask ourselves: Can we, as a country, Poland, afford to throw another 60 billion PLN into the mud? I believe that it is not that Poland, the Polish railroad can be arranged better for this money. All you have to do is discuss it and take solutions for the letter "N." I will explain that this is not about our solutions in terms of solutions that the government is proposing, but about the best solutions, regardless of who they are. High Izbo! Today, however, we are debating a presentation which will have far-reaching consequences for the functioning of the railway market in Poland. The most important changes that will be implemented by the Government by the law concern the position of the President of the Office for Railway Transport, as well as the provision of railway infrastructure, the financing of rail transport and service facilities. The aim of these changes is to create such conditions as to allow a single railway area in the European Union to be created in the future. The provisions of the submission are also intended to facilitate the operation on this market of a wider group of operators, i.e. de facto to liberalize this market. So much for theory. Of course, we firmly believe that the Parliament committee has run out of time for a comprehensive, in-depth, multi-dimensional analysis and, above all, for a deep debate with representatives of the railway industry. We also understand where the government's request for urgent adoption comes from, and of course we do not want to block it. But we have a deep conviction that we need to get back to the discussion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with representatives of the industry. It seems that in many areas this law may not work as intended. If this happens, unfortunately, this will be to the detriment of passengers, entrepreneurs and the entire rail market. As the project partially transposes Community legislation, the Modern Posel Club will support it. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u509	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u510	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed amendment adapts the Polish law to the European rail transport legislation due to the change in the meaning of the basic concepts such as railway infrastructure, railway line or sidewalk. The law will represent the greatest change in legislation in this area since 2003. The project provides for the separation of a new group of objects, so-called. service facilities for which specific rules for making available and charging will apply. Amendments and additions to existing rules for the provision of railway infrastructure have also been introduced. The definition of railway station and railway station has also been introduced. They shall be made available in accordance with the rules laid down in this Regulation. The project also provides for the strengthening of independence and defines the powers and mechanisms of the President of the Railway Transport Office. The project also refers to the scope of infrastructure financing, where the development of a multiannual programme is envisaged, which will define tasks for infrastructure managers, e.g. the quality standards during its duration and the resulting financial resources for the implementation of the investment. The adoption of this programme is very important in view of the investment tasks ahead, for which we have defined and envisaged measures which have been identified as one of the priorities for the negotiations in both regional and EU programmes that will be implemented at central level. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the light of the expected expectations, we will support this bill and vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u511	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u512	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, print No. 840. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the amendment of this law, which aims to bring national regulatory standards on rail transport into line with the amendment of European Union law introduced by Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the establishment of a single European railway area and its implementing rules. The project concerns, among others: issues such as changes in the definition of railway infrastructure components, allocation process, capacity and charging for the use of railway infrastructure, strengthening the competence and independence of the regulatory authority, the separation of service facilities and the process of making them available. The general trend of the amendment, which aims to align national definitions with European standards, should be welcomed, as is the case when the definition of infrastructure is aligned with that of Directive 2012/34/EU. It is therefore useful to refer to the introduction of a reference to the new Annex 1 to the Act, which sets out the components of the railway infrastructure in a way that is even more structured than the Directive itself. In this way, the mutual definition of railway infrastructure through the railway area and the railway area through the railway infrastructure has been eliminated, leaving only the definition of the railway area by the railway infrastructure. The proposed amendments should be accepted positively, including: in the definition of the infrastructure manager, the railway line, the railway sidewalk and the railway network. They introduce a legislative order and contribute to a better understanding of the legislation by its addressees. In addition, the introduction into the law of provisions clarifying the scope of certain provisions for infrastructure used exclusively for its own use, where the concept of private infrastructure has been introduced, and for railway infrastructure located in the repair workshops of rolling stock, wagon or locomotive plants contributes to greater flexibility in the application of the law and will certainly have a positive impact on the economics of transport companies. Similarly, a change in the scope of the exemption from the provisions of the Law in respect of railway sidings, which extends the scope of application by Chapter 6 in connection with the obligation to make railway sidings accessible to service facilities, will benefit the real economic processes. At the same time, attention should be paid to the extremely important aspect of expanding the area of automation of rail network management. The Responsible Development Strategy sets the main role for digital technologies in the so-called. the fourth industrial revolution, in which, alongside the in-depth automation of industrial processes and global data processing, there is a far-reaching reconstruction of the entire logistics infrastructure. Ensuring a high level of cybersecurity is a prerequisite for reindustrialisation of the country, including the modernisation of rail transport. The Free and Solidarnia Circle, taking into account the report of the Emergency Sub-Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Rail Transport, which sets out the uniform text of the Act, advocates the proposed project, while at the same time signalling the need to prepare comprehensive legal solutions for ensuring cybersecurity in the rail transport sector, which mark the innovative industry 4.0. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u513	Thank you very much, sir. Three Members have joined the questions. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions. It's time for the question to be asked for two minutes. The first question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u514	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A very important change is the inclusion of sidings in the category of railway infrastructure. Today, their owners have a number of responsibilities, but no longer the privileges enjoyed by road infrastructure managers who serve the general public. Thanks to the change of classification, the owner of the siding will be exempt from the property tax. The financial burden will therefore decrease. In addition, the siding owner will gain access to EU funds for the modernisation or development of infrastructure. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction declared that after the entry into force of the new law it would launch work on a support programme for siding owners. This is very important, because the linear and station infrastructure is beginning to improve systematically and, at the same time, there is increasingly no place to load or unload the goods when it comes to rail. It is certainly too early, but can the Ministry inform the High House at this stage of the support programme I mentioned? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u515	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Sitarski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u516	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question about the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws is: How will the change of regulations affect the timetable in 2017? Will there be funding for commercial, freight and passenger transport? Is the records of active, efficient, mobile tracks in Poland still up to date? Is there a monitoring of their current status? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u517	Thank you, sir. I ask you to ask Mr Sylwester Khrushch a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u518	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We've been working on this bill pretty fast. This was due to the fact that during the term of office, when the Civic Platform ruled, it was simply neglected to introduce this law. Therefore, Minister, I have a specific question: What Poland, our country, was threatened by consequences due to the failure to adopt this law? Would it be just the financial consequences, or would it be any other? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u519	Thank you, sir. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Minister Andrzej Bittel. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to thank you for your widespread support for this presentation. It is really very important and I am glad that the pace of work is dynamic, efficient and runs in a good strictly atmosphere the substance. I will no longer repeat the reasons, because Members, when presenting their positions, have exhausted all aspects, together with this premise, of this submission. I will draw attention to the issue of the maintenance programme, also referring to Mr Goncier's question. The maintenance programme must be distinguished from the investment programme. The investment programme is described in one place, for the maintenance programme we are now creating formal bases. We will develop it, implement it, as I mentioned at first reading, in agreement with the Minister of Finance, who has the money in this regard. So that the shape and the program after the law has been developed we can turn into actions. Once during the work of various bodies there was talk of a siding program, but at this point we are at the stage of a maintenance program for the entire infrastructure. So much for that. I will answer Mr Sitarski's questions about the financing of transport. Game rules are in the Public Transport Act. There are funding issues there. It's not really here. I hope this bill will not affect the timetable. Relevant transitional periods have been introduced. Here's the consistency. As for Mr Khrushch's question of sanctions, I think that financial sanctions would be sufficient for us. I don't want to think about other people anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u521	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the Arthur Rules of Procedure committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u522	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank all Members of all parliamentary clubs working in the extraordinary subcommittee on amending the Rail Transport Act, as well as Members of the Infrastructure Committee, for their very rapid, very efficient work on this document. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u523	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 19 October this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Any of you ladies and gentlemen want to make a statement yet? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. The first statement will be made by Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome. She wrote it down, didn't she? Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Uh-huh. Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszko is a saint who comes from my Sokółski district, I knew him and I know the family very well Fr. George. Today, 19 October 2016, we celebrate the 32nd anniversary of the martyr's death of Blessed Virgin Mary. Fr. George Popieluszko. Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszko was born on 14 September 1947 in the village Okopy near Suchowola in Podlaskie Voivodeship. He graduated from the high school in Suchowola, currently bearing his name. He started his studies at the Higher Seminary in Warsaw. In 1966, 1968 he served as a military force in Bartoszyce. In May 1972 he received priestly ordination at the hands of cardinals. Stefan Wyszyński and worked in parishes: Teeth, Anin, Warsaw. He organized religious-formative-practical meetings for medical students, hospital nurses and doctors. In August 1980, by order of the Cardinal. Stefan Wyszynski worked among the workers and the steel industry. From January 1982 he celebrated Mass on the last Sunday of the month. in the intention of the country with the participation of the crowds of believers from different parts of Poland. In homilys he preached Christian ideals of social justice, freedom, truth, love, defending fundamental human rights and human dignity as a child of God. His words were decisive and courageous. He was the herald of the Gospel principle: conquer evil with good. He actively participated in the trials of those convicted of strikes, supported their families and organized charity aid. In July 1984, he was accused by the Military Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw of defaming state power. There was a campaign of accusations and attacks against Fr. George. On October 19, 1984, when returning from pastoral service in Bydgoszcz, he was banditly assaulted and kidnapped, brutally tortured and murdered by three security officers from the Ministry of Interior, and thrown into the Vistula near Włocławek. On November 3, 1984, the funeral of the murdered priest took place. The Chaplain's body of Solidarity rested at the church of St. St. Stanisława Kostka in Warsaw. The grave of Fr. George became the new national sanctuary. On 6 June 2010, he was beatified by Pope Benedict XVI. Suchowola particularly honors his memory and his parents, Marianna and Władysław, who rest on the parish cemetery in Suchowola. A summary of the 3rd open poetry competition will be held on 23 October 2016. B. Fr. Jerzy, where poets from all over the country participate. The aim of the competition is to show the beauty and the most important truths about human relations, based on teaching of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Fr. George Popieluszko. On that day, the NSZZ delegations from all over the country will pay tribute to the blessed parents. Entering into ideas proclaimed by Fr. Jerzy, a high school from Suchowola, together with the municipality of Suchowola, carries out a project of European Peace Bread - every year the bread of peace is baked from grains originating in 12 countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The main objective of the project is to promote world peace and to promote peace through sustainable development of agriculture in Europe. Moreover, from the sale of these unique breads, scholarships were funded for gifted young people from the school in Suchowola, which bears his name. Initiatives are implemented in cooperation with the Foundation. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, who is led by the blessed family. Thus, Suchowola and Podlaskie repay their debt to the work, which Fr. George made it. Let him rest in peace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u525	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Goncier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u526	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to draw attention to the completed 21st August sports struggle at the Special Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. . Watching the Olympics, which we were able to see live on public television for the first time this year, we can be sure that they were well organized games with great interest. The astonishing attitude of our Somalis, who from the Olympic Olympics are gaining more and more Olympic medals. In the 15th Summer Olympics, 22 sports competitions were held by more than 4300 athletes from 162 countries. In white and red there were 36 players and 54 players in 13 disciplines. Polish athletes, who were 90 in Brazil, won 39 medals: 9 gold, 18 silver and 12 brown. I will also point out that if we compare our budget with other countries' finances, there is a big difference. Achievements measured by the number of medals won were supported by the involvement of players, trainers, activists and parents of athletes. Television Poland did not buy the rights to broadcast the Special Olympic Games in London in 2012. Only short chronicles were shown. This year it is different, because public television has purchased broadcasting rights about 90 hours. Athletes' struggles. The competitions were shown on TVP1, on TVP Sport and on the Sport.tvp website. pl, where a total of about 160 hours was shown. Live coverage. On facilities in Rio de Janeiro Several hundred records have been established for the Special Olympic Games, the world and Europe, as well as national ones. I think it is an excellent reason for the games to be broadcast in the future, from elimination to finals. Paralympian sport is struggling with the problem of raising finance for training players. Due to financial problems, players often have to train in worse conditions, in unfit facilities for them. Many times for a disabled athlete, reaching training is a feat, yet they want and win medals. Every opportunity to promote, all the more so on TV, is a chance to get a sponsor. In the west, sponsorship of disabled athletes is pride, prestige and honour for companies. In our country, commercial television, apart from short snapshots, unfortunately did not have a comprehensive relationship with the struggles in the Special Olympics. Tonight, being a Specialist sounds proud. In the finals of the 1500 m race, as many as four disabled runners crossed the distance faster than the full-time Olympic champion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u527	Thank you very much, sir. The other statements were made in writing. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u528	Statement on the 395th anniversary of the Battle of Chocimi. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! October 9th this year It has been exactly 395 years since the signing of the peace treaty ending the battle of Chocim fought between the army of the Republic of John Charles Chodkiewicz and the Turkish army under the command of Sultan Osman II. It is worth recalling this event because the battle ended with a tactical victory of the Republic of Poland. The number of forces has not yet been clearly defined. However, it is known that the Turkish army was much (two - or three times more) than Polish. And so: Polish troops were probably 25 and 26 thousand, but they received support from the Kozaks in the form of 13 regiments with a total of 22 troops. The Turkish army of Osman II had 70.75 thousand. People. She was supported by about 20,000. The Tatars and 12,000. Moldovans and Volochians. In total, the sultan could have had more than 100,000 at his disposal. soldiers, not counting tens of thousands of domestics. Polish-Lithuanian-Cossack forces were much smaller. That's why the Sultan was sure of his winnings. The Polish-Lithuanian-Cossack forces locked in the fortified camp and stood in the way of the Ottoman army near Chocim. The first battle took place near Prutu sources, where the Tatars attacked several hundred people's Cossack driveway. After a long fight, the Cossacks were defeated, and those remaining alive were murdered by the Sultan order. The news of this, transmitted by the captain, made a great impression, and the Cossacks of Prut were compared to the Spartans of Thermopil. The whole battle lasted six weeks, bloody and exhausting. The Polish-Lithuanian infantry supported by the Zaporist infantry played a major role in defending Chocim. The Cossacks took on their shoulders the main burden of fighting. They fought back five out of ten Turkish assaults. On September 24, the captain Jan Chodkiewicz died. Just before he died, he gave it to Lubomirski. Despite the loss of the chief chief, however, the will to fight did not weaken, and in the Sultan's surroundings the peace party gained the advantage. Osman II himself had had enough of the defeated battles, and the winter was approaching, and before the Turkish army there was a vision of marching through the snow-covered roadless Balkans. The peace negotiations lasted a few days. Finally, an honorable peace treaty was signed for both sides on 9 October 1621. It confirmed the findings of the Bush Treaty four years ago. According to the provisions Poland recognised Turkish authority over Moldova, Poles committed to stop the Kozaks from invaded Turkey and the Turks stopped the Tatars from invaded Poland. Dniestr remained the border of the Republic of Poland. The losses in this battle were about 8,000 on one side. Poles and 6.5 thousand. Cossacks, and on the other side, about 40,000. Turks, Volochs and Moldovans and 2,000. Tatars. The Battle of Chocim was not only the biggest defence operation in the history of Poland, but also the largest positional war in Europe at that time. The overall result was undoubtedly the success of the Polish-Cossack troops. Chocimia's defense confirmed the validity of the old-Polish martial arts saying that the rhyme, musket and kicking victory are cooking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u529	Declaration for National Education Day. Education is the most powerful weapon that can be used to change the world. [[Nelson Mandela]] National Education Day is especially important for me due to the long-term work of teacher and educator. I know very well how demanding it is to work as a teacher, because less than a year ago I left the board to devote myself to parliamentary work. I am very fond of remembering the time of teaching, because it has also become a source of personal development for me. It's not easy to work as a educator. It requires humility, patience and commitment. It does not end with the substantive transfer of knowledge. A teacher is a profession identified with a mission that requires unfailing passion. But it's also a profession that brings smiles on the faces of children every day, joy of their progress and pride in bringing their loved ones by the hand - showing them the value of the world: beauty, good and truth. The role of the teacher is also to shape character and morality in the young man, to show the right way and to prepare for the most important roles in life. Often the school becomes a home for the child, and the teacher becomes the closest family. In view of such accounts, one cannot forget them, and the summation is the words of the thinker: "Teacher rubs himself with eternity, he can never tell where his influence ends... A wise teacher does not invite to the treasurer of his wisdom. Rather, it shows the way to enrich your own. Last week we celebrated National Education Day. On this occasion, I thank all my fellow teachers and educators, as well as my education staff, for the ongoing efforts and the heart that you put into the effective teaching and upbringing of young people. With all my heart, I wish that this familiar difficulty of teaching and responsibility for another person would be a source of strength and courage for you to reach for the highest goals. Accept the best wishes of health, constant patience and smile always and in spite. Let this difficult work bring you respect for your students and understanding of your parents, and the greatest thanks will be personal satisfaction, because those who bring light into the lives of other people also have it for themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u530	Medalists in a five-force battle. The first competition in the military five-horse was held in August 1947 in Freiburg, in the French zone in occupied Germany. They were organized by the founder of this discipline, the French captain. Henri Debrus. The World Military Championships have been held since 1950. Since 1991, there have been ladies fighting for medals in the military five-fight. In Poland, this popular discipline in Western armies has been cultivated since 2002. In 2004 the first Air Force Championships took place. Polish representation with the lieutenant. Magdalena Lorenzo from 10. The Logistics Brigade won the World Championship in the Five Military Championships. From 2 to 6 August 2016 the World Championships in the Five Military Championships took place in Madrid. Polish representation with the lieutenant. Magdalena Lorenzo from 10. The Logistics Brigade won. Your lieutenant comes from Moszczanka, he has been involved in extreme sports for years, among others. long distance runs in difficult terrain. The competition was organized under the auspices of the Confederation of Reserve Officers of NATO countries. A total of 26 teams from all over the world came to Madrid, including five female teams. Poland was represented by the lieutenant. Magdalena Lorenzo from Battalion Command and Security 10. Logistics Brigade in Opole, major. Angelika Gałązka from the Center for Land Forces Training in Poznań and W. Marzena Michalik from 12. The Mechanized Division of Szczecin. The World Cup in the Five Military Championships is a rivalry in the following competitions: shooting with short and long weapons, overcoming the land obstacle course, swimming in a 50 m long uniform through a water obstacle course and a 17-kilometer course of orientation with weapons. All soldiers competed in uniforming the host army. The Polish were favorites of the championship, but the beginning was quite difficult. After shooting with short and long weapons, our representatives took their place just behind the podium. However, further competitions confirmed the excellent form of our competitors. In the course of the 17 km orientation, they left no chance to compete. Our representatives are the only ones who have completed this course. After five competitions, our female team achieved a phenomenal result and won in the Madrid championships. The Poles returned to the country with the highest trophy. This is a great sport success of our contestants, which is worth talking about, the success of Polish Army soldiers. The next five-military championship will be held in Canada. Until now, Poland has only hosted the championship once. This was in 2011. Then the competition took place in Zegrze. Our representation not only congratulates on the excellent outcome, but also thank you for representing our country internationally. By the way, I wish you further success and good luck in Canada.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u531	A statement to commemorate the 32nd anniversary of the martyr's death. Fr. George Popieluszko. On behalf of myself and Members of the Polish Republic, Bożena Borys-Szopa, Jan Mosiński and Janusz Śniadek, I would like to make a statement on the following content. Today we celebrate the 32nd anniversary of the martyr's death. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, a priest whose motto of life was to overcome evil with good. His message is particularly important when we see so much evil, violence and trampling on human dignity around us. As in the martial law, Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszko, despite the persecutions, esbek slanders and slanders in the mass media, was a spokesman and defender of love, truth, justice and dignity of the human person, so today we can also say that he is our defender and herald of Paul's teaching that evil must be fought against good. There's no other way! Thirty-two years after the martyr's death. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, our patron, the guardian of the Independent Self-Solidarity Trade Union (Solidarity), gathers us at the values of Christianity, so important in the age of a globalizing world, pluralism of ideas and expansion of the lack of traditions and religious values so close to our homeland. For us, Poles, Fr. Jerzy became a symbol of opposition to communist totalitarianism, and his words: "Bad things conquer with good are a hallmark for us and for all people. On the 32nd anniversary of death we thank the Blessed Virgin Mary. to the priest for his courage, which at the time of the socialist regime cost him the sacrifice of his life. The martyr's death of the chaplain, Solidarity, brought us together and inspired us to hope for a better tomorrow. Today, when irresponsible people are going to challenge democratically elected authorities, the words of concern for their homeland expressed by Fr. George Popieluszka. Since his death, Fr. Jerzy gathers a stream of pilgrims at his grave: a world of work associated with NSZZ, Solidarity, representatives of other organizations, political parties, Catholics and atheists. The grave of the tortured priest is visited by great figures of the state of the clergy and heads of states from various parts of the world to pay tribute to the great son of the Polish land. Today's anniversary is also an opportunity to convey the words of gratitude to the hierarchs of the Catholic Church for their support of efforts to establish a Blessed See. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko is the patron of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity). We also thank the great nameless crowd of NSZZ members for the efforts of faithful service at the grave of Fr. George.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u532	Declaration on the 110th anniversary of granting city rights to Puławy. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2016 is the year of celebration of the 110th anniversary of granting city rights to Puławy. Puławy is a city in the western part of the Lublin Voivodeship located near the border of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship, located on the Vistula River, on the edge of the Małopolska Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula. It is an industrial centre: chemical, construction, pharmaceutical, scientific industry: five scientific and research institutes, higher and tourist and cultural education which is part of the tourist triangle Puławy - Kazimierz Dolny - Nałęczów. The first quotations of the village lying in the place of Puławy date back to the end of the 15th century. Since the second half of the 17th century. Puławy was owned by Lubomirskis who built their summer residence here. The period of greatness of Puławy, which lasted for 100 years, began in 1731, when Puławy became the property of the Czartoryski family. The remains of their existence are a beautiful palace-park complex located near the cliff of the Vistula. Puławy city rights were granted in 1906, 12 years before Poland regained its independence. The decision to make New Alexandria, Mokradki and Zarobne Puławy a city was made by the tsarist administration, which has controlled these lands since the partitions. It was a gesture aimed at trying to strengthen the power of the Russian possessor by developing a local tsar administration powered by local residents. Previous failed attempts to grant urban rights to Puławy took place in 1824 and 1840. Postwar history of the city dominated the decision to build nitrogen plants by the Polish authorities in 1960. The plants started production in 1966. After that date there was a significant increase in the population and the character of the village changed. From the small town of Puławy they became an industrial city. The Jubilee Year in Puławy abounds with many events commemorating this beautiful anniversary. The programme of the event, which has already started in spring this year, includes, among others: concerts, recitals, festivals, competitions, exhibitions, fun and sports events. An important event in the framework of this event was the solemn session of the city council on the occasion of the 110th anniversary of Puławy, which took place on 2 October 2016 in the Polish Chamber of Chemistry. Before the session, the invited guests gathered at the Holy Mass at the church of St. Our Lady of the Rosary. Among the invited guests who celebrated their presence were: Princess Barbara Czartoryska, head of the Presidential Office of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda Małgorzata Sadurska, MPs at the Polish Parliament Krzysztof Szulowski and Jakub Kulesza, representative of the Lublin Voivodeship, honorary citizens of Puławy, persons awarded with badges for their service to Puławy. There were also councillors of Puławy City Council, local government officials, clergymen, residents of Puławy and many excellent guests. The ceremonial session was started by a lecture by Dr. Robert Derewenda in the history of the nation and the Polish state, from which the gathered could learn about the significant influence of our city and people associated with it on the turbulent history of Poland. After the historical presentation, a screening of the film "Modern Puławy" was held showing what the city looks like 110 years after the granting of city rights. Then four people: Halina Solecka, Zbigniew Mark Śliwiński, Jan Stefan Wawr and Jerzy Witashko were awarded Honorary Badges for their service to Puławy. Many invited guests spoke. The President of Puławy and the President of Puławy City Council also received congratulations letters. The ceremonial session was celebrated by the performances of Puławy artists: the band "Small elevens" from Primary School No. 11, the Song and Dance Team "Powiśle," the ballet band "Etiuda" and dance studios "Pokus" and several Puławy vocalists. For all those who have contributed to the development of the city and its beautiful current shape over the years, I offer my heartfelt thanks and congratulations. Today, I wish the people who are in charge of the city's enormous potential and future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u533	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On October 18th, we celebrated Polish Post Day. The date of birth of the post office in Poland is 18 October 1558. It was then that King Zygmunt Augustus established a permanent postal link between Kraków and Venice through Vienna, by means of mail, that is, space horses. The public institution set up by the monarch was primarily intended to maintain permanent diplomatic and economic contacts with other European countries. The king also wanted to protect himself from the control of the imperial post office, which so far carried Polish letters to Italy. The decision to create a post has accelerated the King's interests. A year after Bony Zygmunt August died, he started a lawsuit for his mother's inheritance. Bona, from the Sforza family, decided to leave Poland, exporting wealth accumulated for more than 40 years. Recovering wealth, money from debtors and obtaining confirmation of the rights of Zygmunt Augustus to Italian succession involved the activity of Polish diplomacy and many advisors and agents. Maintaining constant communication between them and the Polish king required a regular postal connection. On the occasion of such a special holiday, I wish all communicationsmen, posters and employees of Polish Post to wish health and success in professional and private life. At the same time, I wish that your important social service is a source of personal satisfaction and an example of responsibility, loving assistance and sacrifice for the welfare of another person.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-19-sejm-28-1.u534	High Izbo! The meeting is adjourned until 20 October 2016 at 3 p.m. 9. I wish you all a good night. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 24]]
