ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u1	I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media - immediately after the end of the votes, about an hour. 11. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group on Constitutional Governance and the Rule of Law - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Promotion of the Slag - hour. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Deaf people - hour 11.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u2	Thank you, sir. High Seym! The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted draft resolutions: - on the celebration of the creators of the Constitution on 3 May, - to celebrate the 95th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Have all Members taken their seats yet? These designs are 465 and 466 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these projects. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I inform that the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification, without the consent of the Act, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on mutual protection of classified information signed in Warsaw on 27 August 2015. Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report requesting that the Prime Minister adopt this notification without reservation. The committee's report is in print No 456. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 120. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying this document. The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is print number 463. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising (print No 466). Ladies and gentlemen, please rise from your places. I'll read the draft resolution. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising. On the night of 2 to 3 May 1921 the 3rd Silesian Uprising broke out, headed by Wojciech Korfanty - an outstanding politician and great advocate of joining Upper Silesia to the Polish State. Despite several hundred years of separation from Poland, the feeling of a strong relationship between Upper Silesia and Materza never expired. Therefore, it is impossible to understand the history of Poland without the history of Silesia, without the Silesian uprisings, and especially without the Third Silesian Uprising - the victorious break of the inhabitants of Silesian land. The reconstruction of the Second Republic was a complex process, and one of its elements was the return of the Upper Silesia to Poland. The Silesian province, which was created as a result of the raid of the Silesian people, played a very important role in the economic development of the Second Republic of Poland and the reconstruction of our country from destruction after World War II. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland wishes to pay tribute and express its highest respect and appreciation to the Silesian insurgents. Let the great patriotism of the insurgents, the love of the homeland and the bravery and heroic devotion be a sign of conduct and a model of life for present and future generations, and the insurgent acts should remain an expression of the highest patriotism in the national and state-creating dimension. I ask the Sejm to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: a draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on honoring the creators of the Constitution on 3 May (print No 465). Ladies and gentlemen, please rise from your places. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the draft resolution. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on honoring the creators of the Constitution on 3 May. On 3 May 1791, the Grand Sejm adopted the Government Act after a turbulent debate, which was passed into history as a Constitution on 3 May. In 2016, 225 years have passed since this momentous event. The act established at that time was the first fundamental law in Europe and the second in the world. The Constitution of May 3 was a huge breakthrough in Poles' consciousness. Our history shows that great things are most often the result of the solidarity of the whole Nation. The most prominent representatives of lay elites and clergymen were involved in the creation of the Constitution on 3 May. The Constitution on 3 May was an expression of the noblest aspirations and the desires of the state of modern, safe and just. The ideas expressed by the Constitution have inspired political thinkers, legislators, as well as millions of Poles who want to base their national community on the foundation of the rule of law. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland decides this resolution to express its highest gratitude to the creators of the Constitution on 3 May and to all Poles who for decades cherished the memory of it and its ideals. I ask the High Sejm to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on honoring the creators of the Constitution on 3 May. High Seym! The formal proposal is made by Mrs Danuta Pietraszewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for adopting the resolution concerning the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising by acclamation. It's very important for Silesians and Silesia. [[A formal conclusion?]] This is confirmed by the value of this insurgent rally for all Poles and for the whole of Poland. This resolution was to be accompanied by the insurgent exhibition - the director of the Silesian Uprising Museum asked the marshal to do so. Unfortunately, Marshal Kuchciński refused patronage and exposure. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Therefore, I am making a formal request that the marshal explain to us all, and especially Silesia and Silesia, why he did not want to see this insurgent exhibition in the Seym of the Republic of Poland. [[This is outrageous!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Mr. Marshal, we'd very much like to hear some explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u4	Thank you, Member. First of all, I have to check it out because I don't know the case. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Secondly, I would ask, however, that the rules be complied with because this is not a formal proposal. The Group of Members has made a formal request to vote at this session of the Sejm as roll-call votes. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 203 Members voted against - 233, with five abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 406. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 406 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 442 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy. We are returning to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the horse racing law. The additional committee report shall be in print No 422-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Richard Bartosik to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u5	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the horse racing law, print No 356. At its 17th meeting on 27 April 2016, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 422 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 28 April 2016, requests that the proposal to reject the law in its entirety be rejected and that the amendments tabled at second reading be rejected. The Commission also proposes that the law be passed in full after the amendments and the proposal have been rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u6	Thank you, sir. As the Member pointed out, the committee presents a minority proposal and, in an additional report, a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and an amendment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every race, every horse race on the Servant starts with the words: Bomb up. They're on the move! You're on your way, ladies and gentlemen. First you started horse studs in Janów Podlaski and Michałów, and now you want to start the Polish Horse Racing Club. You want to start the horse racing bill. [[But there was no bomb.]] The only purpose of the PiS amendment of this law is to take over the Polish Horse Racing Club, the Polish jockey club. The 2011 Act regulates the organisation of races in Poland, but also this law passed on an inalienable right of ownership to the Polish Horse Racing Club. Today, you decide that Minister Jurgiel should point out the Council and President of the Polish Horse Racing Club. We know what this good change looks like. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The horse couldn't handle it. We therefore call for this project to be rejected in its entirety. [[Applause]] [[Says the ex-Knight.]] [[The horse would laugh at you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u8	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's true. We have already trampled on Janów Podlaski, we hear that the auction of Arabian horses, known all over the world, has become a big question mark. We cannot accept this law for one basic reason. We fear the same thing will happen to the Servant. [[You're gonna fall off a horse.]] The law reduces the number of members of the Council and this might be a good direction, but it gives the Minister the opportunity to conduct this advice too widely, in our view. We could support this law, provided that it would provide participation in the Council, in its work to professionals, representatives of organisations, horse racing organizers, horse breeders or trainers. Meanwhile, we fear that this will be another excavation of the Nicodemus Dismows related to the Law and Justice environment. If you really want to make good changes, support our amendments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] on which we will vote immediately after the motion for rejection. This will show if you want to bring your people on board or if you want to make a good change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u10	High Seym, I have a dilemma here. Because the first speaker was a Member who did not ask a question, but made an appeal. As far as the Member is concerned, if I were to interpret this as a question, I think it would be to the Members of the applicants. Mr Piotr Olszówka spoke on behalf of the applicants. I don't know if he wants to speak... If not, we shall proceed to the vote. [[It was a post factum question.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 201 Members voted against - 233, 8 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 8 and 9. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render amendments 2 and 3 unobtrusive and the minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 176 Members voted against - 235, 33 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose, among others, that the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club consist of 11 members, including 3 appointed from among the candidates presented by the organizers of the races. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render the minority's proposal unobtrusive. The question is raised by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. [[Ihaa...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a saying: First the horse understand, then sit on it. Ladies and gentlemen! This PiS-owska amendment is a marginalization of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club. The Council, in accordance with the 2001 Act, was a representative, representative of breeders, horse owners, horse racing organizers, jockey and coach associations. Today Minister Jurgiel wants to have a body that's not really representative. Mr Jurgiel proposed that, unlike previous regulations, candidates should be able to submit individual horse owners, not organisations we know: the Polish Horse Breeders' Association, the Polish Arabian Horse Breeders' Association and the Polish Horse Breeders' Association. You want to create a marginal body, which will be the advice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This amendment restores the meaning of the functioning of the substance body in the old version. [[Applause]] [[Why do you need these changes?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u12	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that an amendment can be described, but it is ultimately necessary to ask a question in your speech, because it is a round of questions. I understand that some may disagree, but that's the rulebook, so please follow that rule. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 177 Members voted against - 238 and 30 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the minority proposal to Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose, among others, that the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club consists of 11 members, including 2 appointed from among the candidates presented by the organizers of the races. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u13	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Three questions. First of all, why don't you learn from your mistakes? You decided to manually control the studs and you lost. Right now, you have to throw out the man you put at the head of the studs. That's question one. Question two, to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, on 11 March, I submitted a request to the NAP of 25,000. those who oppose changes in studs. As far as I know, in 21 days I should have gotten an answer to that question. It's been six weeks. If you guys have a good change, I know, but I thought you could at least answer the letters. Question three. I haven't been able to find out from Minister Jurgiel for a few weeks what the significance of your Senator Jan Dobrzyński, a private horse-breeder who's been in the personal [[♪ The bell ♪]] trouble with one of the dismissed stud bosses. I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]] [[A horse with a row.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u14	This last question is addressed to... [[Member Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Minister Jurgiel.]] To the bathroom? Pervy means to whom? [[But there were questions.]] The question is asked by Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask if changing the composition, how to appoint and the number of members of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club will significantly affect the fact that horses will run faster, eat less oats, [[Applause]] I don't know if better bets will be on the Servant, we'll be able to win more money, maybe the tax will be less. What does it even matter to our economy and to those poor horses over which you have spent a dozen minutes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u16	Thank you, sir. No one's answering. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: No one knows.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 178 Members voted against - 235, 31 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the third amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 applicants propose that the resolutions of the Council be adopted in the presence of at least 6 of its members. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Here, Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, raises the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u17	Mr. Marshal, the question is, why are you doing this? Ladies and gentlemen, there is a saying: today on the horse runs, tomorrow in the mud. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, within 3 months you have made a complete degradation of the image of a 200-year-old horse stud in Janów Podlaski. [[Honest from the car - the horses are lighter.]] Today you rape the 175-year history of horse racing in Poland. You want Minister Jurgiel, who is famous for the best personal decisions in the framework of a good change - with great pride there is a great shame - that this man should single-personally point to the president of the Polish Horse Racing Club. You also want the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club, which oversees the races in Warsaw, in Sopot, in Wrocław, to be a completely marginal body, within which will also be a representative of the Minister, and individual representatives, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and there will be no representatives of specialised organisations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u18	High Sejm, I inform you that this is about the third amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 concerning the introduction of 6 members of the Council in the adoption of resolutions, so the question is probably addressed to the authors of the amendment, but here there is no possibility that the authors of the amendment will answer. [[I mean, there are questions for the applicant.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the 3rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 174 Members voted against - 236, 29 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. This is where you have come in. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, as part of a good change, you introduced the president to the stud of horses in Janów Podlaski, a activist of Solidarna Poland, who said very sincerely: I had nothing to do with horses, but I would like them to become the passion of my life. Question: Prime Minister, will it be the same with the president of the Polish Horse Race Club, who will behave like a fictional figure from the book Dołęga-Mostowicz, Karier Nicodemus Dyzma? [[Uh...]] I'll remind you of one situation in this movie, from this book. Dyzma picked out the first three in the race: 4, 7, 1. When asked how he predicted such an incredible outcome, he replied: 4 - because the horse has four legs, 7 - because today is the seventh day of the week... [[Get to the point, man.]] ...and 1, because I'm in the races for the first time. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to see this fictional film character suddenly become a reality. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We call on you to hold a competition for the role of President of the Polish Horse Race Club, and not to entrust this role to the Minister of Agriculture for one person. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Dyzma.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u20	What am I supposed to do now? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Maybe a break. I don't know.]] I would like to ask Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u21	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, It's a little sad that horses, especially dead horses, and the dying Arabian horse auction have become a symbol of a good change in the exercise of the Law and Justice. Unfortunately, this bill is another law that can remove the environment of people involved in horse racing from the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club. I have a question for the Minister as to whether he is familiar with the list of members of the horse racing board and whether they will also be people, as in the case of Janów Podlaski, who know little about horses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They know from the picture.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u22	There you go. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 422, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The vote was 235 against - 199, 11 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a bill amending the horse racing bill. We are returning to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law on specific rules for the implementation of certain tasks in the field of informationization of the activities of tax administrations, customs and tax control. The additional committee report shall be in print No 430-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Łukasz Schreiber to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u23	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific rules for the implementation of certain tasks in the field of computerization of the activities of tax administrations, customs and tax control. The Committee on Public Finance met at its meeting on 28 April to discuss the amendment tabled at second reading. The Commission recommends that the High House reject this amendment. At the same time, the Public Finance Commission recommends the adoption of an entirely governmental bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u24	Thank you, sir. The Commission is proposing, as the Member has said, the adoption of the draft law from print no. 430. The additional report sets out an amendment that we will be voting on first. This is the only amendment. The applicants shall propose that paragraph be deleted. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We have a Member who has asked the question. Member of Blazej Parda, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know how much you think a member of the board of directors of a company that will perform the tasks of the Ministry of Finance should earn, but it's certainly not less than 36,000. zł, because that's the limit in the chimney bill that you're kicking out of this law right now. That amendment's fixing it. Minister, how much do you want to pay the board members, 50,000? A month, 100,000. A month, 200,000.? What kind of an internship in Law and Justice does it take to get a job like this? Are there lucky people in the courtroom whose family will be on the board of this company? If so, I would like to congratulate a very capable family. The sealing of the tax system is very important and we agree with this, we fully support this idea, but this solution itself is quite weak. On the other hand, we know that time flies and billions of the state budget are running away, which is why I will personally abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u26	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 196 voted against - 241, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, is reporting to ask questions or questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u27	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It is true that when it comes to computerization of different systems in Poland, we are, as they say, far behind the Negroes... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...and there's a lot to be done about it. It is true that many countries have managed to fight the gap in Vata, reducing the number of controls and betting on good system solutions. But I'm afraid you're going to create a special purpose company. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] another programme isolated from the rest of the system, a system which will not be able to counteract the actions of people who abuse, they extort VAT in Poland. We believe that we have individuals in Poland who are able to create comprehensive solutions actually allowing us to create a comprehensive IT system in our country, which will combine different goals... [[I can't hear you.]] ...and as a result, it will bring concrete solutions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Think about it, Prime Minister... [[Think about it.]] ...if it wouldn't be a better way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u28	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask, is it really necessary to seal this system, this tax administration, in order to improve its effectiveness, to create new entities with new presidents and new salaries? Do we not have enough officials in the ministry to handle this, that more actors are needed because otherwise this cannot be done? Who will account for the effectiveness of these actions? I would like to ask: If it turns out after six months that there is no efficiency, and the costs are, will you be able to autoreflex and change your decision? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u30	The answer to this last question, Mr President, is clear. Outside the government of the Sejm, as an institution controlling the government, it will decide. But, of course, the questions have been asked. And yet, Mr Andrzej Jaworski, the Law and Justice Club, raises the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Committee on Public Finance at its last meeting dealt with the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the poor functioning of the finances of the Civic Platform in recent years. The loss on VAT for 2015 alone is over PLN 80 billion. Let us not be afraid of the solutions that will lead to the fact that money will eventually go to the Treasury budget. Let us not say that tens of thousands of zlotys are the amount that Poland cannot afford when we lose tens of billions of zlotys. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u32	Please. This is Killian Munyama from the Civic Platform Club. [[Killion, Killion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Once again, I would like to ask here that parliamentarians know what language to use. Modern, which is a modern party, [[Joy in the Chamber]] He lives practically, I don't know, in the 19th century. [[Applause]] [[In abstraction. He lives in abstraction.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot tolerate such a language in the Polish Parliament. [[To the ethics committee.]] Mr. Marshal! I ask you to take a break and instruct you that you simply do not use such a language. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Scandal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u34	Thank you, sir. But I consider your speech to be part of the discussion, the polemics, not a question or a formal motion. On the other hand, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, is being corrected. [[Game in the O.R.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u35	I'm a long way from it. It was simply an unfortunate statement on my part, and I wanted to apologise to you very much, because I am far from such thoughts. [[Scandal.]] I was guided by a proverb that should actually disappear from the Polish language. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr. President, I'm sorry. [[Applause]] It wasn't my intention to offend you or any other foreigner in Poland... [[Scandal.]] [[Munyama is a Pole, not a foreigner.]] ...because I am far from spreading racist slogans in our country, but on the contrary - at every step I try to actually fight with such thinking. Mr President, I apologize once again to you and to all those who may have been offended in Poland today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u36	At the moment, the Minister of Finance, Paweł Szalamach, will speak. There you go. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your conversations quiet because I can't hear what the Members have said.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u37	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, I would like to comment on a few questions and concerns about the special purpose vehicle called: Critical applications that we intend to invoke. Well, I think we all have a diagnosis here. I mean, as far as the ability of the Polish state to effectively and quickly diagnose pathology and point-to-point addressing these taxpayers or those parts of them who have created themselves a delusion, it is wrong. To break this, a package of actions is needed. Of course, it's about legal changes, but as we all know, the law doesn't talk about how people will behave, but how they should behave. And in order for these two sentences to produce the same result, you need the state's ability to diagnose these pathologies instantly in real time. And indeed, if we look at the experiences of other countries that have faced this problem - it is very different countries: the Czech Republic, Portugal or even the Netherlands - we see that the breakthrough point was the ability to implement modern IT tools instantly. We're doing an e-Tax program. The agreement was signed in 2013, but practically does not contain what is needed to effectively combat the VAT gap, so we decided to implement this particular bypass, let's call it an organisational bypass, which is a special purpose company, which will perform these tasks within a period of more than a few months. The implementation of IT tasks in the public sphere in Poland lasts 4 and 6 years, the effects are very often neglected, budgets exceeded, and at the end it is very often still scandalous. As far as responsibility is concerned - these questions have already been asked, Mr Marshal answered - of course I will have full political responsibility for this, perhaps also legal responsibility. This is also supported by a direct procedure for the appointment of the authorities of this company, i.e. a direct decision concerning the appointment of both the board of directors and the supervisory board. Indeed, there was a discussion about whether there would be competitions there. There's not gonna be any competitions. The Minister of Finance will have full responsibility. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u38	There you go. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 430 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 250 Members voted against - 168 and 27 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on specific rules for the performance of certain tasks in the field of computerization of the activities of tax administrations, Customs and tax control. We return to item 7 on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on: - a parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and on the amendment of certain other laws, - a senate bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. The additional committee report shall be in print No 447-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Mark Ast to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u39	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present an additional report of the committee, contained in print No 447-A, on the draft of the Polish Parliamentary Law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and on the amendment of certain other laws from the print No 334 and the Senate bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance contained in print No 374. On yesterday's day, the committee considered the amendments tabled at second reading and recommended that amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 12, 13 and 14 be rejected, while amendments 6, 9, 10 and 11 be adopted. At the same time, I would like to inform the High House that there was a mistake in the second reading report as regards the numbering of amendments [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] tabled during the examination of the bill, but the marshal during the vote will present minority proposals in the correct order. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u40	There you go. The Commission proposes, as the rapporteur has said, the adoption of the draft print law 447 and also presents the amendments and proposals of minorities, on which we will vote first. Amendments 1, 3 and 7 were withdrawn by the applicants. Minority requests from 1 to 9 and amendments from 2 to 11 were submitted to Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants propose not to add point 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 176 Members voted against - 268, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the second minority proposal to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to specify the majority of the votes required to elect the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. The question is raised by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! [[Swallow the gum.]] Procedated laws are bad laws. The Institute of National Remembrance should be the last institution to be politicized. Unfortunately, you are pursuing it at all costs to politicize it. I wanted to ask you about the National Remembrance College. You have such manners that from the very beginning, because it has already appeared in the departmental law, you are reducing qualifications, requirements for people who are to sit in certain bodies. Why did you give up the requirement of higher education in the case of people who would enter this body, which has always been, since the beginning, a body consisting of outstanding personalities, educated, having extensive experience in the history and historical heritage of Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u42	I understand that this question is addressed to the committee on behalf of the rapporteur. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 177 voted against - 262, 4 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority proposal to Article. 10a applicants propose to add paragraph. 2a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 187 votes against, 253 and 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 15 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 3 and 4. The adoption of the 4th minority proposal will render the 2nd amendment futile. Mr Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform Club, asks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u43	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to draw your attention to the way in which the Members of the College of National Remembrance are elected. I would like to remind you that, according to these proposals, members of the college are to be elected by the Sejm, the Senate and the President, which is really one political environment, without external stakeholders, which I believe will lead to a complete politicisation of the institute. I would like to remind you that, in the current legal state, the members of the IPN council are elected by the Sejm, the Senate and the President, but candidates are presented by representatives of universities, by institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences or by the legal environment: the National Council of the Court of Justice or the National Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, I would like to ask the applicants: Why did you give up the participation of the scientific community in the process of selecting members of the College of National Remembrance Institute? In my opinion, the involvement of these environments guaranteed that members [[♪ The bell ♪]] The college would not come from political nominations and would guarantee the apoliticity of the institute. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u44	There are no calls for answers. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 178 Members voted against - 266, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the second amendment to the article. 15 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 199 votes against - 234, 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 17 and add Article. 17a. This amendment is combined with the 5th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. And here Mr Antoni Mężyłko, the Civic Platform Club, raises the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club for fundamental reasons, as this change, this amendment of the IPN Act aims to be fully politicised by eliminating the scientific community from the process of appointing the IPN authorities, both the President of the IPN and the College of IPN, will vote against, while the applicant Member at first reading - and this is also stated in the explanatory memorandum - said that this law is about improving the functioning of the IPN. During the first reading, the whole Sejm agreed to adapt the territorial structure of the IPN to the administrative structure of the country. And here we are proposing an amendment that deals with this issue in five regulations, and it will not be difficult to make it possible for every voivodship to have branches, because in these voivodship cities where there are no IPN units, there are delegations, and that is not a big cost. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a very small case. That is why I am asking the applicant, the representative of the applicants, why you changed your mind from first reading to today's vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u46	Would the applicant like to speak? Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk is acting on behalf of the applicants. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u47	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to stress that, for the moment, the structure of the IPN is determined on the basis of the structure of the appeals courts. We do not rule out that in the future, the new President of the IPN, after an analysis of the state of ownership, the state of resources, but also by adapting the Institute to the new law, to the new system, may make such adjustments, but it will already be the decision of the new authorities of the institute and the new college. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u48	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 204 Members voted against - 235, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 19 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 237 voted against - 201, three Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. 23 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5. And here Mr Tomasz Romankowski, the Kukiz Club15, asks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u49	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment is a substantive amendment. It establishes the establishment of the Office of the College of National Remembrance Institute. This is due to the fact that the College of the Institute of National Remembrance is the administrative body to which the persons to whom the President of the Institute of National Remembrance issued a negative decision will refer. And the question is that the formalities will be met: Are you not afraid of the situation of the body of the college, without lack of protection in the form of the Office of the College of National Remembrance Institute, or will the competition, which will be organised by the College, be conducted in an efficient and dynamic manner? This facility - administrative, expert, secretary - is simply necessary and it will only secure the proper functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance, and in this case the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u50	On behalf of the applicants, because the rapporteur, I do not see... Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u51	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr. Speaker! I will reassure you that the Act on the Institute states that, in matters not governed by this Act, the President of the Institute regulates these matters by statute... [[At present, yes, but he doesn't have to.]] [[Maybe, but he doesn't have to.]] ...so that this organisational issue of the functioning of the college will be specified in the Statute that the President will issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u52	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 170 Members voted against - 264, with five abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th minority application, applicants propose not to repeal Article. 49. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 173 Members voted against - 263, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 7th minority proposal to Article. 53 applicants propose to add point 8. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 196 Members voted against - 243, with 4 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 8th minority proposal to Article. 53d applicants propose to add paragraph. 4. The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u53	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In this request of minorities, we propose to add a provision that during exhumation or treatment with remains, with human ashes that were found, and circumstances indicate that they were ashes of people who professed Jewish religion, this would be notified to the Jewish Community in the Republic of Poland. It also applies to the possibility of the union's representatives taking part in proceedings to secure human remains. This is because Jewish religion is the only religion that has its own specific rules in dealing with human remains. I would like to say that the specific rules on religion are introduced in our legislation on various matters. For example, many public holidays are Christian or Catholic holidays. The secret of confession is recognized as a secret that protects against the need to pass on information obtained during confession. [[♪ The bell ♪]] By introducing this provision, we would pay respect to those people who died in Polish lands under terrible circumstances, in an unworthy and shameful manner, were murdered. With this provision, we will honor their religion and keep it in mind. Why do you not agree to this provision? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u54	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour... Here you go, Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk. [[We're already in the middle of a vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u55	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I would like to answer, because this issue was actually addressed at the meetings of committees or subcommittees and committees on which representatives of Jewish communities were present. The expectations of representatives of Jewish communes were such as to include in the bill a statutory obligation to inform the Jewish commune by the prosecutor conducting the investigation, the institute that there was an exhumation or exhumation of remains, which may be the remains of victims of totalitarianism of the Jewish religion. In view of the above, a discussion took place. We felt that typing or, as it were, distinguishing only one religion could raise constitutional doubts. Furthermore, such interference in the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance seems unjustified. That is why we have asked the Minister of Justice to issue such recommendations in the guidelines for the prosecution's investigation or the main committee. Because this relates to the circumstances in which this municipality will participate in preparatory proceedings or criminal proceedings. Therefore, we believe that the right place to regulate this case is the prosecutor general's guidelines, not the provision in the National Remembrance Institute Act. We therefore recommend that this amendment should not be accepted and regulated in the prosecutor's guidelines. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u56	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 173 Members voted against - 261 and 9 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 8th amendment to the article. Paragraph 53f. 1 applicants propose, among other things, that the headquarters of the Genetic Material Base be the city of Szczecin. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We have three Members who have asked questions. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u57	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2012, under the agreement between the Pomeranian Medical University and the Institute of National Remembrance, a Polish genetic base was established in Szczecin, which the Institute of National Remembrance runs for the purpose of the Institute of National Remembrance. When we created an institute, no one predicted that genetic research would contribute so much to identifying the victims of totalitarianism. That's why there's no record of a genetic database in the bill. The applicants propose to create a genetic base within the framework of the IPN structure, but - outrageously - not based on the achievements of the existing database, but by destroying it, they want to create a base again. It bothers them that the base is in Szczecin. The creation of a base is the work of Szczecin scientists, also appreciated abroad. This base is used as a model and uses Szczecin experiences, among others. Germany and Israel. This is a work of which scissors are proud, and this House should also be proud. The amendment aims to locate the genetic database of IPN in Szczecin. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Szczecin, over which, I remind you, a white and red flag is flying. You often emphasize that. Today we have to give a witness. Don't take from Szczecin what Szczecin built himself. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The shipbuilding industry has fallen...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u58	Thank you. Mr Joachim Brudziński, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u59	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment tabled by Mr Sławomir Nitras to make Szczecin the home of the Genetic Material Base, for all of us West Pomerania MPs, at first glance seems very attractive and legitimate. It is here, full agreement, Mr Szczecin scientists, Szczecin geneticists and historians, that Prof. Szwagrzik managed to restore dignity and respect for the temporal remains of Polish heroes who were best murdered by Stalin's oppressors. But it is also often the case, sir, that hell is paved with good intentions. It is often also so that these emotional and, at first glance, rational arguments which you have presented here, using even such imponderabil terms as that the white and red flag blows over the Polish Szczecin... After all, this is, as the classic says, the obvious. It is a pity, Mr Szczecin, that you did not remember this when you were liquidating the shipyard in Szczecin. [[Applause]] [[What does that have to do with anything?]] And today, you're making such a strong reference to the genetic material base in Szczecin. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to make this very clear, actually, to ask the rapporteur a question... [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] ...or is it true that all the records in the draft of this law relating to the functioning of the Genetic Material Base were created in agreement with the Rector Professor Andrzej Ciechanowicz... [[That's not true.]] ...and Dr. Andrzej Ossowski, and there is no danger that the achievements of the Szczecin scientists so far will be arbitraryly transferred anywhere? [[Time.]] It is at the request of the Szczecin scientists that a scientific consortium consisting of medical universities, including the Szczecin University, will be established. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u60	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For us, in turn, a logical error is the attempt to create a Genetic Material Base, since one base works in Szczecin, and that is very good. For us, this is the creation of another financial pier, and I believe that the IPN has no increased resources to sustain itself. We are absolutely in favour of leaving the status quo and that base in Szczecin. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u62	Thank you. The question was to the rapporteur, but he wants to answer the applicant, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u63	Yes, thank you very much. High Izbo! There are many misunderstandings here, misunderstandings in these voices from Members who are asking about the base. [[You're one big misunderstanding.]] I want to clarify the essentials. This amendment introduces new functions and new tasks of the Institute of National Remembrance, among others. the function of searching for victims of totalitarianism. But this search must involve identifying the victims of totalitarianism. So far he has done so - and will continue to do so - the Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin, which has a genetic base, has the remains of the victims of totalitarianism, our heroes who were murdered. And I want to stress this, to be clear, Mr Nitras: no one in this base, no one in Szczecin will carry out these remains. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Another thing is the creation of an IT base when it comes to both victims and their families. This will be managed by the Institute of National Remembrance, because this is the information that should be in the resources of the Institute of National Remembrance. On the other hand, further research, sample issues, medical research, identification issues - all of this will be done by Szczecin, as well as other universities, and this will come directly from the law, because there will be agreements between such universities, such universities and entities which have statutory powers to carry out such research and identify. So, Mr Nitras, do not mislead the public. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u64	And in the mode of correcting Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u65	Thank you, Marshal. The facts are: today - for 4 years - the base exists in Szczecin. If this bill is adopted, this base will be in Warsaw. And that's the facts. [[This isn't a base.]] Mr Szczecin, leave something in Szczecin. Thank you. [[Applause, buzzing in the room, ringing the bell]] [[The yard!]] [[We'll leave the celebrity behind.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u66	I'm asking you to calm down because we're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 180 Members voted against - 228, with 31 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 53f applicants propose e.g. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 10. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 228 voted against - 210, 2 abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose after Article. 53f add a new article authorising the Minister responsible for Health to issue a regulation. This amendment is combined with the 11th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 10 and 11 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 243 votes against - 199, 2 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the 9th minority proposal, applicants propose not to add Chapter 6b: Carrying out tasks to commemorate combat and martyrdom. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 178 Members voted against - 260, 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. The 10th minority proposal and the 12th amendment were tabled to the law on graves and war cemeteries. In the 10th minority application, applicants propose inter alia. maintain the existing wording of the Article. 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 173 Members voted against - 268, 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 12th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 4b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. And it is Mr Antoni Mężyłko, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 2 moves the provisions of the Implementing Regulation of the Minister of Home Affairs of 1936 to the Law on graves and war cemeteries. No standards have been transferred from § 3, and they are important, because it is the notification of persons by IPN, persons entitled to burial, as well as the possibility of burying these exhumed corpses in family cemeteries. That is why I ask the Member of the applicant's representative: Why are you not? Or not, because you don't? Is this standard included in the general provisions? If so, in what way? I believe that there will be a gap that will be quite burdensome for the families of those who will be exhumed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u68	Please. Which is, specifically, why you're against it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because why aren't you... What does that mean? Why are you on it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u69	No, Mr President, because the committee voted in favour of voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u70	I understand, sir. Can the applicant answer or does he not see the need? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 208 voted against - 234, 4 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Minority requests 11 and 12 have been reported to the cemetery and burial law. In the 11th minority application, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the Law on cemeteries and the hiding of the dead. The adoption of the 11th minority proposal will render the 12th minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. Two Members abstained in the vote 179 against - 263. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 12th minority proposal to Article. 15a applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. We'll proceed with the vote. Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of the 12th minority request would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 209 Members voted against - 231. Five Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 13th. the proposal for a minority applicant proposes to maintain the existing wording of the Museums Act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour 13. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 174 voted against - 265, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 14th minority proposal, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the law on government departments. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 177 Members voted against - 264, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 15th minority proposal to Article. Paragraph 24 Point 1 of the Act on National and Ethnic Minorities and on Regional Languages propose not to repeal lit. I. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. Four Members abstained in favour of 174 against 264. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 16th minority proposal to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 of the Act amending the applicant proposes to maintain the existing Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Combat and Martyrdom, the Voivodeship Committees for the Protection of Memory of Combat and Martyrdom and the Committees for the Protection of Memory of Combat and Martyrdom. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th minority proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 174 Members voted against - 263, with five abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 17th minority proposal to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act amending the applicant proposes to keep the Office of the Council for the Protection of Combat and Martyrdom Memory. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 176 voted against - 264, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 18th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 11 and Article 11 (13) and Article 11 (13) and Article 11 (13) and Article 11 (13) and Article 11 (13) and Article 11 (13) and Article 11 (13) and Article 11 (13) and Article 11 (13) and Article 11 (13) and Article 11 (13) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 166 Members voted against - 264, with four abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 13th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. The 14th Amendment Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 208 Members voted against - 230 and 4 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 19th minority proposal, applicants propose to retain the law on the Council for the Protection of Combat and Martyrdom. And here's the question. Mr Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform Club, is reporting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u71	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! One of the negative consequences of the entry into force of the rules we are talking about today is the liquidation of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Walk and Martyrdom, an institution which has been very active and successful in recent years in order to commemorate historical events, places and figures in the history of the struggle and martyrdom of the Polish people both in Poland and abroad. The opinions of independent organizations such as the Federation of the Katyn Families and the Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation confirm this. Both organisations are also very positive about the cooperation between the Council for the Protection of Combat and Martyrdom Memory and them. I would like to ask the applicant: Why do you change a well-functioning mechanism? Why are you destroying a functioning institution? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u72	You will answer Arkadiusz Mularczyk on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u73	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr. Speaker! You can say this: new times, new challenges. Memory of Polish heroes and commemoration of Polish national heritage requires professional action. In short, the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom worked only 30 people, half of which were substantive workers. We now take the commemoration of the victims of totalitarianism to the Institute of National Remembrance in which we work more than 2 thousand. employees and whose budget is almost PLN 300 million. I think there is no doubt that more professionally, these functions will be performed by employees of the Institute of National Remembrance than by several officials of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u74	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 174 Members voted against - 264, with 4 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 14th Amendment, applicants propose a different date for the entry into force of the Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 210 Members voted against - 232, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Now I will ask Members to ask questions. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u75	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants of this bill. Why do you politicize the Institute of National Remembrance? The Council of the Institute of National Remembrance has so far been appointed from among persons reported by the scientific community. Three institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences had the right to report them, universities departments, which had the right to give the title to a doctor of habilitation of humanities. In this way, the resulting council enjoyed the confidence of historians, enjoyed public confidence. They were indeed people proposed by those high scientific groups who met certain standards. Today you are proposing to completely cut off the scientific community, the Polish Academy of Sciences, historical departments, universities than to propose candidates that the Sejm and the Senate elect to the Council of the Institute of National Remembrance - now it is to be called a college. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Moreover, those selected there do not even need to have a higher education, even if they do not have to have a Matura, they can choose each one for such advice. Is this how you want to build trust in this institution? Or is this institution to be transformed into a party tube of one party that currently exercises power? In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we will not build trust in our history, we will not present it in the right light, only the Institute of National Remembrance, which publishes a lot of books, conducts educational, exhibitional policy, conducts scientific research, will become a propaganda tube of the ruling majority, not an institute of memory of the entire nation. I am not talking about sharing power with other groups, I am talking about pushing scientists away from putting candidates and influencing the institute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u77	It's disgraceful that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u78	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u79	...Polish science is how you treat and dismiss it from...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u80	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u81	...even sending candidates to the board of the institute. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u82	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, you have left your card. I'd like to repeat your question. Why do you politicize the Institute of National Remembrance? This debate lacked one very important thing, a question about the ethical dimension of the Institute of National Remembrance. That question didn't come up. I want to tell you that in our era there has been such a mix of good and evil that man... [[Exactly.]] ...is losing sense of existence. The Institute of National Remembrance mixed everything up with everything. You take away our ethical imagination here in this room, but also our society. This is unacceptable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u84	Member Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u85	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Institute of National Remembrance is one of the few institutions which the Republic of the Round Table has created, and it is an institute that actually serves the entire Polish nation. This amending act and the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, and other laws improves the functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance, primarily this institution. [[Applause]] Of course, some of the amendments that we have tabled have not been taken into account, for example, this small cosmetic amendment, aimed primarily at improving and stability of the Institute of National Remembrance, because this is the national good. That is why we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Surprise, really.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u86	Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk has yet come forward on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u87	High Izbo! Thank you so much for this debate. I also thank the Kukiz Club for supporting the bill. You can ask the Civic Platform and Mr Święcicki what you are afraid of. What are you afraid of? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Stop it.]] I would like to say that a member of the college according to the law can be a person who stands out with high moral values and knowledge useful in the work of the institute. [[Applause]] [[But who's gonna judge that? Cenckiewicz, Macierewicz?]] [[According to your standards.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen. There are people, there are people who in the '70s and '80s held prison sentences, couldn't get a higher education. There are people like that. [[Applause]] And we want to honor, commemorate and honor such individuals. [[Then type it in.]] Some of them have no higher education because they were in prison for your freedom. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] And now I'm going to tell you what those professors you've chosen have been doing. [[Careful.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have established a council whose members were elected by universities, by the scientific community. [[Guys, not professors.]] And where did that end up? The fact that President Łukasz Kaminski made dozens of deals with these professors... [[Not a single one was signed by the president.]] ...ten civil-law contracts... [[Yes.]] ...for the reviews of publications, for publishing publications. [[They're professors.]] And those who were supposed to control him were actually on his pot. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Every year they accepted his report. So we're healing it. [[Applause]] I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that this amendment is a good amendment. He will give instruments to make the Institute of National Remembrance an efficient unit to create Polish identity, to build pride about Polish history. I am convinced that this amendment will play this role. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u88	I see you are reporting to Marcin Święcicki. In what mode, sir? [[Corrections.]] Corrections. There you go. [[Voice from the hall: Yes, sir, authority.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u89	Mr Mularczyk, the fact that scientists from this council have prepared reviews or publications is one thing. We're introducing a clear, unambiguous provision here that you can't... [[We're the ones who bring it in.]] Yes. There was no objection to this, the opposition did not oppose the introduction of this provision to make it clear. We do not object to the provision that members of the college should not conclude publishing, review contracts, any other agreements with the Institute of National Remembrance, but this has nothing to do with the way people are elected to the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. It's about how you choose. You have completely cut off the scientific community from the influence on who's being chosen there. And this is our accusation that you are cutting off the Polish Academy of Sciences, cutting off the historical departments of the best Polish universities from proposing candidates to the Institute of National Remembrance. You want to make this an instrument of your historical policy, to which people will not have confidence, which will become a tool of some kind of political struggle at the moment. That's our charge. Once again, you've cut off the scientific community. The elimination of a possible conflict of interest, which is debatable as to whether these people can be accused of it or not. The clear provision was not here, it will be clear, it will be clear. On the other hand, the method of recruiting and selecting candidates for the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - it is scandalous that the scientific community wants to cut off and completely, 100% , politicalize it... [[Okay, sit down.]] ...and completely addict to the current majority, which is the PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u90	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 447, together with the amendments adopted, namely four, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 267 Members voted against - 174, 4 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals and some other laws. [[Applause]] We would like to return to the review of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Social Policy and Family Committee on the draft law amending the Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 412. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 412, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. Fourty Members voted in favour, no one voted against, two abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer. We would like to refer to item 9 on the following: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Registration and Protection of the Names and Designations of Agricultural Products and Foods and on Traditional Products and on certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 450. And this is where Mrs Ewa Lieder from the Modern Club comes in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u91	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We support this bill because of the adaptation of Polish law to EU standards. EU labels support the protection of regional traditions, and ensuring the quality of regional products can be included in one of the development paths of Polish agriculture, which is a promotion for Polish regions. Besides, it is simply that the Polish consumer knows what he eats and that he buys articles well marked. That's a good direction. And my question is: If you are able to draw up such laws and adapt to the good advice of the European Union, which is why you are destroying your legislative action, through the actions of the relevant ministers, e.g. I will let Białowieża, which is on the UNESCO World Heritage List? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Because ax care, ladies and gentlemen, is not nature conservation. [[Applause]] [[What does a gingerbread have to do with a windmill?]] And why are you destroying a wonderful tradition of breeding? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Arabian horses in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u92	Madam President, we are talking about agricultural products and foodstuffs. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] I don't know if the Bialowieza Forest is in this area. I don't know who can explain it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Then, if you'll excuse me, we'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no.450 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The vote was 443 against - 1 Member, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on registration and protection of the names and designations of agricultural products and foodstuffs and on traditional products and certain other laws. We are returning to the review of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of Directive 2014/54/EU of 16 April 2014 on measures to facilitate the exercise of rights granted to workers in the context of the free movement of workers. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 454. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No.454, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. Four hundred and thirty-six Members voted against - one abstention. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions Act, the State Labour Inspection Act and the Act implementing certain European Union rules on equal treatment. We return to the consideration of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on national media. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. And here you have asked your fellow Members. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We will ask for the rejection at first reading of the draft laws, because, please, point one, we believe that the laws violate constitutional order through the circumvention of the constitutional legitimacy of the National Radio and Television Council and because the media council is being formed. The second point, we believe, is the introduction of a new tax under the name of a visual charge, but it is a tax that will painfully hit the poorest and is not thought out - I hope that we will improve it, because the project will anyway, that we will work it out in subcommittees or committees - it is not a thoughtful good collection of this money. Four months of public media activity shows where we are headed. Radio and television have become a tool of brutal propaganda that has nothing to do with professionalism. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the media. The last point, this bill, ladies and gentlemen, is 20th century. We're in the 21st century. She's archaic, she doesn't take into account the changing media market at all, including she barely notices the Internet at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u94	Please. At the moment, Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u95	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, The procedure for the procedure of this law alone shows that it cannot be independent, reliable, objective, pro-social media, and this is what we expected from the long-awaited media law. [[You should have done it, not waited.]] And that's ridiculous. The procedure that eliminates the importance of the National Radio and Television Council... We have such a clear financial roulette. Here we're showing savings in laws, and here we're calling the National Media Council. A member of the National Media Council will earn more than 4,000 and the President will earn more than 6,000. zł. And I have a question: Is it true that the Council of National Media will have active politicians of Law and Justice? And why such an outrageous record of the appointment of members to the National Media Council, the idea that it is chosen from 3 rather than e.g. 10 or 20 candidates from the opposition club? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u96	There you go. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Club Civic Platform. [[This one hasn't apologized yet for 1968.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u97	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have three questions for Members of the applicants. Do you really believe that the nation is you and only you, and therefore... [[Yes.]] [[They said yes.]] Well, thank you. I think I can be grateful to you on behalf of the nation. Therefore, by creating your own propaganda media company, you have the courage to name it national. Question two. If the nation is you and you alone, then you should point out to us these experts, these people and those environments that have been consulted, or admit that you know that all the thesis and these laws are lies. And only you have not yet recovered from the doctrine of your leading propagandaist, who thought that the dark people would buy everything. Question two... [[Third.]] ...is about the National Media Council. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is: How do you - maybe you can tell us this patent - you can deflect something completely, to the bottom, 100% Stubborn? That's a philosophical question. And a third. [[Four.]] [[Fifth.]] Do we have a chance to look forward to any law on the part of law and justice that doesn't break the constitution? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u98	Thank you very much. Of course, the second question is repeated. [[Show yourself, Basia, show yourself.]] [[I already showed up.]] I will merely quote a passage from the Constitution: We, the Nation of Poland - all citizens of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] The question is asked by Mr Piotr Liroy-March, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u99	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr. President! I hope that after yesterday's discussion, at least this is what I concluded from the closing statements, you will sit with us for cooperation during the committee meeting, that in fact the draft of this bill... [[Voice from the O.R.: What are you hoping for?]] ...will be refined with people from many backgrounds. [[From other nations.]] I hope that these environments will not really be left on ice alone and will not watch you really process this bill yourself and decide what's going on there. I have a request, another one: look at all these environments. These environments are really waiting, reaching out to work together to work out a really good bill for future generations. I hope that in the committee all the opposition's comments will be noticed this time and you will vote for them, not that there will only be discussions on the committee that everything will work out. I'd like to, if we decide on the committee that the amendments are bringing something important [[♪ The bell ♪]] to this bill so you can support it. Because if you're not going to support these amendments later in this room, it doesn't make any sense at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u100	Thank you, sir. The questions were addressed to the applicant's representative. Mrs Barbara Bubula is a representative, so I ask the Member to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u101	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! I first have an answer for Mr Liroy-Marc, who has asked a constructive question, a specific question, concerning the amendments. Of course there will be profound discussions on these amendments and improvement of these projects. This is what the announcement of a public hearing and a broad consultation is supposed to be made before the law is processed in subcommittees, committees and finally in the Sejm. So that I can make such assurances. On the other hand, as for those representatives of the clubs who are asking for the rejection of this project without discussion and without the possibility of improvement, please look back and see the media situation under the Civic Platform, PSL and SLD. [[Well, well, well.]] Because a coalition like this has ruled these media for many years. How they revealed the tapes of truth... [[Game in the O.R.]] ...not only public media, but also commercial media were treated as immeasurable power... [[Yes, sir.]] ...this very political group. And we want to stop with this monopoly. [[Applause]] The laws that we have proposed are laws that give public media, national media to all citizens of our Republic. [[It's a lie.]] And that's how it's supposed to be. [[Applause]] [[Don't tell the jokes in that podium, woman.]] And that's what these laws are supposed to do, which are talking about journalistic independence, which are talking about maintaining standards that talk about the high ethical level of these media. [[What standards...]] This is supposed to be a model for all media in Poland. This assumption is based on this law. [[You're lying.]] And they will not shout it out, they will not drown out the voices of those who so far claimed that they have a monopoly on information and on the assessment of reality in Poland. [[You're lying.]] [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: That is not true.]] This monopoly with the result of the elections last year, the result of the presidential election, the result of the parliamentary elections simply ended. [[Applause]] And that is the will of us right now to hand over public media, national media to those who are co-owners of the media... [[You're lying.]] ...and well equipped them with money, because the underfunding of these media just put them under the shoes of commerce, put them under the shoes of various influential environments in the country... [[Also foreign.]] ...which actually decided what content to be and what not to be in public media so far. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[They don't believe it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u102	There you go. And, ladies and gentlemen, in the correction procedure - I quote the rules - misunderstood or misunderstood by the statement made by the speaker, Mr Piotr Liroy-March. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u103	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that today television, today the media is very similar to those media that were in the times of the Polish People's Republic. Unfortunately, the same can be said. The point is, Mr President, to develop media that we will all be happy with will be satisfied with all future generations. [[Voice from the room: We'll work.]] And we're gonna convince the young people that national media is also their media, because they don't see it today. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Do you really think this bill will be for generations?]] [[What do we do, marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u104	I'm not taking that vote. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 442, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. There were 179 votes against and 235 abstentions. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft audiovisual contribution law. [[Party fee.]] In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. In this case, you have also come forward with questions. Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It's an audiovisual fee. Here I agree with the applicant - honest and widely paid. That's what I'm saying. But this, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be a propaganda tax, and this is what it looks like today. This cannot be a few billion zlotys drawn out of the pockets of Poles and intended for propaganda. And I don't agree with the records saying that we're fired because there's a call point, and we're paying each call point. Mr President, with all due respect, we can read. But I'll remind you of the situation, because we're just afraid of one thing: manipulation. Let me remind you that from this Seymary speaker, I had a guarantee that no pregnant woman would be fired under the Public Service Act. And what happened? [[Applause]] They've been fired. Today I want a guarantee to the landlords that they won't have to bear an additional charge in the electric bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will also demand such exemptions for those who have completed 60 years of work and have the right to a pension which does not exceed 50% per month... [[The joy, the bustle in the room, the bell.]] [[Voice from the room: 60 years of work?]] [[Voice from the room: Angela, where have you been?]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, let's not laugh. It was a slip of the tongue. It's about 60 years of life, because work is... [[Yes, I'm overspoken, Mr. Marshal.]] Of course. I'm asking you to be serious. I would like to ask Mrs Marta Golbik from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u107	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The introduction of such a profound reform should result from some far-reaching plan, from the desire to adapt to the changing mode of media consumption, to the Internet media, to all new media, from the awareness of the Internet explosion, which we do not see in this project. This project is good for 1995, not 2016. There really are a lot of changes to be made here. Imagine the rage of young people, people of my generation, 20s, 30s who don't have a TV, use only Internet media, and they will have to pay an audio-visual fee. [[I'm afraid so.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is to be changed and this project, this bill, with this audiovisual contribution for all, is completely incomprehensible to the young generation. That is why we will be in favour of rejecting the project at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u108	Please. Mr Wojciech Król, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u109	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is not an audiovisual contribution bill. This is the bill on the national fundraiser for the piss propaganda. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] This is the new propaganda-party tax. Public media coverage is falling and advertising revenues are falling. This tax is supposed to compensate for losses and give, among others. Jack Kursk, the author of the words: the dark people will buy it, a huge budget, over PLN 2 billion for propaganda. [[Applause]] Question to applicants: Why do you want to charge Polish families with propaganda tax? [[They were loaded.]] Why should this tax be paid by those who do not want to see public media? Why should they pay those who don't have a TV and those who can't afford a TV? [[They were paying for it.]] Why should they pay this tax to those who are unemployed, and why should this tax be paid by pensioners? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u110	Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u111	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In fact, we didn't find out yesterday why it's 15 zlotys, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] why e.g. not 5 zł, not 10 zł, not 12 zł, not 20 zł. [[You'll find out on the board.]] [[Exactly.]] We've asked each other many times. Of course, we are pleased to hear from the public that you have agreed to this hearing. On the other hand, why should citizens pay 15 PLN, especially those poor pensioners who have been fired so far? They shouldn't pay for propaganda, e.g. on a hat for individual groups in the Sejm, which we experienced last time. We're asking for an answer at last. [[Applause]] [[On the committees.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u112	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Club Law and Justice, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Go, Wojtek.]] [[Is that a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We have been talking about the audiovisual fee, about downloading the subscription in our country for many years. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I would like to recall from this speaker the words of Donald Tusk and Zbigniew Chlebowski, who were calling directly during press conferences... [[Bravo!]] ...to not pay danins such as a radio-television subscription, because as the Platform comes to power in 2007... [[Applause]] [[Don't lie to me.]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: That is not true!]] She's gonna cancel her subscription. We're doing something that the Platform hasn't been able to do in eight years. Poland can afford national media... [[Put another tax on it.]] ...and Poles will be proud of national media. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] That's why the audiovisual contribution... [[Stop embarrassing yourself. Sit down.]] ...is not because someone has a TV, or not because someone has a radio, just because Poles want public media, they want national media, ladies and gentlemen. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Please, they want...]] [[Media PiS.]] One more thing that needs to be clarified. We're reducing the fee that's being applied right now. [[Applause]] Radio-television subscription, which pays only 8% of the population, [[♪ The bell ♪]] is PLN 22.70. [[That's right, that's right.]] Working and preparing this law, we have come to the conclusion that we want to reduce this fee by 1/3, Member. [[Oh, great grace.]] We're down 1/3, but we're still open for discussion. Or is it gonna be 12 zlotys? [[Stop it.]] Let's talk in committee, talk in subcommittee. We lower the premium from PLN 22,70 to PLN 15 or even lower. [[Depends on which leg you get up.]] [[A reduction by a raise.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, stop being hypocritical and hypocritical. [[Don't murder yourself. Sit down.]] You haven't done anything in eight years. We're doing what you failed to do. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u114	Thank you. You're an MP, too? Mr Janusz Sanocki, non-attached Member. [[Not yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Go ahead, please.]] But silence, please. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Really. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] a country from the Platform, with a minimum of culture. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: Trains are leaving.]] I'm really asking you, I'm begging you, without this demagogue. It seems to me, I am convinced that this law - I have read it - organizes the situation in the media, provides their funding. [[Applause]] [[Move over there.]] I hope that, after providing this funding, advertising will disappear from at least a few television programs. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: They will disappear because we will not watch.]] No, really, guys, I'm begging you, it's Friday. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Please come down.]] I believe that it is necessary to refer the bill to the committee and support it. There are minor amendments that I see, e.g. ct [[♪ The bell ♪]] Arbour fees outside the neighborhoods... [[But I'm gonna need a PiS.]] ...for counters outside the city districts or beyond their borders. [[It's an art. 21 - layoffs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u116	I would point out that some of the questions asked were not questions, but were part of the discussion. Mr Marek Suski shall be notified on behalf of the applicants. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday we had a debate, first reading, on this project. I had the impression that not yesterday, not today, a part of the Members who asked questions, simply did not read this project. This project maintains all the benefits so far. [[No, it doesn't.]] This project keeps you relieved. [[It doesn't.]] And during the committee's work, we are open to various suggestions. [[Suski didn't read his own bill.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, this project restores normality... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...because to this day, there is a situation that honest citizens who paid kept public media for those who didn't pay contributions. [[Applause]] For honest citizens, this will be a significant reduction... [[92% of the population are dishonest citizens? Sir, but you've gone.]] ...and those who have avoided paying contributions so far will simply support those who have been honest so far. Please support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u118	Thank you. I am merely informing the honourable states, Mr Cymanski, in particular, that all the clubs have run out of questions. [[Yes, sir.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 443, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 205 Members voted against - 233, 4 abstentions. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred the bill to the Committee on Culture and Media. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law Provisions introducing the National Media Act and the Act on audiovisual contribution. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. You have come forward with questions. Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, the club of the Polish People's Party, will be the first to perform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Not all people have been fired in this project... [[They can't all be fired.]] ... because persons, pensioners who are over 60 years of age and are entitled to a pension which does not exceed 50% the monthly average wage in the national economy, are not included in this project and were previously exempted from subscription fees. If we are talking about the integrity of Poles, then each of us could present honesty by paying a subscription each year. Probably there wouldn't be this discussion, these questions and a lot of reservations if we had been consulted if we could do this project in a different way. That's why there's so much resistance today. Independent media, social media, public media is our common denominator. I'm asking you about this very important issue, about missionaryity. In the matter of mission, can the state accept the amendment of the Polish People's Party to open competition [[♪ The bell ♪]] both public and private media took part in this mission, so that professionals could decide about the missionary programmes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[TVN-y.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u120	Please. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u121	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Tell me and answer the question: Why are you introducing such a graphic and anti-national law? [[Ha, ha, ha!]] It's just a scandal. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say that the National Media Council is nothing more than a political media office, a censorship office, which we are dealing with right now. Jacek Kurski, as you know, took off the antenna a few weeks ago. Your bill is another consistent step in building an anti-democratic PiS state, Mr. President. [[Applause]] The Member is concerned that public media should be public media. Of course, we want public media, not writing media. The Act undermines the foundations of the pluralist secular state, as evidenced by art. Four of this bill. This law in the spirit of the deep Gomelka is aimed at freedom of speech. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Oh, dear!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u122	In that case, I will ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, the Law and Justice, to ask the question if the Member is present. Oh, there it is. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u123	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Questions to the government. Is it true that for many years the artistic environments, but also the current National Radio and Television Council, have demanded a comprehensive media law that will put this sector in order? Has most Poles long demanded that in public media the standards introduced by the Platform and PSL, i.e. such, would cease to apply, paraphrasing the call of one of the commercial stations, that full lying, full manipulation should apply 24 hours a day? [[Yes, sir.]] Will we finally be able, thanks to these billing projects, to make it possible that not only journalists and guests of one political option will be able to host on TV screens? [[Yes, sir.]] Will it finally be possible to ensure that the Christian vision of the world is not ridiculed... [[Yes, sir.]] [[Patriotism.]] ...was equally portrayed in public media? [[Applause]] Will it finally come to this, that journalists of national media [[♪ The bell ♪]] and public will notice the most important events in public life, such as: Interrogations by President Komorowski... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...and they won't announce things that are irrelevant from the point of view of public life? [[Like breaking a constitution.]] Will this bill finally allow public media to be organized? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u124	Please. Ms Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If half of what the Law and Justice are telling today were true, we would actually take a step towards national media. [[Now you can do it.]] But for now, we want to give the media to the nation. The people, Mr. Marshal, are all citizens, not just citizens of the Law and Justice. [[Don't share the Poles.]] So far, you've given the media to Jack Kursk, your party friend, [[Applause]] And he fired over 150 people from the public media, as you know, a few weeks ago. [[Three people have been fired.]] [[Don't lie to me.]] And here, here you go, another piece of evidence for lying. Minister Czabański also left yesterday and said: three people. So where are the 150 journalists who've worked on public media airs so far? Where'd they go? [[Everyone's allowed to quit their jobs. We live in a free, democratic country.]] You're cynical. You don't give media to the nation. You only give media to your own party. [[The president.]] We will not pay tribute to the political party. [[Poor things.]] [[The bailiff's coming.]] And I don't blame the citizens for rebelling against it today because you cheated on the campaign. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're cheating. Now and apparently you're going to do it again. [[You're gonna cheat.]] The audiovisual contribution is your next scam, because you promised the pensioners and the rencissists that you would relieve them and not put them down. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u126	But, ladies and gentlemen, the Member has not asked the question again... [[She did.]] ...and I don't know how to treat it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I did. You should have listened to me.]] [[What do we do, marshal?]] Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I'll just refer to the audiovisual fee. Just now one of the PiS Members said that according to data 8% the public is currently paying a subscription, i.e. that the state, wanting to introduce a compulsory compulsory subscription, an audiovisual fee, is hitting your own electorate, because I understand that most of your electorate does not pay the subscription at the moment, because it disagrees deeply with it. [[Applause]] [[Slow everyone down.]] If we did a referendum, it would turn out that no one wants to pay a subscription. [[Voice from the room: So do we.]] [[On TV like this...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Does the Member pay?]] So if, ladies and gentlemen, if the national media are to be kept with public money, it may be better to create something like the Czech Republic, i.e. to create a advertising fund and let commercial television consist of this fund, and that is why public or national television will be paid for. [[How about something like Britain or Germany?]] And if you can't swallow it so that there's no audiovisual charge and you're going to stand for it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause that's what happens a lot on your side, so think about whether or not you just exempt this fee as a personal income tax relief. Then it will be to swallow for society. [[I don't think everyone pays income tax.]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Think about your electorate, who doesn't pay income tax, how to please him. [[Farmers pay income tax.]] On the other hand, I personally believe that the minimum requirement to bend over this audiovisual fee is the introduction of a tax relief for personal income tax... [[Voice from the room: Time has passed.]] [[Mr. Marshal, time.]] [[Time's up!]] ...the taxes that will allow citizens to count down PLN 180 on these national media. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u128	Thank you, sir. At the moment, he asked for a vote... [[Czabanski.]] ...Mr Krzysztof Czabański, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u129	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This bill saves public media... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...against the fact that you wanted to murder them. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] You wanted to give them a funeral. [[Privatize.]] You've consistently wanted this over the last few years... [[In PZPR.]] ...and I'll go after these media divide: maybe under the garbage can, maybe in the cemetery, I don't know. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, yeah, yeah.]] You have your places for things like this, as we know. [[In PZPR.]] Your political idol, your political god, your leader, Donald Tusk... [[Who's yours? Lenin?]] [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, silence Niesiołowski.]] ...said in 2007: Public media The best thing to do is to eliminate it, and if it doesn't work out, you have to weaken it to the fullest extent, and that's what you've done, you've done all these years... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[That's not true.]] ...with premeditated and cynicism. Now you're saying you want to save them. Fortunately, they survived in spite of your politics, and we're saving them. [[Applause]] [[Now they're gonna fall.]] We'll bring them back to our citizens. [[Who is this guy anyway?]] We'll bring it back to our citizens whether you want it or not. [[That's what happened in PZPR! Are you deaf?]] We'll do it. We're gonna do this because we want to... [[Voice from the room: Tablets take.]] ...national media defended the Polish state. [[Applause]] And no screaming's gonna get in the way. [[Are you deaf?]] At the same time, we are open to amendments to the bill. [[That's a good change.]] [[We'll check.]] There will be a public hearing, there will be a broad consultation. They were already there. Please... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: With whom?]] Mr President, we have also spoken to the representatives of your group, and we have talked, more importantly, with representatives of non-governmental organisations. You are now acting in their name and saying, "No one has listened to them, and you have made a pact with them, which you have broken." [[Don't wave a finger at us!]] It's a public media pact you signed a few years ago. Citizens of culture and citizens of science... [[Don't wave your hand.]] ... They signed a pact with Donald Tusk. [[Yes, sir.]] And what happened to the public media pact? He was broken by you. He wasn't kept, like... [[Don't wave a finger at us!]] ...many other promises. That's the truth... [[Yes, sir.]] ...about your role in public media. [[Applause]] We're open to corrections, [[Joy in the Chamber]] to guarantee the representation of different environments... [[We'll check.]] ...to take into account different interests, because public media, contrary to what you're saying, aren't the media that's supposed to do propaganda. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] They're supposed to be patrons... No screaming will help you, because you're the propaganda specialists, but her strength is over. [[Applause]] [[Get your hand out of your pocket!]] It's stopped working. Your PR has stopped working. You can't base your policy on PR... [[Mr. Marshal, is there a level here?]] ...what you are the best proof of. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You can't. [[Applause]] National media are primarily to help Polish culture, Polish creators... [[But which one? Yours?]] [[Hurry up?]] ...so that Polish culture can develop in any area. Always these public media they played such a role, they should act, they play such a role in civilized countries. [[Hand out of your pocket!]] Why shouldn't they be here? [[The voice from the room: Because PiS is in charge.]] And we pay the premium not as it is in the previous recipe, that is, for having a TV and radio. [[Only for not having one!]] The contribution we pay for the fact that we as citizens can benefit from the good products of these media, from what they produce. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And it's better... [[Pereira, for example. Bravo!]] [[Stop lying to me!]] But screaming can't change reality. It just seems to you that screams change anything. [[Every landlord 15 zlotys!]] If you just want to scream, congratulations on the idea of life and politics. [[That's what happened in PZPR!]] National media will be the largest in Poland, as in the past, a patron of culture and creative environments. That's their main role. [[Applause]] Politics is the epidermis, such a thin layer, and that's why we're open to such conversations... [[Get your hand out of your pocket!]] ...which Mr Liroy-March proposed. [[Don't talk to us with your hand in your pocket!]] I'm not saying, I've got my hands here, you're welcome. [[Joy in the Chamber]] There you go, Member. Madame, I really... [[Stop it, stop it.]] And now I am. I want to reassure everyone about the contribution. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Niesiołowski, calm down.]] All those in social difficulties, regardless of their age, whether they work or raise their children at home, if they are retired and raise their grandchildren, all of them will be exempt from the payment of the audiovisual contribution, [[Applause]] Because we can afford to help people who are worse. But access to this content... [[You should have put it on the project.]] ...should have, to a true culture, to real national content. And that's what we provide for this bill. [[Lies!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u130	Thank you. Mr Paweł Kukiz made a formal request. Please. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: So do I.]] Please? [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Formal application.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u131	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you have repeatedly pointed out to me - I understand that these words were largely addressed to me - claiming that there were some conversations, etc. Yes, there have been talks. We really wanted television to be public, not to be the same as it was in the Platform's days, not to be a propaganda tool for the partyocracy. [[Applause]] Of course. But it all ended with declarations. Minister, I can show you the texts I've been texting you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] I've asked for meetings many times. Miss Lichocka, I've asked to see you. We asked for a discussion, we asked for talks, we asked for the creators to participate in these talks. You didn't pay attention. Not much, remember what your TV has done now, because it's in your hands, what a powerful hat for handshaking! [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] Guys, the Bolsheviks didn't do that! Do you understand? You told people there were agreements. I swear from this place, there were no deals. What have you done? What right? We will approach these talks again, because the Republic, the Polish state is above us and my emotions have no meaning. [[Applause]] But if you fail again... [[Voice from the room: So what?]] I'm not gonna say another word because Mr. Ziobro has the D.A.'s office. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Collect experience, Paul.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u132	The formal proposal is made by Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u133	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I kindly request a break and a convent of the Senior Convention, because Minister Czabański, speaking here in defence of culture, what he should do, because he is a Deputy Minister of Culture, behaved, I would say, as if he were far from any cultural standards. That's once. [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]] [[Bravo.]] I'd also like the Minister to learn that he's not waving a finger... [[He was chasing the pot to the kettle.]] ...on the MPs and that he doesn't hold his hand in his pocket, because it's not a cultural proof either. That's two. [[Who's talking?]] And three finally. However, during this Senior Convention, which will be attended by Minister Czabański, I would like him to find out what a pact for culture was signed by the government and the Civic Platform, and Prime Minister Tusk and like this pact, and when it was implemented. This signed pact... [[Look at the Minister in the Seym.]] ...was completed at the end of 2014, a year earlier than we committed. [[Look at the way he's standing.]] At the moment, however, the same environment, cultural citizens and science citizens have asked for talks with all clubs. As far as I know, the only club, Law and Justice, hasn't joined these talks. The Platform Club joined, talked and we still know what opinions are, and the demands of this environment. And I promise, Minister, that you will not destroy Polish culture... [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]] ...just like you didn't have time to destroy the Polish Radio. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: A working voice!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u134	I would like to inform the High House that Mr Paweł Kukiz's speeches cannot be considered a formal application because it was not made in the form of formal applications. Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasińska, yes, in the first part she submitted a formal request for a break - here consent, but in the case of conjunction: and the convening of the Senior Convention... [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: No.]] ...that's what the Marshal of the Sejm decides. [[Joy in the Chamber]] About convening the Senior Convention. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Courtesy of the marshal appeal.]] I'm sorry, I don't see why. On the other hand, the proposal against, with the vote against, because this is the right, is made by Mr Małecki. [[Voice from the room: Oh, Vaseline.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I object to Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasinska's speech. [[I'm sorry, ma'am.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u136	Sorry, sir, to the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u137	In the light of the request [[Joy in the Chamber]] tabled by Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasinska. And I justify it. I do not recall such speeches by Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasinska and representatives of the Civic Platform, when in previous terms the media were brutally used to promote specific people... [[God, what's he saying?]] ...and the journalists who tried to expose the scandals created by the Platform and PSL coalition were kicked out of work. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I do not recall the reaction of Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasinska and the Members of the Platform when public television bought and broadcast a shameful German film defaming... [[Yes, sir.]] ...Soldiers of the Home Army. [[Applause]] When public television paid public money for a film in which the Germans killed our heroes from the National Army for the second time, Mrs. Śledzińska-Katarasińska did not stand here, in this place, and did not protest. I am not surprised at your outrage today, for with your scandals you can wallpaper the Sejm. [[Yes, sir.]] [[It's $4 billion worth of money.]] And when you are aware that on public television, on public radio you will not be sat down by helpful journalists hoping for an award from you, only those who are well prepared and asking what really happened, who is responsible for the data [[♪ The bell ♪]] The scandals, then actually the chills can be on your back. [[Stop scaring me.]] You know more about this than we do. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mrs. Sledzinska-Catarasinska's motion... [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: Club!]] ...can't be seen as a matter of discussion, but as an attempt to divert attention from what the Platform was doing in the coalition with PSL in previous terms. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u138	At the moment, I will allow the speaker on behalf of the government - although there is no government position - Minister Krzysztof Czabanski. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: What do you mean there is no government position?]] [[He's on the stand again?]] Ladies and gentlemen, a representative of the government has the right to speak at any time and I cannot limit speeches. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] representatives of the government. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[It's really harmful to admit it.]] Your marshal couldn't do that when she was running the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u139	I'm not surprised, Mr. Marshal... May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u140	Sorry, I was talking to your marshal. There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: Mr. Marshal! I'm not surprised that you're protesting because you're doing propaganda all the time, and to say the least, you're missing the truth, and you're afraid someone's gonna point it out to you. [[Voice from the hall: In Polish it is emphasized differently.]] You have entered into an agreement with the citizens of culture and science, Mrs Katarasińska. [[Spleidian.]] You have made an agreement that their public media reform project will be carried out, their bill will be carried out by your government. You broke that deal, but you told them you were gonna do your own project. And where is this project? [[In the Seym.]] He's been gone all these years. He wasn't there. [[At Marshal Kuchcinski's!]] When you had a government, you didn't have a project. [[You rejected him.]] You didn't have a project. When it comes to waving a finger, I humbly accept every attention, but I give priority to it. I don't have, I don't want to be here, I don't have the right to be a leader in this case. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Mrs. Szydlo is.]] I am also pleased to note Mr Kukiz's voice as an introduction to the talks and to a serious debate on this draft law. And one more thing that's important is to make it clear. Retired persons who have had exemptions in the existing legislation will retain these exemptions from the payment of the audiovisual contribution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 444, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 177, against - 232, with 24 Members holding back. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 463). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article Article 143 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 and Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's coming forward, so I'm not closing the discussion. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 463 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 403 against - 6, 11 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm ordering a four-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 25 hours 11 min 35]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war period and some other laws (print No 428). I ask Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota to present the justification for the bill. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u141	Mr. Marshal, could I ask you to ask those in the O.R. to move the calls out of the O.R.?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u142	I'm asking you to move the calls out of the O.R. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u143	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Group of Members of the Civic Platform, I have the honour to present a bill aimed in fact at aligning the powers of military substitute soldiers employed in coal mines, quarrying, uranium ore plants and construction battalions with the powers which so far enjoy in this basic support system for combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression. The purpose of the Act is to include citizens thus repressed for political, but also religious, racial reasons, in this basic system, and thus by repealing the Special Act, their introduction into the circle of those persons entitled to the basic regime. It's the environment that's been doing this for a long time. Their powers so far regulates a separate law, one may say, a special act of 2 September 1994 on the provision of money and the powers of soldiers of substitute military service forced to employ in coal mines, quarryings and uranium ore plants. Some 26 thousand people live in Poland at the moment, as is estimated. The eligible group also includes about 19 thousand. Widows like that. To date, these people have benefited from two basic rights. Firstly, from a cash benefit, the maximum amount of which is equal to the Combatan supplement, but only the maximum amount, i.e. the amount which is payable to persons who have worked for a maximum of 12 months, because this benefit is calculated as if for each month, no more than in 20 months. Secondly, this group is also entitled to a lump sum of energy, as is the case with combatants and persons being repressed at the same height. However, there are a number of powers that so far have not been given to such repressed people. This is, among other things. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, etc. Nor do they have such powers so far. However, if among these persons are persons who, as a result of accidents or diseases caused precisely by this forced work in mines or construction crews, have suffered health damage, they are entitled to benefits under the Act of May 1974 on the supply of war and military invalids and their families. In this respect, therefore, they have similar basic powers as combatants and repressed persons. Widows or widows of veterans have the power to supply, among others. in free medications, and such permissions do not have widows of miners soldiers. So there is a whole series of specific powers that will be given to these people after Parliament has adopted the bill that we have proposed. But in my opinion, it's not even those equalized powers that are the most important here. Probably the most important thing is to level the status so that these people are respected so that their harm is treated in the same way as the situation of the veterans and the oppressed, whose present honorable and material powers are regulated in nature by the Act of 24 January 1991. So the idea is not to treat these people differently or to regulate their situation with this separate special law, but to treat them in the same way. We will achieve this when it comes to the legislative side, repealing this speciality. That is why transitional provisions are so important. The point is that by repealing this separate law, it does not really make the situation of these people worse. That is why transitional provisions are so important, so it is necessary to examine very carefully the consequences of repealing this separate law, because some issues have so far been regulated differently. Hence, among others. so expanded art. The 7th bill we've proposed. I am convinced that after so many years, which have passed since that bleak time, when these people have suffered such brutal repression, it is the right time, especially given the age of these people, to make, first of all, their health situation, but also often difficult material situation, this equalization of powers. That is why we are asking that the bill proposed by us be directed to further work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u144	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and postwar repression, print No. 428. The project assumes the scope of the law on combatants of all previous addressees of the law on miners' soldiers. Here we are talking about people who were forced to work as a replacement military service in 1949 and 1959 in coal mines, quarrying and uranium ore extraction and enrichment plants and in construction battalions as well as persons from the collection in 1949 incorporated into the over-continent brigades of the Polish Service. The amended law is intended to align miners' soldiers' rights with the beneficiaries of the Veterans Act. For special treatment of people who were stolen from the best years of their lives, Law and Justice requested in the Sejm the sixth term (2008) under the coalition of the Civic Platform and the PSL. The club then submitted a draft law on the powers of the combatants, participants in the civil war of 1914-1945, opposition activists against the communist dictatorship and some victims of repression of totalitarian systems, print No. 818. The project was designed, among others. Inclusion of miners' soldiers, construction battalions soldiers and brigades of over-continent Polish Service in the catalogue of persons covered by the Act, so that they are equalized in rights with other victims of political repression. However, the project was not adopted. The high costs of such a solution have been highlighted. The equalisation of benefits for these people to the level of benefits granted to those who were repressed at the time meant an expenditure of 33.2 million, today it is a cost of PLN 30 million provided by the applicants - the Civic Platform. Despite many moits from this community of miners soldiers, the Civic Platform has done nothing to solve this issue and contribute to a sense of social justice for 8 years (96 months) of government. Only today, after the loss of power, the Civic Platform submits a project to include miners' soldiers in the law on combatants. Such conduct is a slap for those experienced by human life. It can even be said that this is political hypocrisy. It seems that this project is designed to calm the conscience of the applicants. Not long ago, members of the PO did not care that people so experienced by life had to ask the State for equal treatment. There was no money to treat those who today are of senior age and who are getting closer and closer to going to a better world. However, we all agree that state aid for this group should be increased in order to facilitate the everyday existence of these people, which is very difficult because they are already elderly. The project regulates the case of miners' soldiers, who deserve respect for their compatriots and care and care from state institutions. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of directing the project to work in Parliamentary committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u146	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u147	Thank you very much, Marshal. I am pleased that the parliamentary club of the governing party has decided to support this bill. I would also like to say that two years ago or a year and a half ago, the senators of the previous term prepared a draft law regulating these issues, but the project required a lot of legislative procedures, checking the status, determining who and what benefits should be granted. And we didn't make it, we just didn't make it in the world with the legislative process, and the term of office ended. I'm talking about a specific example, a specific group, specific things. I would also like to remind you that the years 2008 and 2014 were the years of the world's largest in the 21st century and since the 1930s. The 20th century of the economic crisis. We've been saving up and looking at every dollar we've spent from the budget, under an over-indebted procedure. So don't tell me it was an aversion, especially since we're back on the subject today. We also know that equalisation in the rights of the basic service soldiers who were forced to work in mines, quarrying, uranium ore mining and construction battalions must take place as soon as possible. And that's why our bill is here. Today, the situation is as follows. The miner is forced to work in the mine, if he has worked in it for not less than 20 months, has rights similar to the combatants resulting from the specialty directed to this group, and adopted by the Sejm in 1994 - similar, because it is 208 zł of the smith's allowance and a flat-rate energy of 166 zł - but these soldiers no longer have compensatory allowance, are not covered by the communication allowance, do not have priority access to social care measures and social assistance homes, they are not included in the group which has the possibility to apply for health benefits outside the order. We want these powers to be the same for the combatants and the soldiers of the forced miners involved in these very difficult conditions. In addition, I must say that the miners who are disabled and the disability was caused by the repression of their work under such severe conditions have all the same powers that disabled people have about the status of war invalids. This is the possibility of making use of the coincident two benefits, pensions and pensions, depending on the beneficiary, which of them reaches 50% , which is 100% heights. In addition to all the things I've already mentioned, there are still free medications. These witnessing miners have invalids, but they do not have the same widow benefits after them. They have no right to access free medicines, no communication discounts, no compensatory and flat-rate allowances. We really want a group of 19,000. the widows of the miners were also endowed with such privileges. The cost of the act as a whole is about PLN 30 million and we are convinced that the legislative work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy will have the effect that we are in fact asking for, i.e. the annulment, the abolition of the 1994 law on miners' soldiers and the inclusion in its entirety of the law on combatants and persons oppressed by this social group 26 thousand. living miners and 19,000. Widows after them. I warmly ask the High House to refer this draft law to further work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor now. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I would like to state that the adoption of this law is a mere necessity and historical justice, and there is nothing here to debate arguments for or against, because there are no arguments against it. It is only regrettable that only in 2016 will we regulate this project. It is a pity that such an important and elevated idea, such as equalizing justice to people who have devoted their lives and health to their homeland, must be the subject of political quarrels between the Law and Justice and the Civic Platform. If this is what the PiS Member says, it is all the more regrettable that the Civic Platform did not decide in 2008 to introduce this law directly, especially since the costs, whether it is 35 million then or 30 million now, are symbolic costs from a financial point of view, but are not symbolic from the point of view of those affected by the law. Ladies and gentlemen, including the widows of the dead miners, that will be 45,000. persons. 45,000. There must have been more people, some of them couldn't make it to 2016, they didn't make it, and eventually they're gonna get justice. There is nothing to discuss here when it comes to legal nature, whether you deserve something or not, obviously, we will no longer develop it here, but what is important is that only, once again, in 2016, this problem will see the light of day and be resolved. There is no reason, as I say, for why this problem was not dealt with in the 1990s, why this problem was not dealt with in 2005, 2008. If the Senate had good intentions, why it was not until 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, move on. Further groups should be considered, which should also look forward to such honor, including financial, related privileges. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the cursed soldiers should be considered, the problem of all people who suffered physically and morally as a result of past historical fates of Poland should be considered. As soon as possible, it is necessary to adopt this law and implement the rules that will bring about normal justice and will cause, at least in part, so late, but we will restore to these people the ordinary human dignity, because the Polish state has a moral duty to care for its citizens, who have put their heads behind them and risked their health and their lives for them. Therefore, I suggest that we no longer engage in political discussion, moral discussion, pushing through the implementation of this law, discussions on this subject, who was the first, who was the last, who did not do something. It's okay, everyone in front of themselves, take a conscience check and hit their chests, why they haven't done it so far. We as the Kukiz Members' Club15 strongly call for this to be done as soon as possible, without unnecessary procedures, without unnecessary discussion. If we can adopt other laws in 24 hours, in 48 hours, then let's not delay the work in the parliamentary committees either, because there will simply be no one to return honor and justice soon, as we will debate the validity of this law. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I believe, on behalf of the club, that the position of all clubs should be such that we should adopt this good bill as soon as possible, respecting our heroes, restoring them to a fundamental sense of dignity and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u150	Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u151	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It would be difficult to disagree with the changes made by the parliamentary bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war periods and some other laws. The law really gives full rights to combatants who should have received them long ago. It regulates access to the services of Kombatants to those who became victims of war repression and post-war period in the Polish People's Republic through forced labor in the mining industry. The amendments to the Act include soldiers of the basic military service, active in the years 1949-1959, aimed for political reasons at forced labor in coal mines, quarrying and uranium mining and enrichment plants, soldiers from the collection of 1949, incorporated into the Polish Brigade, aimed at forced labor in mines and quarrying, and soldiers grouped in construction battalions, working forcefully in the years 1949-1959. The changes made also include widows of these soldiers. The Act covers about 26 thousand. living to this day persons, operating in the established 5 September 1949 and subject to many transformations of the replacement military service and battalions of the work of the General Organisation of Poland, finally dissolved by order of 26 September 1959. On October 15, 1949, the first battalions of work consisting of soldiers from the 1927-1928 year old army were directed to work in mines. Battalions were to be part of a replacement military service which was part of the basic military service, introduced by the General Military Duty Act. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 19 of this law was created to clarify the features of this service consisting in the implementation of military training and, more importantly, from the point of the Act discussed today, to work for defence purposes of the state and national economic plans. And it was this record that created the possibility of grouping and really several years of exclusion of those recruiters who were considered by the authorities of the Polish People's Republic to be an element that was not fit to join military personnel for political reasons such as class ones. A special selection system based on three criteria, social, political and moral, has been set up for the purposes of strict qualifications. The evaluation and final decision belonged to the Security Office, the Military Information Authorities and the Party. The sum of guidelines of various types of instruction and orders concerning the conscription allowed for effective elimination by embodiment of soldiers' battalions and working in mining, among others. Scouts of Grey Privates, AK soldiers, National Armed Forces, Polish Armed Forces in the West and guard companies in the United States Army in occupied Germany, as well as Pomeranians incorporated into the Wehrmacht, Silesians, Kaszubs and Warmiaks as well as all other foreign repatriates and displaced persons. It is worth to hear a fragment of the order from 1951 from the Polish Marshal Konstanty Rokossowski introducing precise rules for embodiment to the battalions of work and showing us what criteria of exclusion were applied at the time. The following conscriptions were assigned to the replacement service, as ordered by Rokossowski: from the environment of rural rich people, expropriated landowners, merchants, owners of industrial enterprises employing hired forces, owners of major urban property and sons of former officers of the direct pre-September regime oppression apparatus, who according to public security authorities are hostile to the present reality, whose parents and siblings or wives were punished by the authorities of the People's Poland for political and conscription crimes, who maintain contact with members of the immediate family remaining in capitalist countries and hostile towards the People's Poland. We have heard a lot about the nature of work in the mines of this period. Suffice it to say that these young people worked and lived in primitive, extremely dangerous conditions. They worked for several hours without rest, on Sundays, holidays, deprived of elementary mining training. They were formally employed under conditions generally applicable in the mining industry, but were not subject to collective labour agreements. Their income was deducted from the cost of living, uniforming and medical care. Of course, in these conditions of work and rest, accidents at work were inevitable. In 1953, 48 deaths occurred. The Institute of National Remembrance defined forced labor in uranium ore mines and [[♪ The bell ♪]] As part of a battalion of work as one of the crimes of Stalinism...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u152	Thank you very much, sir. You've run out of time for your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u153	...in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u154	You're welcome. Now Mr Paweł Bejda, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the proposed law is to extend the scope of the subjective law of 24 January 1991 on combatants and certain persons who are victims of war and post-war repression, hereinafter referred to as the Veterans Act, on soldiers of the military military service forced to employ in 1949 for political reasons in coal mines, quarryings or uranium ore plants and soldiers from the collection of 1949 incorporated for political reasons into the Polish brigades and forced employment in coal or quarry mines, whose powers so far are governed by the Law of 2 September 1994 on the provision of funds and powers of military substitute soldiers forced to employ in coal mines, quarry, uranium ore plants and construction battalions. By adopting this law in 1994, it was stated in the preamble that the forced employment of military replacement soldiers in coal mines, quarrying, uranium ore mining and construction battalions constituted a particular kind of repression for political reasons. Despite this, the current legislation treats this group of people being repressed in a less favourable way than other victims of post-war repression, whose powers are defined by the law on combatants. The project assumes the scope of the law on combatants of all previous addressees of the law on miners' soldiers. Each of the groups of miners' soldiers mentioned in the draft was subjected to a particular type of political repression and, as such, should be subject to equal legal regulations. As of the date of entry into force of the new regulations, miners' soldiers will be considered eligible under the Veterans' Act. Persons entitled under the Veterans Act have the right to a number of benefits provided for in the provisions of the Veterans Act. These are among others.: rights defined as labour rights, pension rights, early retirement rights, mattress allowance or mattress allowance, priority to environmental social care and in social care homes, public transport relief, compensation allowance, flat-rate energy allowance and exceptional pension, as well as ad hoc or periodic monetary assistance. I would like to say that the Polish People's Party is in favour of this bill being directed to further proceding and social justice. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u156	Thank you very much. Four Members joined the questions. Five, I'm sorry. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski from the Civic Platform is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u157	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Many of these repressed people are still alive. A large group of these people live in Silesia, where I come from. It is time for us to complete this bill so that these normal privileges that the combatants have today - I would not even call it privileges, but our responsibility and thanksgiving - these repressed miners can receive. That's why I wanted to ask you a question, Minister. In this draft law, which submitted the Civic Platform Club, a certain number of persons is clearly indicated. Can we clearly determine what the actual number is? After all, various people were also employed in these mines. Can we precisely define these criteria, or do we know the exact list of people? True, some of them have already benefited from a certain witness. Has this number of people been precisely defined here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u158	Thank you very much. Now you ask Rafał Wójcikowski from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question also concerns the number of people, but in a different context. I wanted to ask... When this law came into force in 2008, thirty-six million zlotys were said to enter the Sejm. Now we are talking about 30 million PLN and 45 thousand PLN. People, plus widows. How many people were there then? What is the difference between 2008 and 2016 as regards the number of persons covered by the Act? Otherwise, how many people didn't? That's my question. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u160	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mr Rajmund Miller from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u161	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a bill that was long awaited. It is a law that has been written for people and will serve those who today are of advanced age. It's a bill for people who have been treated inhumanly, both in mines and in battalions of work. These are people who have serious health problems not only because of their age but also because of their past and treatment at a time when they were forced into being. My question to the Member of the applicant: Will this law increase - and how - access to health services for these people? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u162	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In connection with the first reading of the Parliamentary draft law on amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression, I have a question about the possibility of including in the amendment of persons who were not 16 years of age between 1 September 1939 and 8 May 1945 and who for at least 6 months were forced to work for the Third Reich or the countries of the Soviet Union. It is this group of minor victims of war that does not receive any assistance from the State, and because of age and health status and experience of repression, it should be quickly covered by material aid, if possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u164	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Bogdan Rozonek of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it is necessary to touch every problem concerning this torture, let's say, the slave labour of young boys who were incorporated into the service of Poland. They were 14-, 15-year-old people who were ripped out of the house by a warrant, one decision. Such cases are also in Podkarpacie, in Bieszczady, in every county. To this day they live - already older - people who have been treated in this way have been incorporated into the Polish Servant. Treated as juniors, they worked in mines in Wałbrzych, Wrocław, and worked in Oświęcim. We have a lot of evidence for that, such as, "I'm inserting you - here's a name - for such and such a youth service. These people are without compensation for this miserable job. So my question is this: Does this law cover the 3,000? living according to my knowledge until today members of the Polish Service? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u166	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u167	Not only the miners, but also the people who worked as junipers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u168	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Would the Minister like to speak? Please, undersecretary of state in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to briefly present the position of the Council of Ministers vis-à-vis the parliamentary bill. I would not like to repeat the comments that emerged during the discussion. I would like to say that we are assessing the direction proposed in the parliamentary bill as appropriate. It is also a project that implements the demands that were often formulated earlier by the environments of combatants, oppressed people, environments directly interested in this project. The entry into force of the Act will result in forced soldiers, widows of forced soldiers, a wide range of powers which they have not so far exercised, such powers as are provided for in the Act on Combatants and Repressed Persons. So that the conclusion of our position is that, paying attention to the expectations of the soldiers forced to hire, who have experienced repression for political reasons, we consider the draft law to be the right course of action. We consider it advisable to work on this project and request that this project be directed towards further parliamentary work. At the same time, I would also like to answer the questions that have been addressed to me. The first question concerned the number of people concerned. It can be said that this project, which was completed last year, the Senate bill, which is the basis for the project that we are discussing today, assumed that the number of people who would have covered this new regulation would be about 26 thousand. soldiers forced to hire and about 19 thousand. soldiers' widows. We have verified this data on the basis of information obtained in the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. We can now say that by the end of 2015, people, forced-hired soldiers, who would benefit from the benefits of this bill, would be approx. 24 600, plus about 21 000. Widows of these people. In short, the proportions between the number of soldiers forced to employ and the number of widows are changing. More and more widows would benefit from these powers, while the number of forced soldiers employed in mines is decreasing. This is also actually the answer to the next question, because if we compare the number of people who would be entitled to these benefits at the end of last year, I apologize, at the end of 2014, with the number I presented, it follows that the death rate among this group is around 1.5 thousand. persons per year. So if we wanted to reach out again - and one of the questions concerned this issue - by 2008, then the number of people who would then benefit from the provisions of the law that was then applied would be significantly higher. One of the questions was about minors who were victims of war. I would like to say that, in general, the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons is currently working on proposals for systemic solutions. We are here today discussing proposals for only one group of victims after World War II, while certainly minors, minor victims of war also expect some proposals for solutions. I would like to say that, as part of the system work, a comprehensive solution on the scope of the subjective law on combatants and those repressed by this type of proposal will be formulated. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u170	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak? Please, Mr Sławomir Piechota.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I welcome the general support of this initiative because it is good for it. However, in view of the opinions presented here, I would like to remind you, especially those who have not previously participated in the debates on these issues, that these are not matters that arise today. These matters were actually regulated in free Poland from the beginning, verified, corrected. I think that the first fundamental reflection, which often comes back during these debates and analyses, is that everyone who lived during the war suffered and everyone was hurt. But can we, in this regard, each, especially identically, provide some special powers today? Well, there were those who fought with guns in their hands, those who hid the wanted under threat of death penalty, those who were locked up in death camps, prisons, executions, and those who led a civilian life, with all this threat, fear, poverty. In this regard, can we today give equal and high powers to all those who lived then? We just can't afford it. It sounds trivial, it is always criticized by such a look, but in different situations we have to make a difficult decision about a certain priority, of a certain difference. At a time when I had the privilege of chairing the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, there was a discussion every year on the committee about the situation of people who had just fought arms or were repressed in various ways. And we learned from these discussions, looking for the best way to help people, especially those who were most deserved and who suffered the most. We're standing in front of this dilemma all the time. The Minister mentioned the minor victims of the war. We have discussed this many times, how difficult it is to define this circle of entitled ones and what to give them today. And here again and again we often go into such a trap - and I think that the Minister is well aware too - that it is not so much about one more monetary benefit today, because when we analyze the situation of these people, very often there is a thread that they really need good health care today. These are people of advanced age, people who are ill. This is what Mr Rajmund Miller asked how we can help these people. And it seems that today it is increasingly dependent on good practice and not on some additional financial provision. Because these benefits, the basic ones, e.g. the right to free medicines, are already generally regulated today. However, the rules give priority to accessing health services in practice. There are places where it is respected and the person who has this status gets these benefits quickly, but there are places where these people get it with difficulty. They don't want to impose, they don't want to push their elbows around. It's not the style of these people. So they're in trouble waiting in long queues. And it must be made clear, especially in contracts concluded by the National Health Fund, that the institution that receives funds from the NFZ has obligations arising directly from the Act that it must respect the priority of these people. And that's probably the most important element today. In many voivodships it is well done by representatives of marshals for veterans and oppressed people. They're creating these good practices. There are hospitals friendly to combatants or clinics in which it is respected and taken into account. On the other hand, we must be aware that there is a difference in this situation, there was a difference in the situation of these people, and that is why we cannot say that it is today that we are starting to do this. After all, the law, which granted the basic benefits to this group of persons, was adopted in 1994. I would like to remind you that this is the Act of 4 September 1994 on the provision of money and the powers of military substitute soldiers employed in coal mines, quarrying, uranium plants and construction battalions. As for these financial benefits, it also regulates this, as it does today. Today we're talking about equalization, about making these people feel that they're not as bad as they are, that they're on the same level. But that equalization also took time. Let us remind you that during the work on the senate project which entered the Sejm last July, which was just before the end of the term, which was in fact intended, many different comments indicating that it was defective were submitted by the Social Insurance Institution, the Office for Veterans. Thus, the initiative, however, was accompanied by opinions indicating that there is no uniform opinion among the organisations of the veterans and the oppressed about such a complete alignment between the various groups of the oppressed. It was pointed out that the situation was different for those who fought with guns in hand, in guerrilla troops, in the Warsaw Uprising, for those who were held in concentration camps who were detained, beaten, tortured, tortured, or those who engaged in activities threatened with death penalty, e.g. It's the miners' soldiers. Today we have no doubt that it is also a circle of people who were consciously oppressed. These repressions were very severe. And we also believe that there is a time to make such an equalization. Mr Andzel reminded us that the PiS club had previously made such proposals. All I can ask is why you didn't perform in this term. You had a ready man. That's all you set up so quickly, you did, you passed, you passed. We'd have forgotten that a long time ago. [[Applause]] It's been six months. We, carefully analyzing that Senate project, these earlier discussions, propose what we propose. And in my opinion, there's nothing to race, no one who has more credit. Let's just do something good together that will serve people well. But, of course, in working on this project, if you think that you have more opportunities, you can give more powers, you can give more benefits. Everything's ahead of you. Knowing your generosity, I would be surprised, especially after Mr Andzel's speech, if this amount had not been significantly increased. There's definitely more to be done. We feel that it's not so easy that it's not so easy. Often, once again, the problem is not in those financial benefits given to everyone, but often in order to be able to respond to individual needs of a particular person, e.g. so that he has no problem accessing a 24-hour fixed-term care facility if his health and family situation is such that there is no possibility of staying in his home. So, for such facilities of the highest standard to be as much as possible. Let us all make it possible for these people to be able to function. As the Minister mentioned, these figures come from, in particular, the sources of the Veterans' Office, but they are not precise, they are rather refined, but estimated. And it's probably just the start of this bill that will allow for a more accurate count of people who are still alive, because of their age, and what they've been through, of course, the circle of these people is moving pretty quickly. This is the natural course of human fate, but I hope that this law will help us to identify the needs of this environment as accurately as possible and as effectively as possible we will help these people. Therefore, I hope that the work on this bill will proceed as efficiently as possible so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u172	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law on the amendment of the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and certain other laws contained in print No. 428, to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis in the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016 (print No 446). I ask Mrs Halina Rozpondek to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform presents a draft law amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016, print No 446. The law, the amendment of which we propose, was designed to give the legal basis for government and local government administration and services subordinate to an efficient organisation of World Youth Days. I'm sure she's very much needed. However, it is important that the law covers all preparations for the visit of the Holy Father to Poland. Knowing that the main residence of His Holiness will be Krakow, we cannot overlook the fact that it is also planned to come to Częstochowa and celebrate the Holy Mass at Jasna Góra. And although Pope Francis will be there for several hours, the scope and method of preparation of his visit should be identical to that of Krakow and also recorded in the act. In view of the above, we propose three substantive changes. The first concerns the connection in the title of the act of both cities as co-organizers of the World Youth Days, i.e. the record of Kraków-Czestochowa 2016. In the second amendment, which includes several articles, we propose that the Śląskie voivodeship should have similar powers in accordance with the characteristics of the operation, to those of the Lesser Poland voivode, where Częstochowa lies. Where the term "Małopolska Voivode" appears in the act, we suggest to add "Silesian Voivode." In the third change we propose to replace the city of Częstochowa next to the city of Cracow. This record is related to the installation of temporary telecommunications installations. The changes proposed by the club in the act will create legal bases for the Silesian voivodeship to take up, among others. efforts to grant special grants for the organisation and security of World Youth Days in Częstochowa. When proposing to amend the Śląskie voivodship, we followed, among others, the same powers as the voivodship of Małopolska. the provisions of Article. 7 the Constitution establishing that public authorities operate on the basis and within the limits of the law, which means that any action by public authorities can only be taken if there is a clear standard of competence which empowers a specific body to carry out a specific action. Let us remember that according to the Act of 23 January 2009 on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship in which the competence of the voivodship is defined and assigned to it, according to the administrative division of the country, the area of action, the voivodeship of the given voivodship cannot perform tasks and competences in the territory of another voivodship. Thus, the powers and powers conferred on the Malopolska voivodeship in connection with the organization of World Youth Days do not authorize it according to the right to similar activities in the Silesian voivodship. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The visit of the Holy Father is one of the most important events in Poland this year. It must therefore be well prepared, with a view to the efficient organisation and security of the faithful who will participate in it. We know that the main organizer of World Youth Days is the archdiocese of Krakow, but most of the activities to ensure the general public order will be carried out by institutions under government or local government administration. In the current law, the Małopolska Voivodeship has been equipped with all competences and has been assigned tasks for efficient organization and security in Kraków, including the possibility of financing them. Unfortunately, such competence was not given to the Silesian voivode, where Częstochowa lies. His Holiness Francis, as I mentioned, will be in Częstochowa, Jasna Góra, where he will celebrate the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. There will certainly be crowds of young people and faithful and numerous pilgrims staying on Jasna Góra during this period. It is estimated that around 1.5 million people from around the world will arrive in Częstochowa. They must be provided with medical care, parking lots, city cleansing, for a few days revolutionize urban communication, secure the route of the Holy Father's journey and pedestrians in which they will be pilgrims. The authorities of Częstochowa have experience in receiving pilgrims and organizing such great events - I will remind you 6. World Youth Days in 1991 with the participation of the Holy Father John Paul II - however, with this number of pilgrims there is always a need for additional organizational and, above all, financial support. President Częstochowa in his letter to the Silesian Voivodeship of 15 April this year. presented the cost of the planned visit of Pope Francis with the justification. These costs include, inter alia, medical protection, including the need to purchase an ambulance for so-called. Zero zones, for the service of the pope and his guests, and other activities already set out in the said Act, as well as the costs arising from the tasks of the city's own, including water draw points, portable toilet cabins, the cost of planning municipal waste in the city and at the place of assembly, temporary change of traffic organization, including changes in road signs, road barriers, warning tapes and other tasks, especially related to the need to repair roads, including the setting up of additional bus lines and additional public services. These costs, according to the calculations of the city's office, amount to around PLN 12.5 million. Other costs reported to the city president are related to the needs of the City Police Command and the City Fire Department and other services. Together, this was calculated at the amount of PLN 7.7 million. I mentioned only the necessary actions in Czestochowa to illustrate that the smooth preparation of the visit of the Holy Father and young people to Jasna Góra requires the work of many services and institutions, but also to bear the costs, regardless of how long the visit will last. If the High Chamber supports the changes proposed by my club, the Silesian Voivodeship, as a government-approved organizer, could, in cooperation with President Częstochowa, determine precisely the necessary scope of activities and costs. Turning to a more detailed range of changes, perhaps not so detailed, rather shorter, but I would like to stress that these most important changes are included in the title of the Act and in the article. 1 paragraph 1, where we propose after expressing the World Youth Days - Kraków, add a dash and enter the entry "Czestochowa 2016"; in art. 11, 15, 16 and 17 add the words "Silesian Voivode" after the words "Małopolska Voivode" and "Silesian Voivode"; in Article. In paragraph 29, paragraph 29 is replaced by the following: 1 after the words in the city of Krakow add a comma and words in the city of Częstochowa - these records relate to the installation by telecommunications operators of temporary telecommunications installations - and in art. 33 and Article 33 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 36 also after the words "Małopolska Voivode" add "Silesian Voivode." Art. 2 of the proposed amendment provides that the law shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. Any task related to the preparation of the World Youth Days, as justified by the original draft law, should be financed by means included in the budgets of individual ministers and services under their authority or in the special provisions planned for this purpose. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the applicants, the Civic Platform Club, I ask the High House to adopt in the quickest possible legislative path the amendments presented in the Act on amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016, which will allow the legitimate authorities of the government to prepare the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis in Poland in a comprehensive, safe and efficient manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u174	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. You will be the first to speak by Edward Sulphur on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the parliamentary bill amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. In the Parliamentary bill, a group of Members of the Civic Platform proposes to change the title of the Act and give its sound, I quote, about special solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis in the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków-Czestochowa. The question arises here, why not Kraków-Czestochowa-Oświęcim, because the Pope will be in these three villages. It should be noted that we want to make it very clear that the World Youth Day is an expression of its own, the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016, is its own name, the name announced by Pope Francis during the Mass closing 28. World Youth Days in Rio de Janeiro . In our opinion, its change does not lie within the competence of the administration of any country, including Poland as the organizer of World Youth Days this year. Art. 1 point 1 of the specifics which you propose to amend, states very clearly that the provisions of this law cover all events connected with the visit of Pope Francis to Poland. The provisions of the Act include events we will witness in Czestochowa and Oświęcim, as well as all events we will witness in the framework of the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. While the pope's short stay is foreseen in Czestochowa and Oświęcim, he will stay in Krakow for a few days. The records of the current specialization indicate very clearly the Małopolska Voivodeship as the entity responsible for the whole medical security of events connected with the visit of Pope Francis to Poland. Also in the Budget Act for this year - 2016 - as a financial manager for organizing and securing the ceremony, a Małopolska voivode is indicated, and consequently we would have to amend the budget law by changing the specialty. In order to improve the implementation of the organizational tasks, we adopted, when we worked on the specialization, that the stay of Pope Francis in Częstochowa would also be regulated by this law. The Małopolska Voivodeship and the Silesian Voivode have reached an agreement on this issue, including on financial matters. The specialization deliberately identified one entity responsible for purchasing: the Małopolskie Voivodeship to facilitate coordination of the purchase of both transport means, communications which are necessary as well as medical equipment which will be distributed subsequently, after the end of World Youth Days, and transmitted throughout the country. The Małopolska Voivode has already taken steps to purchase the necessary materials, means of communication or medical security elements. Any changes that we would make in this particular scheme today would substantially extend the purchasing procedure and question whether they could actually be implemented effectively and correctly. Thanks to the specialty it also managed to financially secure events on Jasna Góra. And I want to say very clearly: there is no danger that this event will not have financial security. It should be noted that on the basis of Article. 37 specialities of the Silesian Voivode may carry out transfers in its budget so as not to increase the total amount of expenditure. These are his decisions, depending also on how he communicates with the president of Częstochowa. In addition, on the basis of Article. 30 voivodships may grant grants, in this case to the Częstochowa self-government, to carry out their own tasks related to the World Youth Day in the field of transport, water supply or, as the Member said, maintaining cleanliness. This applies to all places that have been defined in the specification as those where World Youth Days are held. Czestochowa actually indicated, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that he needs more than 20 million PLN...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u176	Thank you very much, sir, you have exhausted your speaking time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u177	...but without specific indication of this amount. Since security and all events are secured by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Małopolska Voivodeship, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I request that the project contained in print no 446 be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u178	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Izabel Leszczyn from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Częstochowa, its inhabitants and local authorities are pleased that the Holy Father Pope Francis will be our guest. We often know how the visits of the heads of the Church are organized, because we had this privilege, it is happiness to host the Pope many times, and today St. John Paul II. But we also know the responsibility of the city authorities to ensure security, but also to organize a good stay for the faithful, pilgrims and tourists who from all over the world will come for these few hours of the stay of the Holy Father Francis. But nobody comes to Czestochowa for a few hours, these 1.5 million people will be in our city much longer. It is therefore necessary, according to the Civic Platform Club, to adopt an amendment to the law which Mrs Halina Rozpondek presented on behalf of the applicants. This law is the legal basis for spending funds for this purpose by the Silesian Voivodeship, which is appropriate for the city of Częstochowa. What is the cost of organising the stay of Pope Francis in Czestochowa? In terms of medical protection due to the poor technical condition of ambulances, their frequent emergency station has requested 4 ambulances with full equipment in accordance with the applicable regulations. The estimated cost of these ambulances is PLN 1.5 million. This expenditure is so important and important that one of these ambulances is to remain in the so-called. zone zero for the medical service of Pope Francis and his guests. She must meet the highest standards and standards of the highest quality. The safety of pilgrims is also the effective work of patrols and medical teams during the visit of Pope Francis, which in turn requires the addition of medical equipment and equipment. The estimated cost of the necessary purchases, which will make it possible to secure this important visit not only for Częstochowa, including ambulances, is about PLN 2 million. Medical security isn't everything, and it's not just the emergency room that's gonna pay for it. The City Hospital has to prepare about 100 beds, and additional services must be provided by doctors, nurses. In addition, professional speakers should be hired in the emergency room. From early spring in Częstochowa there are also renovations of roads, especially roads near the shrine and access roads to Jasna Góra. The cost of these works is PLN 4.5 million. Of course, it can be said that these roads will stay in my city, but everyone, especially here in this room, is aware that such cumulative and unplanned expenditure in the long-term financial forecast is not to be incurred in one financial year by the city. His Holiness's visit is also another organization of car traffic, pedestrian traffic, additional bus lines, city guard patrols. Additional financial needs are reported by the fire department and the police. Finally, if we want the spiritual capital of Poland to know about it, not only those who will host our city, but also their families, friends, neighbors, the city needs to prepare information materials in several language versions at the highest level. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, Prime Minister! To conclude: that in my city Częstochowa pilgrims who come from all over the world, provide sacrum, the authorities of my city must provide and finance the profanum. Without the help of the state budget, this cannot be done without amending the law. Therefore, like the applicant, I ask that the draft law be referred to the committee responsible. There you can change the title, because applicants are not concerned with the title and of course we can keep the name of the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. Please refer the project to the committee. There we will develop the final version, such that the pilgrims in Częstochowa will be protected, the city will manage all the tasks and responsibilities imposed on them, and the project will remain in the version that I am talking to the majority of the parliament about. It is not true what the Member said that the financial issue [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's negotiable between the voivode and the president because...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u180	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u181	Mr. Marshal, literally half a sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u182	Thank you very much. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u183	The province estimated costs of 1 million, while the city's cost estimate was 20 million. I am convinced that we must resolve this problem here in the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u184	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Bartosz Józwiak from the Kukiz club will now speak15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with preparations for the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis and the organization of World Youth Days - Kraków 2016 the government project so called. Specialities with special arrangements related to the organisation of the abovementioned visit and the aforementioned World Youth Days, and not so long ago the law was passed by the Sejm. At this point, another project, this time the Civic Platform, which addresses a very important element of securing this visit and the World Youth Days, is under the influence of the Sejm. It is a law which involves extending the newly adopted law by adding in the title of the law, but also in the detailed solutions of the city of Częstochowa and adding the Silesian voivodeship in addition to the Małopolska voivodeship in the field of, among others. carrying out medical security tasks, the obligation to transfer the medical security plan to the heads of the ABW and the BOR, the possibility of concluding agreements with social rescue organisations and other entities to medically secure the World Youth Days and the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis, making purchases related to medical security or the right to make available means of transport and communication and medical equipment to medical security realizers. This is a project that actually allows the Silesian voivodeship and the city of Częstochowa or the city of Częstochowa to public funds for this purpose, which, in our opinion, seems to be an important element of thought, because, since the tasks related to these projects will also be carried out there, these entities should also be taken into account in terms of the allocation of funds. Thus, the aim here is to extend access to these budget funds included in the reserve. As Kukiz,15 we have stressed from the very beginning that ensuring security and public order and creating all conditions guaranteeing a peaceful and mobile course... stable, sorry, the course of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis is one of the priorities and tasks that lie not only on the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, but also on the parliament. That is why we believe that the proposal addressed by Members of the Civic Platform at the moment is worth further consideration, and we will support that it be addressed to a committee where we can lean on it. I remind you that some of these solutions have already been reported to the committee. Then, at a rather rapid rate, certain things were processed, not everything may have been well thought out. I think we should now have time to make some adjustments and meet the expectations of other organisers of these two projects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Jaskoła will now speak, who will use the rest of the Kukiz club's time15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u187	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am a frequent worker and, of course, I am very pleased that this project has been submitted. [[Believers or unbelievers?]] No, there will be no socialists of believers and unbelievers. We are very pleased that His Holiness is coming to Czestochowa, and I am surprised that the project, which will improve the financing of a very complicated undertaking, is divided as usual by political parties. Even in this case, we can't find any consensus. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a year of gigantic threats. After all, there was a terrorist threat in Brussels, there were terrorist attacks, we have the NATO-V Summit. After all, we're gonna be targeting a lot of crazy people who can do harm. The whole logistics isn't that different. Ladies and gentlemen, His Holiness will be in our city for a few hours, perhaps he will sleep over, but the pilgrims will arrive for about 3 days. After all, they are mostly pilgrims who do not reach Krakow, they are Polish pilgrims. This is logistics for 1.5 million, possibly 2 million people. And I would, of course, ask you to direct this project... Częstochowa can't handle such costs, it's impossible, because it's too difficult. There is a huge difference, ladies and gentlemen, if the Silesian voivode is talking about a million, a little more than a million zloty security, the city was initially talking about 24 million, at the moment we are talking about 19 million, not me, just the city. Perhaps we can find consensus. But please note that we have an outdated structure primarily for medical rescue. We have an outdated road structure. We need to prepare very well - among others. This famous road, the way of life, which must be led to the best hospital in Czestochowa. We have to organize this, and we have no other choice. And the fact that Częstochowa is not quite ready shows the facts for which I am already appealing. Because I don't know if you know we're on the eve of such a visit, and in Częstochowa committed suicide by a high-ranking anti-drug officer, and he leaves a letter showing the reasons for it, a drug cell is being solved, but maybe we are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unprepared. The Kukiz movement will support...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u188	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u189	...to refer this bill to the committee for further investigation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u190	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Posel Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it's a good thing that the Civic Platform Club has tabled amendments and an amendment to this law, because the process over this law was actually quite fast and certain things have escaped. As for the title, you can really look for such a solution, so that it simply meets all expectations and does not arouse controversy, also as regards the promotion of this event, because it would actually disturb this process of preparing all materials, including advertising, but it is about details. Mr Sulphur of Law and Justice said that financial matters are a problem. But if it turns out that there are opportunities for the Małopolska voivode to pass on the funds he received, the Silesian voivode, I can see that there will be no problem. However, the fact is that the inclusion of Częstochowa in this law is justified, because it will facilitate certain activities of both local government and the Silesian voivodeship. On the other hand, there was also an argument that he was still Oświęcim. From what I remember, Oświęcim is in the Małopolska Voivodeship, therefore the actions of the Małopolska Voivodeship including Oświęcim are not a problem. I think it would be worth leaning down, and here I would ask very much the Law and Justice Club, I call for it to actually send this proposal to the Parliamentary Committee again, because we want to make four amendments, which are substantive amendments. These are amendments which have been tabled by the organisers. I happen to be on the organizational committee in Krakow. Several important issues have been raised, such as the voluntary work of doctors who will come from all over Europe, who have the power to act within the European Union. Unfortunately, they must obtain a special permit from the Regional Medical Council for action in Poland. We want to shorten this process so that we do not wait for this confirmation by the District Medical Council, only to be decided by the President of the District Medical Council and to include these doctors in the list allowed to function in Poland. The second thing the organizers raised was rather, rather trivial, but it turns out that it is quite complicated, namely the matter of maintaining cleanliness, of exporting garbage from those areas where these meetings will take place. These things are not completely regulated, and the application of the rules that are now very much limits the real functioning of local governments in the area of order and cleanliness. Another thing that's important is the transport organization. We know that this is a gigantic undertaking and there will be a lot of people involved who will prepare transport, but they will also be companies, they will be small economic operators who are involved in transport. Therefore, the application of the 2001 Road Transport Act will very often limit the possibility of signing and organising the relevant contracts. Another issue that seems to be very important is the issue of ensuring an adequate standard for accommodation facilities, including educational establishments. These accommodation places will also be located in relases or sports facilities. This amendment will determine exactly what is the minimum, which must be ensured that these institutions meet these requirements, because, I will not hide, we care very much about this, and I think all Members of this Parliament will want this visit to be very well organized, safe and dignified. There is therefore no need to bargain here. Let us look for a solution that will actually enable this whole operation to be carried out smoothly, quite complicated. I think it would also have to be considered in relation to the major terrorist threat, whether an amendment would also have to be made which would limit the possibility of using drones during these ceremonies. This is a very dangerous situation where the drone can be used and cause a really big commotion. We can see, therefore, that if these amendments and this novel were to be examined in the Parliamentary Committee, perhaps the experts would notice some of the things that should be added to the bill so that it would actually consume all the important matters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Oh, of course, I'm asking you to hand this project over to the committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u192	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u193	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! The period of more than 1 month from the date when the High Chamber decided to adopt a law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis and the World Youth Days in the Republic of Poland. This law is an accident, which clearly means that it will be in force for a strictly defined period of time and will serve to carry out specific tasks. At this point it is acceptable to note that none of the political forces represented in the present Parliament opposed the need for the adoption of the said law. On the contrary, Members and Members of the Polish People's Party look forward with joy and satisfaction to the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to our homeland. We expect and believe that every word spoken by Pope Francis is like a good seed thrown into the Polish soil, from which it will grow, or at least rise, a new value. Perhaps at least for a moment this will silence Polish disputes, often concerning minor issues. This visit, like any other such rank, must serve and accompany appropriate logistics activities, which, I do not hide, must involve specific expenditure borne by the state budget. The responsible for preparing the visit of Pope Francis and the organization of World Youth Days probably forgot the route and locations of His Holiness Francis' stay in the whirlwind of events. This is what puts the High House before the urgent amendment of the Act of 18 March 2016. High Seym! We are faced with a choice: either we make an amendment in accordance with the proposals in print 446, or? Well, Częstochowa is another very important place of residence of Pope Francis, but there will be about 1.5 million people from all over the world. Medical care, parking lots, city cleaning and changing public transport routes must be provided. The information provided to the Members shows that the police lack such basic elements to secure the route of the Holy Father, such as metal barriers. It's just the basis of the deficiencies. Kraków has already reserved all funds so that, however, the Silesian voivode can make efforts to grant a special grant for the organisation and handling of these two very important events, it must have a legal title. It's the bill that's being processed today. Public authorities may not act on a presumption of rights basis. This must come directly from the provisions of the normative acts. This parliamentary bill contains seven amendments to the Act already passed so that its content can be applied to the activities of the Silesian Voivodeship. Records directly enable the relevant authorities to act within the legal limits and to consolidate cooperation. It is therefore difficult to resist the impression that we are working under pressure of time and urgency. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Regardless of the personal feelings of Members, members of the Polish People's Party, referring to the legislative procedure itself, the club of the Polish People's Party, which I have the honour to represent, will be in favour of directing the submitted project to further parliamentary work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u194	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list for the question. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. Mr Gadowski from the Civic Platform is the first question to be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is no doubt that the most important event in Poland in 2016, world rank, is the visit of Pope Francis and the World Youth Days, but also the event that will take place in Czestochowa. It seems natural that Members also want this event to take place in Częstochowa, this visit, to be adequately secured in terms of organisation, security, but also financial security. I wanted to ask the Minister, since we heard that there is an agreement between the Małopolska Voivodeship and the Silesian Voivodeship, what this agreement concerns and how much money the Małopolska Voivodeship will give to the Silesian Voivodeship for this purpose. In general, I also wanted to ask the Minister how he felt about this bill. Is there any point in proceding this bill? Are those records, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are today in the primary law or in the basic law which we have adopted, also provide financial and organisational security for the presence of the Pope in Częstochowa? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u196	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski from the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u197	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The government was well aware of the route of visit of His Holiness Pope Francis, hence my question. What was the reason why the government, when introducing a bill, did not ensure that the two voivodeships, in accordance with the law, could provide adequate public support for the organisation of this important and expected visit? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u198	Thank you very much. Will the Minister speak? Mr Paweł Majewski will now take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to these questions that have emerged, I think it is necessary to correct the result of some selective treatment of the records of the specialty. Well, first of all, Częstochowa is included in the bill. No one's forgotten about her when she fell from that podium. This is defined in Article. 1 point 1 of the specialization, which reads that it defines specific tasks of public administration bodies connected with the organisation of the visit of His Holiness the Pope to the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. This means that all subsequent records that follow in the specialty refer both to Krakow and to Częstochowa, i.e. both to the visit and to the World Youth Days. Therefore, both voivodeships, also Silesian voivode... For example, art. 37 specifications indicate that both can reduce expenditure in one place in their budget and increase elsewhere. That gives them a special act. Art. 32 points out that both voivodships may grant grants for their own tasks related to the organisation of World Youth Days in the field of collective transport, water supply, cleanliness and order. This applies to both these places, both Częstochowa and Krakow. The Małopolska Voivodeship found itself in the specialty, which coordinates medical security, because the special act does not regulate financial matters. These issues are regulated by the Budget Act, which was adopted earlier. The medical security funds were included in the budget of the Małopolskie Voivodeship due to the need for coordination in one place of this security in terms of equipment purchases, but above all because at the stage of the establishment of the Częstochowa budget law there was not in the official program of the visit of the Holy Father. [[There's a budget reserve.]] Hence the agreement between the voivods was signed today. It defines the division of tasks in terms of medical security and provides the Silesian voivodeship with the financing of this part of medical protection, which will concern Częstochowa - in terms of the amount of funds, according to this agreement, according to the estimate of expenditure. I mean, the Silesian voivode indicates expenses, the Malopolska voivode settles them. So that as far as medical protection is concerned, it is provided. As regards security, Mr Jaskoła spoke of this, these funds are in the budget of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and will also be spent on Częstochowa. Since the Special Act concerns the visit of His Holiness the Holy Father and the World Youth Days, it means that during the visit to Czestochowa, and during the visit to Auschwitz, and during the World Youth Days in Cracow, these MMA funds will be able to spend on railings, on everything that is needed to secure the visit. And these funds are already being spent, that's already happening. The third part of the needs that the State submits as representatives of Częstochowa are the needs of local government. They shall also be secured by Article. 32 specialists, voivodships can grant for these purposes. There is no need to change the specialty, there is a need for an agreement between the local government and the voivode. From what the Silesian voivode reports, talks are ongoing with the Częstochowa self-government about the extent to which the voivodeship will be able to support the local government when it comes to organising this event. And he will certainly do so to the extent necessary to properly receive the Holy Father and to entertain the pilgrims. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, in this first request of the voivode, which was sent to the Ministry of Finance, these needs were very generally formulated and there really were many such things as the World Youth Day or this visit. It was not known why such measures were there. The Holy Father was already in Czestochowa, not the Holy Father, but the Holy Father Benedict, the Holy Father John Paul. II, there was no specialty then, hence e.g. The roads that had to be built in the city were not built in such a mode, there was no basis for that. So I don't understand why, in connection with this visit, a special act would give reasons to account for e.g. Some construction of roads in the city. It seems completely unwarranted. I assure you that the Silesian voivode is in contact with President Częstochowa, in contact with the local government. These funds for the security of Częstochowa from the tasks of the local government, e.g. municipal, I'm sure there will be, and, as I'm saying, the other measures, in terms of safety and medical security, are where I pointed them out. Therefore, I think there is no need to alarm the inhabitants of Częstochowa. I would appeal to your Members, especially from Częstochowa, not to cause such concern to the inhabitants of Częstochowa - that it is Częstochowa that it is forgotten that Częstochowa is not secured. Please note that the special act does not refer to the distribution of funds, they have been divided into budget. Spectaw gives the voivodships, both to Małopolskie and Śląskie, the possibility of sharing the funds that are planned in the budget, gives them the tools to divide these funds, but the special act does not give rise to any new financial consequences. So I'm asking that, by arguing, in the local media or here, as we had the opportunity to observe it in this room, from this speaker, do not use such an argument, because it is not real. The Spec Law doesn't have any financial implications, it just gives the voivodships the opportunity. Here and now we need local government and voivodeship cooperation to apply for these funds for specific purposes. And I believe that if this is justified, and this is the declaration of your voivodeship, these expenses will be covered. So there doesn't seem to be any need to cause such concern for the inhabitants of Częstochowa. I would very much appeal because the Special Law was adopted in a political consensus, there was no opposition in this Chamber when it comes to specialization, so that we would maintain such a good atmosphere. It does not really serve the purpose of the Holy Father's visit to cause such anxiety that some point has been forgotten. or that there's no means for anything. I would very much ask you not to cause such concern, because it's just not true. The records of the specialities give the opportunity to spend these funds, but we need some cooperation on assessing the validity of these expenses, but here, in the Seym, we will not change this, it must take place on the line of the municipal government - the voivode. I assure you, this work is ongoing. I hope that all parties will be satisfied and that the visit of the Holy Father will not be the subject of a political dispute. [[Of course it's not.]] Remember that the previous visits of the Holy Father were not regulated by special laws. In the specialty we do not forget about Częstochowa, but we focus on some other issues, we simply give some additional possibilities to voivodships, and these possibilities also safeguard Częstochowa, as I have shown by quoting specific articles of this law. Therefore, once again, I would very much call for this consensus to be maintained and uncalibrated...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u200	Minister, you're saying the same thing again. Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Majewski: Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Will you be performing? You are, aren't you? I'm also asking you not to repeat the same arguments and sentences indefinitely. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First, I wanted to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u202	On behalf of... As a representative of the applicants, Mrs Halina Rozpondek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u203	First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to you and your fellow Members for supporting this legislative initiative, because it is really very simple and very necessary, not even to the people of Częstochowa, but to the government. Your words, Minister, that we arouse concern among the inhabitants of Częstochowa, suggesting that the visit was not well prepared, are not true. We know very well as often as activists, public officials, how to organize this visit, and we are always well prepared for such visits. On the other hand, this visit involves a very large amount of expenditure and in order for the city to receive money for this expenditure from the state budget, it must be noted in the special scheme that such funds may be available to the Silesian Voivodeship. I do not understand what the agreement between the Silesian Voivodeship and the Malopolska Voivodeship is. There is no way that Małopolska Voivodeship operates in the Silesian Voivodeship. That is why we recognise that this excludes both the constitution I have mentioned here and that it also excludes the law on voivodship and government administration in the voivodship. Therefore, we believe that this necessity, which will only help the government in the proper distribution of resources. I am very surprised that this completely apolitical law, which aims to help the good, efficient organization of the Holy Father's visit to our country, the Law and Justice Club is against it. Mr Giżyński, present in the Chamber, knows very well what preparations are and what needs are, the Minister certainly does not know this range of activities during the pilgrimage movement. We know very well, but we know that funding is still necessary at this point, so that with full responsibility it can be said at the beginning of August that the visit of the Holy Father was safe and successful. Here I will support Mr Swallow - we are now living in very dangerous times, we do not know what will happen. Any matter which is connected with the visit of the Holy Father should be refined. If there's a special act, then there should be all the necessary records in this specialty. I call on the Law and Justice Club to withdraw its application to reject this law and also agree to proceed with it in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u204	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. A motion for rejection at first reading of the bill was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 17th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Mr Szymon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club, will make the first statement. Mr. President, how about the minutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u205	20 seconds, Mr. Marshal will spare me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u206	Oh, because you're short. Right. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska accused Minister Krzysztof Czabanski of waving his hands and holding his hands in his pocket during today's speech in the Sejm. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that both activities - waving their hands and keeping them in their pockets - cannot be done at the same time. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u208	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, with his statement. Unfortunately, not in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to give you my statement. Henry Dobrzanski. On April 30, 1940, he died in battle with the German invader, died in the area of Angelina near Opoczno, in my constituency. He's the war hero of my constituency. I think Hubal's nickname is known to everyone. What can I say? Recently, at the end of February, at the cemetery in Inowłodz, Opoczyn County, another exhumation of the corpse was carried out, which may prove to be the corpse of Major. Henry Dobrzanski. At the moment, the institutions involved in genetic research are working to determine whether the corpses exhumed at the cemetery in Inowłodz are really the corpses of the major. Within a week, two weeks we'll know about it. This is, of course, linked to a new lead on Major. Henryk Dobrzański, a lead of a family who, after the death of one of the members, learned about the mystery hidden by the family members who died, about the photograph of a place in the cemetery where the words were written that Major Henry Dobrzański might be buried there. Major Henryk Dobrzański is a national hero, but he is still an underrated soldier of the Polish Army Division. In my neighborhood, he's worshipped like a national hero of the highest flights. Tomorrow at hours. 9 at the site of the hypothetical death of Major. Henryk Dobrzański at the symbolic grave there will be a celebration, to which I invite everyone, a celebration which will be another reminder of this great patriot, a great soldier, a great Pole. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no point discussing his wonderful biography here. From such curiosity that I would like to remind you of the man Henryk Dobrzański was... He died at the age of 42, which is the age I myself am now, so maybe that's why I'm so close to him. When I went to elementary school, my colleagues were sons and grandchildren of Hubal soldiers, so really my emotional attitude towards this character is justified. I just wanted to talk to you about a curiosity like that from the major's life. Major Henryk Dobrzanski owned a cigarette case. Apart from being a soldier, he was also an athlete, riding a horse, at the Olympic level. This cigarette case was given by colleagues, other players, not only Poles, even before the war. It was engraved with the inscription: For Henryk Dobrzański, the best rider in the world. There are various hypotheses regarding the death, the burial of the major, so far we don't know where his grave is. Some hypotheses say that the corpse was desecrated and buried somewhere in the roadside forest near Tomaszów Mazowiecki, but some say that despite 1940, the Germans buried the corpse of Major. Henry Dobrzański at a cemetery in Tomaszów. So far, no hypothesis has been confirmed. The trail ends on a fact which is confirmed that the Major's corpse was brought to the German unit, which was in Tomaszów Mazowiecki in 1940, to identify and identify that it was indeed Major Henryk Dobrzański. What happened next? It's a riddle waiting for an explanation. Anyway, I hope this lead from Inowłodza turns out to be true, and we will finally have the real grave of our national hero Major. Henry Dobrzanski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u210	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylvester Khrushch of the Kukiz club15. Absent. Mrs Teresa Nolas from the Law and Justice Club. How about the minutes, Member?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u211	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to what Benjamin Franklin is saying, there are two things in life, including one of them being... [[Death and taxes.]] ...taxes. Taxes have existed since ancient times, and today they really apply to everyone. A large part of our income is spent on taxes. In addition to taxes, we pay them everywhere: in the shop, in the theater, in the bus. According to the Tax Order, they are compulsory, non-refundable, public-law, resulting from the laws of unpaid cash benefits. And if it is about taxes, then I would like to state that I very much hopefully adopted the Prime Minister's announcement on the sealing of the tax system and the increased control of any pathology associated with it. First of all, I would like to add that this is not about control of small or medium-sized Polish companies, because these taxes pay, but about big corporate market players. Behind these words are real money, which unfortunately flows from Poland to the so-called. tax havens. As last year's reports from many research centres entitled to such analyses have shown, as a country, we are constantly losing the company's income abroad. This is mainly the case for CIT revenue. Although conservative estimates point to budget losses of about PLN 10 and 12 billion per year, this indicator is underestimated by the difficulty of obtaining concrete evidence based on the fact of a capital drain in most semi-legal ways. There are really many examples of this, and it is not possible in such a brief statement to refer to all relationships. It is undisputed that Poland is in the very forefront of countries, from which foreign corporations are sending tax funds to other countries of the European Union, including mostly to Germany. It is also true that a number of these entities are cross-border and are not like other small businesses and enterprises assigned to the country in which they are located. They can therefore choose the country in which the most favourable income tax rate is created for them. And that is the fundamental project of the future change. I hereby point out the importance of the problem that needs to be dealt with properly, weighing analytically and economically the most advantageous solutions, including those aimed at making it worthwhile for entrepreneurs in Poland to do business and pay taxes. This is an essential step for the government. I hope that optimal solutions will come soon in this regard. The principle should be simple: where goods are produced, where goods and services are sold, taxes should be paid. Always and without exception, period. Perhaps then we would not have to charge citizens with less or more taxes than everything as a state. A separate issue is the need to simplify tax solutions and reduce taxes for Polish family companies. We do not need to convince each other that this is the solution that will give a positive kick, in the best sense of the word, to the Polish economy. The Poles, in the words of our Prime Minister, are a proud nation. Poland is a country that deserves all respect for its history and for what it has given the world. All I can say from myself is that Poles have many determinations, potentials and good ideas to live and work in their country, and live among their loved ones. That's all they need to be helped with. Thank you kindly, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u212	Thank you very much. The last statement will be made, unless it is forwarded to the minutes, by Mr Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u213	Dear Marshal, Fellow Members! Welcome to the Patriotic Mayion of the Native Americans! Oh, I can already see it: organizing and cleaning houses to get the best rest during the coming long first May weekend. Well, it's quite obvious and natural that we write down these days for different forms of activity - after all, to be active is not only fashionable but also meaningful. Therefore, let's not be surprised at the mass activity of Poles and Poles: running, roller, bike, walking, riding, swimming, can be exchanged without a number. Rejoices this image of busy parks, bike trails, walks or pitches. Something's changed in our attitudes toward motor activity, and that's good. And the most beautiful thing is when we perform a sporty, recreational feat or activity together, the whole family, when the wife, and the children will sweat - as do you, man - will feel the taste of sports fatigue, but also the satisfaction of accomplishments. The whole taste of the family preparation of equipment, the determination of the route of the walk or bike rally There's no Facebook or cyberspace activity. Good. Let's give ourselves the fun of being together in a dense presence, caring for each other, enjoying counseling, setting an example. When a parent, mother, or father, can swell faster than a child who - sensitive to parental shortness of breath - slows down, adjusts pace, starts to lead the group. Or even more lucid: when a father and son competes, first discreetly to give clear signals with each kilometer that this is for real. And when they come home, when they're all in peace, they don't want to make dinner, even though they're hungry like wolves, but they're kind of dead. And then you have to get over yourself, get up, stand next to your mom and pitrate something in the kitchen. But this isn't the only script of this mayor. After all, traditionally and stereotypically you can drink almost to death and wake up only on Monday morning. You can hit a dead bull with a remote control at hand and feel the life passing by. You can argue on the first day and stay in a mood until the end. What will happen to our participation? Yours, too. What's the trigger for this to happen and not the other way around? Fate, fate, other people or myself and my determination to spend this time beautifully? Perhaps you're surprised that I didn't say anything about the Feast of the Flag - May 2nd - and the Feast of the Constitution on May 3rd. I don't want to moralize or treat you paternalistically. As well as whether you'll join the celebrations of this holiday, it's up to you. For us, MEPs, local government officials, uniform services, often school pupils, especially flag posters, are a time of increased activity. And even though we know why and why we worship these holidays, sometimes we are saddened that there are usually no inhabitants of our villages and cities next to us. So I'd like to ask you to join us spontaneously, without coercion, not out of compulsion, but because it makes sense and it's not only important but also beautiful. Come and join us wherever you can spend that time. Let us celebrate it together, not that some are celebrating for others or in the name of others. After all, this is our holiday together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u214	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u215	The statement of the Members on the occasion of the 95th anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 95 years ago, on the night of 2 to 3 May, the Third Silesian Uprising began, aimed at connecting Upper Silesia to Poland. Its direct cause was adverse for Poland's decision of the plebiscite. Uprising as an option in case of victory of supporters leaving Upper Silesia within Germany was planned long before the plebiscite. Similar actions were planned Germany in the event of a negative outcome of the vote. Even during the preliminary work on the Treaty of Versailles, this area was already the subject of disputes because it was considered to be one of Europe's most valuable industrial areas. When it turned out that the results of the plebiscite and the ratio of the division of Upper Silesia were unfavourable, it became clear that the only way to defend against national oppression was by fighting armed forces. Insurgent preparations have therefore been initiated. In April 1921, a plan of armed speech was developed and approved by Wojciech Korfante. The supply of weapons and ammunition at the Silesian border was also complemented and transport, communications and hospitals were prepared. However, these activities were carried out mainly because of the possible attack of Upper Silesia by the Germans. It was known that German troops were demobilized to Upper Silesia. After the second uprising and liquidation of the Security Police, Germany began to form a new military force. It was a secret organization of self-defense in Upper Silesia. On April 30, the Silesian Scriptures announced that the Intersocious Commission had sent two different proposals for the division of Upper Silesia to the Supreme Council. One project was to grant Germany almost 3/4 of the plebiscite area. This information caused bitterness and uprising of the Polish population. On the sign of protest on May 2, there is a general strike in mines and steelworks. The 3rd Silesian Uprising broke out at night from 2 to 3 May 1921. The fighting lasted 2 months - the insurgents managed to master almost the entire plebiscite area, later defending it from German forces. The most serious clashes took place in the vicinity of St. Anna. Then the most important battle for Mount St. Anna, during which Polish insurgents lost her and Kędzierzyn, but did not allow them to break the front line and invade the Germans into the industrial district. About 60,000 took part in the Third Silesian Uprising. Poles - 1218 of them were killed, 794 were wounded. As a result of this break, it was decided that the division of Upper Silesia would be better for Poland. From the plebiscite area, which is over 11,000. km2, inhabited by more than 2 million people, 29% of the land and 46% of the land were added to Poland. population. In Poland there were among others. Katowice, Świętochłowice, Królewska Huta (now the town of Chorzów), Rybnik, Lublin, Tarnowskie Góry and Pszczyna. The division was also beneficial for Poland - 53 of the 67 existing mines, 22 of the 37 large furnaces and 9 of the 14 steelworks were located on the connected area. But the most important thing was that it was the spirit of the nation and its national solidarity, as well as the sense of responsibility of every citizen that led to this success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u216	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're on the eve of May 3rd National Day. It is not possible, in a brief statement, to recall the background of the historical government law of 3 May 1791, its significance in Europe and the world, or its consequences of its introduction, and I will therefore focus on its preamble to the quintessence. I will also remind you that the Government Act of 3 May was passed by the Sejm on 3 May 1791, preventing abuse of the law of liberum veto. There was opposition to this law, and the Parliament and the Constitution were held under the conditions of a coup d'état. The preamble was this: In the name of God in the Holy Trinity of the One. Stanisław Augustus from God's grace and will of the Nation King of Poland, the Great Prince of Lithuania, Ruski, Pruski, Mazowiecki, Żmudzki, Kijowski, Wołyński, Podolski, Inflancki, Smoleński, Siewierski and Czerniechowski, along with the confederation states, the number of the double Nation of Poland representing, recognizing that the fate of all of us from the establishment and improvement of the national constitution was merely hung over the long experience of knowing the appointed government of our faults, and wanting to benefit from the time in which Europe is in which we are entrusted, willing and for the blessing of this time, free from the disgraceful foreign orders, appreciating the precious and future generations of our life, over the happiness of personal political existence, independence and freedom of our nation, whose destiny in our hands is fully entrusted to us, and for the blessing of this present and future, we deserve, despite the obstacles that in us, for the sake of our freedom, for the sakes of our universal, for the sake, for the sake of our peoples, for the sake of the sake of our people. To which the constitution further laws of the Seym present in all things are to apply. How to hear the words contained in this preamble - such as: the fate of the nation is entrusted in your hands, despite the obstacles and passions that are in us, for the common good, for the strengthening of freedom - not to admire their courage? Finally, nothing more than adding the most important words for each Pole: respect, admiration, bravery, sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-sejm-17-3.u217	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 17th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 18th session of the Sejm, convened on 11th, 12th and 13th May 2016, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 13 min 34]]
