ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. High Izbo, I would like to propose that we begin our deliberations today with a minute of silence to commemorate the marriage of Joseph and Victoria Ulm and all Poles... But please sit down for a moment. ...who died saving Jews during World War II in Poland. But before that, I'd like to ask you to take the floor of Professor Jan Zarin. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u2	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! It may be worth recalling this tragic event. On the night of 23 to 24 March 1944, German MPs, Germans armed to the teeth, with very young, twenty-year-old MP Dieken headed, entered the farm of Polish farmers, the family of Józef and Victoria Ulmów, where two Jewish families were hidden. Victoria and Joseph had six children, and the seventh child was on the way. Very beautiful Polish family. They were brutally murdered. First mentioned two Jewish families, then Joseph and Victoria, then, one by one, six children. Today we know that the seventh child began to be born in this tragic reality for Victoria, at the last moment of her life. The Mark's phenomenon in Podkarpacie lies not only in the fact that the Ulms lived there, but also, Dear Lords, in the fact that despite such a lesson that the Germans applied to Ulmów, and indirectly to the inhabitants of Markowa, other families there, according to the research of historians, continued to save Jews. At the time of entering the Soviet army, 21 people were rescued. It is a microcosmos, such a small town in Podkarpacie, and at the same time a big voice concerning Polish attitudes during World War II. And today is a good time to remind you of that, because in a few hours in Markowa a museum will be opened in honor of Poles saving Jews, the name of Joseph and Victoria Ulm. The first museum in Poland to speak about Polish beautiful attitudes at this tragic time, in 1939 and 1945. Hence the proposal and request that we commemorate the memory of all the Jews who died at the hands of the German occupier who assigned this nation to destruction And there were at least 5 million 500 thousand of them in Europe, as well as all the heroic Poles who risked their lives, their loved ones' lives, tried to save or rescue Jews, especially those who died and had at least a few hundred of them, if not more than one thousand, because historical research in this area is still ongoing. Let us use this moment, this day, when President Andrzej Duda will open a museum in Podkarpacie, so that we can remind ourselves, Poles, and the world that Poland fighting during World War II had many names, and her name was among others.: Poles saving Jews.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u3	Thank you, Senator. Senator Bogdan Klich wants to speak. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Colleagues It's a memory that connects. It's a memory. above all divisions. This is the memory that we rebuild and restore after years of neglect and years of oblivion. When it was first published in the Polish language of the Book of the Righteous Among the Nations by the Krakow Institute of Strategic Studies in 2004, and when Władysław Bartoszewski informed Professor Israel Gutman of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, he wrote: "Dear Władek, I am very happy that such an initiative appeared, just tell me why it was so late. We're catching up on the delays in our historical consciousness. We're catching up. And this is to show this heroic, although the daily face of Poles saving their neighbors, Polish citizens, with the risk of their lives and their loved ones. The recently published book, in cooperation with both the Institute of Strategic Studies and the Institute of National Remembrance, shows how in the lens what was a daily challenge for many Polish citizens. It shows this heroism on a daily basis and shows this experience, which is written in the Book of the Righteous among the Nations. The Yad Vashem Institute has only a part of the knowledge of the extent and scale of this heroism. I also asked for the floor so that we could have the feeling that Markowa is a symbol of Polish heroism over divisions in this room and beyond. Because as a result of research conducted over the last 11 years, several hundred previously unknown stories of families and people who also died, who also died because of helping their neighbors, Polish Jews. I hope that these tests will continue. I also hope that another so-called. Records, that is, records of this daily heroism, will be published. Because it belongs to both sides: to those who died at the hands of the Nazis only because they were Jewish and those who died at their hands only because they helped those who required this help. Therefore, Mrs Marshal, I fully support the initiative to celebrate the minute of silence of events in Markowa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u5	Thank you, senators. Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] Thank you very much. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with items: the Act amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering and consider it as item 11 of the agenda; a law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in the Republic of Poland in 2016 and considering it as item 12 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. We proceed to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 80th anniversary of the first deportation of the Polish population to Kazakhstan. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and is included in print 108, and the report in print 108 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u6	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! The Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad is the main author of the draft resolution, which was created in connection with the 80th anniversary of the first deportation of the Polish population to Kazakhstan. The draft resolution was then subject to certain verifications in the Legislative Commission. Both in the Legislative Commission and earlier, in the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, the first and second versions of the project were adopted unanimously. Therefore, I hope that this project, which I will read to you in a moment, will not raise any special controversy here, and after reading I will try to say which seats were the most important discussion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[I ask you to remain silent and allow the senator to present the reasons for the resolution. Thank you.]] [[Quiet, patriotism we're talking about...]] I know that you have divisive attention, but not everyone is so capable, I don't, I don't have divisive attention, so I can't listen to your many conversations and talk at the same time. The text of this resolution is as follows. In 2016, the 80th anniversary of the deportation of the Polish population from the border areas of the Ukrainian Socialist Soviet Republic to the Kazakh Socialist Soviet Republic by the Soviet Union authorities. In two large waves of resettlement more than 60,000 Poles reached Asian steppes. This was one of the elements of terror launched by the NKVD mainly in the 1930s against the Polish population in the area of the former first Polish Republic, which was then inhabited by the Soviet Union. The tragedy of Poles throughout the territory of the Soviet Union in the 1930s should become a permanent element of Polish collective memory, which is a task for all public authorities. Despite the fact that 80 years have passed since those events, the effects of the drama of many victims of the 1936 deportation and their families living today throughout the former Soviet Union continue. The Senate of the Republic of Poland believes that it is the responsibility of the Polish State to allow the Polish population to return to Macierza. The Senate of the Republic of Poland honors and pays tribute to murdered and persecuted people. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. The basic difference between this project, which you probably have ahead of you, and the one that has gained acceptance at the level of the Legislative Commission, is that in the first sentence the word "Kazakhstan" has been changed to "Kazakh Socialist Soviet Republic" so that, I would say, we do not assume responsibility for these crimes of today's Kazakhstan state, but emphasize that historical moment. We discussed the most and longest of the opinions, which were ultimately deleted in this project, which was passed by the Legislative Commission. The sentence was as follows: At the same time, there are more than 30,000 Poles in Kazakhstan. We thought that it would be better to add to the previous sentence a fragment of the living today in the former Soviet Union, because those who were subject to these deportations and their families, as well as the successors of these families, are actually in many places in the former Soviet Union. This limitation to the Kazakh thread would indirectly be some unnecessary exclusion, and such exclusion, of course, we did not want in this resolution. Hence, the final version sounds slightly different than the one you can read in print 108. If I may offer something, I would suggest that this resolution be adopted not in this version, which was adopted at the level of the Committee on Immigration, but in the version adopted at the level of the Committee on Legislation. I repeat: this committee adopted the draft resolution unanimously after the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Jan Zarin to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Richard.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator and the applicant. It is constantly said that the Polish state will help families from Kazakhstan to return to their homeland. But when you talk to some of the people who live there, they don't want to go back. They want the Polish state to help them live better there, i.e. to support Polish schools, places of culture, meeting places etc. That's why in these different resolutions, but also in our conversations, I'm a little short... Because we constantly emphasize that they have to go back, and we don't talk enough about helping them. They want to live there, there they want to create, build and develop this Polish diaspora. Many of them, I'd say, have grown into that culture in that country. I am not only talking about Kazakhstan, but also about other republics of the former Soviet Union. So that I would like us to pay attention to this, too, especially since we don't do much to get these people back. Right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u9	Thank you very much. Yes, we discussed this issue at the level of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, and hence this sentence, which could of course have escaped attention in other sentences, which is as follows: The Senate of the Republic of Poland believes that it is the responsibility of the Polish State to allow the Polish people to return to Macierza. This means one-sided commitment, because, of course, even by thought we should not go through such a thing that we intend to continue deportation practices, i.e. forcing anyone to return to today's Polish country, so that it is not an expression of will, but an obligation. Therefore, this is a one-sided phrase, i.e. the Polish state should commit itself to enabling such a return. Of course, we know that Poles living in Kazakhstan or in other parts of the former Soviet Union and countries arising from I'm happy for you. I'm happy for you. The rubble of the Soviet Union, they don't want to come back. This is of course a problem which requires the opposite direction of action, i.e. strengthening all these ideas, ideas and practical solutions that serve to help Poles there, on the spot. As you know, the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad And that's why the Senate is here. At the moment it is on its way to, I hope, the most efficient distribution of funds to Poles outside the borders of the country in the East and Polonia in the West. This sentence was also needed in order to undoubtedly indicate that there is a great deal to be done on this issue when it comes to the Polish state. This is borne out by the reality of these two experiences we have had in the last two years, concerning the return of Poles from the war-threatening areas of today's Ukraine. As we know, it is possible to discuss for a long time whether the Polish state can cope with this small problem so far. It is therefore a kind of attempt to address to the competent authorities of the State of appeal that this readiness must have real safeguards, solutions... Of course, as you know, the Senate will also be working on a repatriation bill, and therefore all of this is connected to a logical whole, including the future. We discussed all of this, and it was also the basis for our reflection, which we see in this one small sentence, but it is not random.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u10	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. I therefore open the discussion. Are there any requests for discussion? Senator Comfort, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to support Senator Zarin's request that this text be as you suggested the senator. We talked in committee for a very long time, tried to balance the historical context, but also the context of our relations with Kazakhstan today. Thanks to the involvement of the senators, we have caught some problems concerning Polish diaspora at all, not only in Kazakhstan, because also the one who lives outside Kazakhstan at the moment, so that it is not worth... There is probably no time to quote all the arguments, but believe us, this is, as it seems, the most balanced text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u12	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a very important resolution. True, it concerns events from 80 years ago and it would seem that Poles do not live and remember these events on a daily basis, but it simply involves the fact that the Soviet Union has very effectively cut off the possibility of returning to those Poles who have been deported. That effectiveness was absolutely shocking. And those who tried to return to the country settled in those places where they had the opportunity to live. Therefore, in the resolution we do not only narrow it down to Kazakhstan, but we also include other Soviet republics. Today these environments are descendants of those who were exiled, e.g. because they were previously exposed to public positions This was the first reason for exile, and the second reason was the intellectual potential of these people. It was simply an elite who, through its intellectual level, could threaten the success of manipulation that was to be carried out on the people living in Volyn and Zytomir region. And what's significant is that here in the country, for decades, it hasn't really been mentioned or claimed for memory of that time. But this is the result of the fact that those who were directly interested were not here in the country. As for what my colleague was saying, that Poles do not want to come back from there, I must say it is true. I have contact with Poles living in Ukraine, with several environments, and I know that they have basically arranged their lives in the place where they came to live. Those decades were enough for them to find themselves in a situation where they lived. However, I note that the status of our compatriots there is very low. Professor of the dorm This is a high title, one of the highest that could be obtained in the Soviet Union, working still today, despite the age of 89, at the technical university in Sumach, earns $176 a month, and this is a pretty high ceiling, as for those conditions. The problems of these people today are just that, I would say, existential or existential problems. They usually ask us to allow their children, their descendants speaking Polish science and development in Poland. It's not that they want to come here, settle down and stay, it's that they want to learn here first and foremost. And this is what requests are most often made from there. To be honest, even when you work at a university, it is still very complicated to organise such help for people with the Polish Charter, it is simply difficult. And this is a lot of intellectual power, believe me, people from Ukraine or Belarus have much more potential in science than Poles. This is due only to the fact that there is much more physical science at the level of primary education than there is at our home, so these young people come much better prepared to study in technical studies than their countrymen from Poland. I am very grateful to all those who worked on this resolution, above all to the professor, for this contribution, but also to Mr Robert Wyszyński, who, as a material advisor, not only put a lot of work into preparing this resolution, but also devoted his time. You can say that part of your life To develop this particular subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u14	Thank you very much. Senator Anders, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u15	I haven't been to Kazakhstan, but I suppose the situation in Kazakhstan is more or less the same as in Uzbekistan. I was in Uzbekistan 3 years ago and thanks to my being there, we created a foundation for the name of General Anders, who managed to bring 150 young people to Poland. Unfortunately, I had to liquidate the foundation when I became a minister at the firm. My point is that it is not so easy to help Poles in these countries. However, I must agree that it is not easy for older people to come to Poland either. I worked with Ambassador Przeździecki, who was our ambassador in Uzbekistan, and he had such experience that older people do not integrate very much, but it is very important for young people. I, who to some extent became the face of the Repetition Act at all, must stress that no one is forced to come here. However, I think that young people should be encouraged to come here because they have absolutely no future in those countries. Yeah, I don't know. I have no experience with further steps in all this, but I think that if there is to be such a resolution, I think it should add something that would encourage young people to come.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u16	Thank you very much, Senator. Anyone else... You're welcome, Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Every day I deal with those who come to Poland to study just from Kazakhstan, and I would like to share some comments. First of all, if they manage to arrange formalities, they try not to take any more risks during their studies, not to come back, so to speak, a corkscrew of formalities that make it difficult to come to us. If we were to spend time discussing these matters and expressing our will here, we would do a lot, I think. And for this reason I appeal that we should move on to actions rather than words, appeals, etc., because it is difficult for these people even to stay here because they do not have access to scholarships. And you can't break it in any way. The EU border precludes us from financing those who come from there as native Poles for studies in Poland. And the most important thing. We must also bear in mind that most of them remain here thanks to private support from those who do not give their names anywhere, do not announce themselves. I have this situation in my home: 3 people from Kazakhstan have been in college for four years thanks to private support. Therefore, I appeal that we go from beautiful words to actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u18	Thank you very much, Senator. Madam President Sagatowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The resolution, which today, I hope, we will unanimously adopt, is a special resolution. This resolution that is ahead of us, we wish to remind ourselves... We are also to remind our fellow countrymen of the history, of the tragic history, of one of the threads of the tragic history of our nation. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Can I just speak, excuse me? It's too important. That's what we said... The beginning of today's sitting is, in a sense, pathetic and great for us, because we worship something and pay tribute to someone. We honored those who died in silence by saving others. With this resolution we pay tribute to those who have suffered. And those who feel bad there, in Kazakhstan, still suffer This is in relation to the statements in the discussion. With this resolution... We will not solve any repatriating, scholarly, etc. problems in this resolution. She's here to encourage young people and us to reach out to that story and get acquainted with it. Me, talking a lot. I've been taking care of Poles and Polonia for so many years... Young people, but not just them, because everyone doesn't even know the story. If you ask why Poles were in Kazakhstan, then few people will answer so historically that it was 1936 that it was Marchlewszczyzna, that there was just a Polish republic of councils, etc., etc., and then there was this tragedy... In the committee, before we started working on the resolution, we commissioned an expert, mentioned here Dr. Wyszyński, to present a historical study on this subject. In our committee, it is to be downloaded, and I encourage the senators to do so. The Senate issued them in the form of a sort of newsletter, and very gladly... We have this newsletter in our possession, and if any of your senators would be interested, please report to the committee and possibly such a newsletter, such a notebook download. So I repeat once again: we remember, we pay tribute, and we set ourselves a task. - Yeah, it's a job. As those who are responsible to the nation for politics, for creating one policy or another. And in general, our task is to help, to help Poles, as Senator Ryszka said, to help those who want to stay there by spreading Polish education there through language learning. And this is done, although, of course, not enough in each country where Poles are, especially in the East. This is because the budget of the Polish state I've talked about this a long time ago. Now rewritten at the Senate Chancellery, the 60.5 million, in relation to needs, it's really a drop in the sea to provide even this... And at the moment there is an explosion of Polishness in many countries, ranging from Lithuania, Ukraine, Siberia, Buria, etc. I'm not talking about the Western countries anymore. How big are educational and other problems!? There are children born, there you have to think about school places, Saturday-Sunday schools, etc. It's all in our hands, and it's right in front of us. As far as possible, let us strive to do so. We here in the Senate, the government, the Sejm and all those who... There are so many NGOs who do amazing, wonderful work for colonies, stays, education and others... Nothing but pay homage, how beautiful Poles here, in Poland, connect with Poles all over the world. And with this resolution we also express to all of them, as I believe... Now that we remember, we're also assigned tasks. And so Poles do, from Pomerania to Tatras. There are hundreds of organizations that work tirelessly to keep Poles connected worldwide. As the Holy Father said: where the Polish heart beats, there is Poland, there is the homeland. And I appeal: let us adopt this resolution without amendments, because it was really worked out in a great understanding and with a great heart by both committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u20	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Warzocha, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With reference to the words that have already been said here, and especially to what our committee president, Senator Janina Sagatowska, has just said, I would like to stress the value of the material that was developed at the request of our committee, by Dr Robert Wyszyński, and which is worth examining, worth studying, and that is very precisely because he shows in a holistic way a precise plan towards our nation, presented and executed by a criminal system, practically as much as he could afford. This plan was mainly based on three main points. The first was extermination. Where only such a possibility was created, the Polish nation living east of Bug. The second stage was repatriating and extorting people who were doomed to such fate. And the third point of this plan was to raise the young generation of Poles among the repatriates... They were prepared for the role of such jancers. That's when they often... History noted such cases that Polish people, Poles, young Poles raised by the Soviet system, when they returned to their neighborhoods, to their families, to their country, were hostile to Polishness, hostile even to their own parents or their own families. This is a crime. This material was presented at a committee meeting. In addition, it was extended by Professor Żarin, and not only by some comments and digressions, which we had great pleasure to listen to and which supplemented the presented knowledge. You have to remember all this because it's our story. And maybe that's enough at this stage for the past. Now, why don't we go ahead a little bit? I agree with the thesis of the senator, Minister Anders, that it is necessary, of course, to encourage a certain movement, especially the young generation that we care about, but of course it is not necessary in any way to close the door to the elderly, who wish that after years of wandering, including slavery, the coercion which the Soviet authorities have applied to them, they may return to their country or to the country of their ancestors. Let us also be aware that the various kinds of research and voices that come to us from there are very often mentioned in the eyes of people of Polish origin. He survived mostly in stories, stories that were often passed down from generation to generation, and today he has such a form of a little mythical, we often meet with such a term that is quite fairytale. Very often it was also so that in previous years people who came back here collided with reality and did not fully agree with the image that these people carried away from family memories. So before the Polish state, when the act on repatriation has already been processed and adopted, there will be a very important task. The law must be prepared in such a way as to create an appropriate system so that such people, when they come back here, can easily find themselves in our Polish reality. I'm saying this with no difficulty, because, of course, some difficulties will always occur and you probably won't get away with it. And maybe what I'm talking about isn't just a matter of writing a precise, good, or even great repatriation bill. It may also be necessary to interfere with the provisions of other legislation in order to surround the said legislation by legislation which will make the stay of these people similar to what they expect. It's a very important task. And I hope we can do it, or at least I believe it deeply. I would also ask the High House to adopt this resolution without any amendments. It was very carefully worked out and eviscerated in its details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u22	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have no doubt that this resolution, carefully drafted by the committee, should be adopted, preferably without amendments. I agree with the voices of all my previous speakers, with Senator Ryszka, that it is also necessary to take care of those who want to stay in Kazakhstan, but to give them at least a little help in cultivating Polishness, as well as those who want to make it easier to return to their homeland. I spoke because today I am flying to Kazakhstan as an electoral observer for the OSCE to the lower chamber of parliament, and at 12.00 I am to meet with the Ambassador of Kazakhstan in Poland. I have a favor to ask of Senator Zarin. I hope that until then we will pass this resolution, but even if we do not, I would ask for its draft, which I would bring to the Ambassador, to take this opportunity to pass on the Senate position and to claim the citizens of Kazakhstan who feel like Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u24	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more calls? There isn't. I therefore close the discussion. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering. The text of the Act is contained in print No 112 and the report of the Commission In print No 112 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, Senator Janina Sagatowska, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u25	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It was a Senate initiative, so the senators know the details. This bill was presented here, presented here. I had this great honor and honour to represent the High House during the work on our initiative in the Sejm in the relevant committees. Today I will remind you that the main purpose of this law was to put the role of the Senate in taking care of Polonia in financial terms into legal order. This was due to the fact that the Senate was always traditional and I stress this: it traditionally dealt with Polonia in the world; and only in the short term, from 2012 to last year, the funding of Polish and Polish people, their needs were dealt with by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Fortunately, these funds are now included in the Senate Office's budget. And so there is no objection to those who ask why the Senate is doing this, and who say it is only tradition, etc., who say And every once in a while, there's this one. We have decided to initiate this amendment in the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, because this is the least interference in the legal order. We are doing this in this act because the Senate, when carrying out this care, commissioning to carry out the tasks of investment, whether it is programme tasks, educational tasks, public benefit organisations, various organizations. These changes were written just to make it legally easier for us to carry out this task and to sort it out in a way. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has introduced very small legislative changes, which today, at its meeting of committees, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, have adopted, even with gratitude, because they were necessary, because now even more clearly, expressis verbis, the role of the Senate is included in this new proposed legal order. Both committees at today's meeting have submitted a resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments, as I ask on behalf of both committees. I would also like to thank the Minister, Members, for the smooth process and support of this law. We really felt a lot of support when we were working on it. Once again, thank you very much to all those who have worked on this bill, thank you and ask for the bill to be adopted without any amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the Senate. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I inform you that the representative of the government is the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz. You're welcome, Minister. [[A very competent minister, very much like everyone else.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to inform you that we do not have an official government position, but the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy does not raise any objections to this law, on the contrary, we believe that the long-standing tradition of the Senate in supporting Poles and Polonia is a guarantee that it will continue to be very well implemented. I would also like to thank the Senate for taking into account the introduction of a new sphere of public benefit in the amendments to the law, namely the activity of veterans and veterans affected during activities outside the country. We believe that this will enable the support of this group of people who deserved well for Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no calls. I'm opening a discussion. Are there any requests for discussion? [[I'd...]] Senator Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear guests! I believe that the words of thanks to the government of Mrs. Beata Szydło are appropriate, and I give these thanks to Minister Michalkiewicz. For the fact that what had been corrupted in the previous term, despite the protest of the entire Senate, also the Senators of PO and PSL, when Minister Sikorski was forcefully taking these measures to patch the budget holes in the Ministry of Finance, Mr Rostowski, has been repaired. Dear Members, as many protests as were affected at the time when the funds were in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the offices of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators, including mine, it was truly an unprecedented number. Before that, we adopted a resolution on Poles in Kazakhstan. There was a similar situation, all the Polish environments in the world were asking for this money to return to the Senate. And not without a Cossack, I said when Minister Michalkiewicz came in that he was the best minister, because I discussed these issues with him many times. His position was clear, namely to include it in the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering. Minister, thank you very much. On your hands, I thank the Government of Law and Justice for taking up this difficult subject. Dear Members, we must also thank Marshal Karczewski, because in the first version of the Polish Sejm he voted differently, but later there were his long long negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Poland, the support of the President of Law and Justice, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński for the sake of money being in the Senate. And we have today's effect. Thank you very much. [[And our president.]] And our president, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u30	Thank you very much, Senator. I see no further requests for discussion, and I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in 2016 in Warsaw. The text of the Act is contained in print 111 and the report of the Commission In print No 111 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present on behalf of the Senate Committee on National Defence a report on the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill in Senate print 111 covers the main objectives of preparing the big event that will take place in Warsaw, our capital in July of this year. The representatives of 28 countries, including the Heads of State and Government, will participate in the North Atlantic Pact Summit. Our national, national interest is to prepare very well for this event. And that's what this bill is for. The aim is to ensure that the organisation and execution of various types of supplies, services, works related to this event are efficient. This kind of special act, so to speak, shuts down the Public Procurement Act. As we know, the application of public procurement rules is not easy, and time runs inexorably. When we look at the calendar today, we will realize that this event, ladies and gentlemen, will take place in three months. And there's certainly a lot of preparatory work. During the committee meeting which took place today in the mornings, Minister Bartosz Kownacki, present among us, presented arguments that should encourage us to improve this organisation. As I'm sure you've noticed, Art. 2 states that this law applies until 15 July. So this is a law that has its precise time frame. I would like to say that this law was unanimously adopted by the members of the committee at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Senator, Mr President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I don't think I understand... It turns out that we really like the specialty, which is something that regulates some matter in a different way, as if we couldn't apply the rules that apply to us in normal mode. I haven't been to this committee meeting, but I have a public procurement law in front of me. Art. 4 of this law refers to which orders the law does not apply. Point 5 states that the Act does not apply to contracts which have been awarded a "secret' or "secret' clause in accordance with the provisions on the protection of classified information, or where the essential interests of State security or the protection of public security so require. I repeat: if this is required by an important interest in state security or the protection of public security. Therefore, there is such an exception in the Act. I'm sure the translation will again be that the previous government that didn't complete it didn't make it... But after all, the summit will be in July, i.e. it will be about 8 months of this government's existence. And I don't see the need to adopt a specialty that probably raises doubts about compliance with European law. 'Cause you're about to raise that kind of doubt. Can this not be done, firstly, on the basis of a law which provides for such exceptions, and secondly, on the basis of the Public Procurement Act, where it is real and possible to do so at that time? ♪ And where you can't ♪ - No, these are emergency situations described in this Act. Then you can benefit from it. So I don't really understand why we should create another specialty, a temporary one, for the period until July 15th, if all this is, in my opinion, to implement in accordance with the applicable regulations. Was there a discussion on this matter in the committee, a discussion? Was that taken into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u34	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, here's what I'm going to say. You are right, with only one exception: the Warsaw Summit was decided in 2014 in Wales, Newport... Well, I have to say it. The government under the leadership of your political formation, the Civic Platform, the government and the minister of the Civic Platform did not show due diligence, because the passing of time tirelessly... The Platform government had 14 months to prepare for the July summit Once again, from that moment on, we have 3 months left and did not even do such a thing as booking an object in which this event would take place. Above all, this summit is a success of Poland, not a success of any political formation. And this is the main intention of the government, the Ministry of National Defence, to focus at the moment all organizational forces to prepare it well without any reservations and to later rejoice that Warsaw for 28 NATO members was something special and important. I am not talking about the political layer which is for Poland, for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe... Recently, members of the Senate Committee on National Defence have had a meeting with a group of parliamentarians from Estonia, and this is also a very important event for them. And this diligence is related to the adoption of this law, which, as I say, has been kindly accepted by the entire committee during today's deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u36	Thank you. Now, let me give my voice by referring a little to Senator Flork's question. Mr President, what was the outcome of the vote on this bill in committee? In particular, I am asking how the senators from the Senate Civic Platform Club voted on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. As I said in the first part of my speech, the bill was adopted unanimously, also by the Senators of the Civic Platform present at the meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u38	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u39	I, of course, do not question the validity of the summit, preparations, efforts, etc., but we are talking here about two different issues. What you are saying is very important, but I stress all the time that we can of course say that Minister Siemoniak was a bad minister, and now there is a good minister, of course we can have such a narrative for a few months, but I think that after eight months it would be possible to end this narrative. I was talking about a simple matter, about the fact that there are laws that should apply to us, that there is a law that we must abide by, a law that also allows for action on the summit due to the provisions that are in this law, and there is a law on public procurement which applies to all. Therefore, I do not think that special laws, so-called bargains, need to be created, since there are laws that allow the summit to be prepared in accordance with the regulations. As I realized, there are doubts as to whether this law is compatible with European law. I've even heard Minister Szymanski say something about this. Then why put yourself in jeopardy, create new regulations of the specialty, if you can exercise the right that is? That's all I meant. It's a pity that this hasn't been taken into account, because I think that's the possibility. That's all I wanted to explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u40	I understand the senator's argument, but the committee did not share this belief and considered that the most important reason was to prepare the summit well and that this is our overriding interest in the whole process of preparation and then the summit. I just want to say that all these procedures are covered by the operation of the Central Anti-corruption Office and the institutions responsible for this. There are no restrictions or obstacles to everything being prepared well and in accordance with the principle of responsibility for the safety of our guests, as well as citizens in Poland, where the summit will take place.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u41	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. I inform you that there is a Secretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence, Minister Bartosz Kownacki. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm very brief on Senator Flork's doubts. I can tell you that with one statement from the senator, I agree with you, you were right to say that you thought you were a senator. You're absolutely right about that, you think, and the facts are like this. And you should know that as an experienced parliamentarian. . that public procurement law is not the most perfect and simplest tender procedure in our country lasts several months, and it happens that several months, if for example. Questions, appeal procedures will be included. Those are the facts. If the Government of the Civic Platform had started this bargaining procedure and today we would have finished it, it could indeed have been said that we could have prepared the summit safely. However, since this tendering procedure had not started properly earlier, today we are not able to do so in one way or another. You also asked about the unique opportunities offered by the law of public procurement, e.g. the use of classified and classified clauses. I ignore the fact that each of these modes, including the state security clause, requires appropriate procedures, the state security clause requires adequate justification etc., and this also takes a long time. Well, explain to me how you can. be classified or classified, or state security, e.g. A TV campaign? Well, however you look at it, it's not about state security. Explain to me: how can a state security clause be applied if several hundred coaches are rented? And that's the scale we're talking about in the NATO Summit. Please indicate to me how you can define a classification clause or state security when you buy meals, which will cost several million zlotys due to the scale of the project. And yet we cannot share these proceedings. And that's why we have to use a specialty. Indeed, we would prefer not to be in such a situation, but because of the facts that I have given you, that certain tendering procedures have not been initiated and the scale of the project makes it necessary to use these solutions, even when it comes to the simplest purchase. These directions, which you tried to show also in the Seym, do not qualify in any way. As I have shown, we would later compromise ourselves with the European Commission and bear responsibility for the fact that we are using completely unjustified runways. According to the case-law of the European Commission known to us, this type of contract does not qualify for exemption under Article. 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In that case, I would ask you to answer the question whether this project is compatible with European law. Besides, Minister... I know the Public Procurement Act. I've been a voivode for the last eight years, and I've used it for a lot of orders. For example, during the climate conference, which was very important, organized in Poznań, I was responsible for medical safety. And I've been able to prepare all these procedures within eight months. Of course, as you said, some orders, such as bus rentals or television campaigns, can be carried out in a normal procedure, do not need to be used here, and art. 4 (5) would only be used in situations where it is necessary, for example as regards catering. You say that catering is very important. [[Question is, it's been a minute.]] ...on a case. If we are to have representatives of 28 countries in the world, including probably the President of the United States, please do not tell me that security is not important for protection, it is not important. In my opinion, it is only a matter of interpretation of this law. So my question is whether this law is compatible with the Public Procurement Act or whether the draft law was compatible with it, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u45	Thank you very much. Minister? Could be from a point of view, I think.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u46	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, you can be... [[Microphone.]] Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! You can be resistant to arguments, but I'll give you a simple example. In the case of contracts relating to the Union threshold The catering service itself is an expense of several million zlotys, while the EU threshold This is 135 thousand euros. It is an obligation for the announcement to be published on the website from 22 to 40 days. There is no way to conduct tendering procedures with sufficient time at this point. Even if we started it in November, it's not safe to end it. I take into account the possible decisions of appeals For example, until the end of April. It's just the timing. You must accept that your political colleagues did not prepare, did not implement certain proceedings so that they would end... Of course, for several dozen or several hundred cases that would be carried out, probably 95% Or 99%, I hope, would be a success. However, it is sufficient that only one or two proceedings It wasn't a success. And there you go, how do you explain it later? The summit was well prepared, everything was arranged, but for example the buses were not rented. I would therefore appeal that we should rather seek agreement and agreement on this matter. Even such a group as Modern could see the importance of this summit. You have accepted the concept of total opposition, resistant to arguments, you do not see your negligence. I'm not saying... I don't want to judge the reasons why they're here right now. However, if you are asking about EU law, I will answer you this: there are situations where the good of lower value is devoted to the good of higher value. I understand that you would be happy if this NATO summit did not come to an end and if the government declared that it could not be carried out because the state had not prepared this summit. I just want to say one more time: it is your political colleagues who are responsible for this, and so are you. You are responsible for the fact that earlier this summit was not prepared in terms of organisation. Thus, the worse the NATO Summit is, the better it will not work for the Civic Platform in this case, because you are responsible for all these negligence. We should come in autumn this year and know that all procedures are implemented, and safely in February and in March we finish them so that we have time and be prepared for the NATO summit. Why we are in a very difficult situation, why we are preparing this specialty, ask your colleagues, not the current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u48	Minister, I have a question... Of course, I do not deny the sense of this law, there is a need for it to be passed, and in my opinion it is beyond discussion. I just have a question: did it make sense to put an art? 2 with the end date of this law? And here's the question: if it's an episode act that's going to be consummated anyway, let's call it that around the summit, i.e. After the summit of its resolution will become as if it were unobtrusive, wouldn't it be better just to give up the final date? Because in most of the orders that will be executed, they will be sort of finalised before the summit, and eventually those that would appear after the summit, because they can also be... Giving yourself a final date can be dangerous, because this is a short time, perhaps 5 or 6 days from the end of the summit. That's why I'm asking you, isn't it better to give up the article? 2, which suppresses the act of the law as if we were cutting it with an axe, according to a given date.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u49	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u50	If it is possible... The principles of legislative technique require that, in the case of an accident act, the end date should be indicated, all the more so because of what Senator Florek was raising, namely that in the case of an accident law, which will very soon be removed from the Polish legal order, its duration will be terminated... Also the amount is not de facto huge, totaling about PLN 150 million of expenditure on the NATO summit. All this means that we do not think that this situation poses any threat to subsequent proceedings before the European Commission. Therefore, this deadline is needed as much as possible. It is slightly extended beyond how long the NATO summit itself will last It's a few days later than the NATO summit is over. Because there may be certain services that will be carried out after the NATO Summit and which are linked to this summit, such as land cleaning services and securing certain elements. And that's why the deadline was so defined. And the fact that this deadline must be is also indicated by the legislative services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u51	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I, of course, do not accept your rhetoric that I would be happy, or my colleagues who are responsible for this... There is a slightly different rhetoric in the Senate than in the Seym, and we are trying to solve problems for the good of all of us, for the sake of the interests of the state, and please treat it that way. And these political statements, in my opinion, right here, when we're looking for good solutions, maybe not for today, maybe for the future, because there might be another very important event in the next few minutes... And we already know about the Pope's visit to July, the World Youth Day. So maybe you don't have to make any more specials in connection with these celebrations... Minister, I'm sure there are various reasons for this. I could say that maybe there's an exchange in the military that's bad, too, and maybe it's affecting the delay. But I don't want to get into that rhetoric. One thing is certain: of course, we must prepare this summit well. As for what you said about 95%, I'm sure 90% would've done it, and a few percent. Something wouldn't work out, of course, it's an art. Paragraph 4 (5) would be applicable as much as possible if this had not happened. But I don't want to deny it anymore and discuss it further. The fact is: this summit must be well prepared. We have another specialty, fortunately in force for a short time, until July 15th. Therefore, it is good to think that in the future, on the occasion of the next important celebrations, it is not necessary to create a specialty again. Because we already had a lot of specializations in Poland, and some deadlines, although they were to be short, are extended and such specializations last longer. So I'm not denying it, I'm just appealing for peace. This is an important meeting, it must be well secured and, of course, it follows that this special act is essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u53	Thank you very much. Minister, do you want to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u54	Thank you very much, Senator. It's really an episode act. We cannot predict today which of the proceedings would result in a failure of success Then it would be impossible to apply the State's security clause at all. That's why we have to apply it this way. I would also like to point out, Mr. Senator, that in the case of World Youth Days and the media have already repeatedly informed about this. A special act is also being prepared. And it's a much wider scope. Because, according to the knowledge that I have, in this case also some elements have not been prepared. And I agree that no matter who's in charge, no matter who's responding... we should have planned this kind of event much sooner. The state mechanism should act in such a way that even in the event of a change of government, it is possible to move on efficiently and organise any such event. Each special act is a necessary evil, we should use this kind of solution as rarely as possible, because they show that the Polish state simply does not function as we would like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u55	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't see any more requests for questioning. I therefore open the discussion. Are there any reports? No. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Are there any announcements, Senator? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u56	I would like to inform you that the meeting of the Legislative Commission on the review of the Law amending the Law on the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws, the Law amending the Law , the Civil Code, the Law on Civil Procedure and some other laws, the Act on Tax Administration and some other laws, the Senate print No 113, will be held today, 17 March, in the plenary room 15 minutes after the announcement of the interruption of the proceedings. A joint meeting of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the first reading of the draft resolution on the release of Nadia Sawchenko, member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will then be held in the same room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u57	Thank you very much, Senator. Dismissed until 1 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 58 to 13 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u58	High Izbo, resume. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Act on Officials of the Courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts, the Act amending the Law on Civil Procedure and certain other laws, the Act on Tax Administration and the Act amending the Act and consider this item as item 13 of the agenda; second reading of the draft resolution on the release of Nadia Sawchenko, member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Radio of Europe and consider this item as item 14 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. There's no objection. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Officials of the Courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts, the Act amending the Law on Civil Procedure and certain other laws, the Act on Tax Administration and the Act amending the Act [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. The text of the Act is contained in print No 113 and the report of the Commission In print No 113 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The complicated name of this law may suggest that this is about some very complex changes, and in fact all these changes are going to one thing: you have to delay entry into force. That is to say, to extend the period of vacathio legis, the changes related to the development of the IT system, which are intended to make it possible to submit applications in the perpetual accounting procedure through the IT system. This concerns notaries, notaries will have such powers. These are changes designed to improve the perpetual accounting process. The National Council of Notarials reported that this system is still being tested by users, i.e. notaries. There are some problems of an IT, electronic nature. In the case of simple applications, the system works properly, but in the case of more complex perpetual accounting applications, certain shortcomings of this system are revealed. Therefore, it is necessary to give the representatives of the National Council of Notarials time to refine this system. These are very precise actions, very important from the point of view of the functioning of the perpetual books, and therefore the shift at the time of the entry into force of these provisions is absolutely justified. As regards the work of the committee, the committee, after hearing the representative of the Ministry, unanimously decided in the vote to introduce such a shift. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u60	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? The Ministry of Justice is represented by Minister Łukasz Piebiak. Welcome, Minister. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say in a nutshell, because the law, as the rapporteur has rightly said, has a long title, and the short text, which is quite simple in terms of substance, although it may look a little more complicated in the legislative way. Justification of the essential part of the law, i.e. the provisions of the article. 3 to Article 6, is exactly what the rapporteur said, i.e. We have a system, the system is ready, but the system is not yet able to handle more difficult applications. It is known that the legal security of all citizens and of the whole business rests on the proper functioning of the perpetual accounting system. In a situation in which, pursuant to that Act, which imposed such a time limit, we would have launched the Act of 15 January 2015 and notaries would have started to submit applications for entries in perpetual books by means of an electronic system, its functioning would not have been perfect, would have suspended, refused applications without a basis, etc. This would create confusion and legal uncertainty in socio-economic relations, which must be avoided at all costs. The Ministry of Justice therefore fully supports the parliamentary project, which will help to refine the system and address these shortcomings. In the original parliamentary submission, the date of 8 September 2016 appeared. We've done everything possible. Because it's our IT department that oversees this work. In order to speed this up, these changes, which are good changes, will enter into force as soon as possible. The date of 1 July is the optimal date. In the end, the lower chamber of parliament decided to do so. I declare that we will be ready to launch with this system on July 1st. The signals of the National Notarial Council on certain imperfections have indeed been confirmed. We took them seriously. It wouldn't be important to ignore them and jump into a pool where there's no water. In addition, there are only 2 so-called. cleaning changes. One concerns the addition of the word "military" in Article. 1 in the Law on Officials of the Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office, because it was mistakenly deleted in one of the previous amendments. Same in the article. 2 We accept the change, we support the Parliamentary project to replace the appointment of the General Prosecutor's Office for the determination of the National Prosecutor's Office because it already exists. The legislative deficiencies that have emerged need to be eliminated, and therefore the parliamentary proposal also includes these 2 cleaning changes, and the main objective and function of the project are what the rapporteur presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u62	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to stay a while longer. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Bang, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u63	Minister, I'm going to ask a question that maybe goes a little beyond the scope of this bill, but because somehow I'm personally interested in this subject, and there's an opportunity for you to say a few words about it, I'm going to ask. What is the role of notary in this system? How will this improve the work of perpetual accounting courts? How will this increase marketing safety? I would be very grateful for bringing this up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u64	High Izbo, the new system is a system that assumes the transition from the existing traditional paper documentation system, i.e. notarial acts drawn up on paper, in a certain solemn manner, in the presence of a notary and parties that carry out... Then, as we know from tradition, a notary personally or someone from his firm or through the mail provides applications which are included in the notary files, namely requests for entries in the perpetual books. I'm going to court. The replacement of this traditional form of personal service, by the messenger or by means of e-mail, will obviously speed up the proceedings and the application will be in court not a few days after the act has been drawn up, but immediately. It's also obvious that this will raise the level of safety of turnover, because... well, the court will just recognize it more quickly. So what could have happened from the moment the declaration of will was made in the notarial act until the perpetual accounting court took the message... This period is shrinking, and the shorter it is, the smaller the risk is that something that could, I would say, cause a state of legal uncertainty. It's not a big change in the legal system as such. This is not a change of material law. But this is an important change from the point of view of the practice of civil law trading, including economic activity in Poland. This brings us to a higher level, and in the 21st century, that is what we should strive for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u65	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question from Senator Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u66	I too, if you don't mind, will ask you a question that goes beyond that. I don't know how much. Besides what we're talking about. It's about the entries in the eternal books. Is there such a category? How deep does it go in time because of the lack of this system? What, therefore, do you see as a temporary possibility of removing, after July 1st, a certain ballast that operates from the point of view of property rights? I am talking about this from a certain perspective, not only the perspective of the whole of Poland, but from the perspective of a specific fragment of it, that is, the western and northern lands. Is it possible for this system to make some adjustment as to the time of the completion of the perpetual books concerning the private property of Poland in these areas of the western and northern lands?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u67	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. Although it is actually quite loosely linked to what the High Senate is debating today. I'll try to answer that. The change of the system from the traditional model to the ICT model of the problem of catching up in revealing the real state of affairs in the eternal books... This attempt was made a few years ago, but it ended, let's say, with a moderate success, so I'm going to comment on it. The connection between these... Perpetual accounting procedures as a whole should, of course, accelerate, the court will probably be lightened, but more at the stage of secretarial work, i.e. unpacking this correspondence, presenting it to the referee or the judge. It's mostly referenda, but sometimes still judges... The problem of historical history is another problem, but it seems demanding, regulation. But certainly not in this bill. Of course, there's a backlog in the perpetual accountants' courts, but I'd have to collect the relevant data... I'm not prepared because it's loosely related to the subject. I'm assuming this backlog will be cleared. But the problem you're referring to isn't because you're slow. Blamed or not The courts of perpetual accountants, only because the applications are not affected. The motion isn't gonna work, the board of accountants won't recognize him, that's it, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u68	Thank you very much. Do any of you have any more questions for a government representative? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Burns.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm just a short one. I would like to refer, in a way beyond this point, where we are only talking about shifting certain provisions at the time of entry into force, to their substantive side. I am very pleased that such changes in the law occur that notaries receive such additional competences. This is a series of changes regarding the modernisation of the notary's work. The first breach was the possibility for notaries to use the electronic system of perpetual books. It's already been a huge step forward. Before this was put into effect, the notary was on paper books, on trips to court, it was known to be laborious, time-consuming. Now the notary can keep up-to-date check the state of the perpetual books, and in the electronic system you can download valid, reliable copies from the perpetual books of the same legal value as the paper ones. At the moment there is another step in improving the safety of notarial trading. It is clear, as the Minister has already pointed out briefly, that there is a stage of legal uncertainty between the moment when the notarial act was signed by the notary and its reaching the court and making the relevant mention in the court that the notarial act of specific content took place. This is the moment when, theoretically, there is a possibility that an unfair counterparty, e.g. He will return the same property several times, and there will be no mention of it in court. We are now limiting this risk, because immediately after the signing of the notarial act in the electronic system of perpetual books, there will be a mention of a specific action. So that these are changes in the right direction as much as possible, modern, aimed at improving the safety of legal trading. Keep up the good work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u70	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very short, too. I would just like to draw the attention of my colleagues to one thing. Well, the presentation made by Senator Pęk, and what the Minister said, is so confusing that this law does not only apply to the fact that there are problems with the implementation of the electronic system. Because the fact that some system might not work, we all know from experience, and no one's complaining about it. But these issues are really about art. 3, Article 4 and maybe Article. 6. Meanwhile, Minister, High Izbo, Dear colleagues, the other three points are because we adopt laws on our knees, and even the Ministry of Justice, knowing how interesting changes he has to propose to us, e.g. That we now have a national prosecutor, not a general prosecutor, etc. Well, he's not exactly in control of the material. And that's why we're correcting it. 'Cause we can, and it's not a screw-up. But if the pace of proceding is so fast, I'm sure we'll be correcting a lot thicker mistakes. And if there's more time to think about it and a little more work and peace, then we won't have to proceed with a set of laws like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u72	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any volunteers. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I'm closing the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the release of Nadia Sawchenko, a member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No 114, and the committee's report In print No 114 S. I ask the rapporteur, the chairman of the committee, Senator Sewerynski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions shall submit a draft to the High Senate for the following resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the release of Nadia Sawchenko, a member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Nadia Sawchenko is a political prisoner, kidnapped in Ukraine and for over a year and a half illegally held by the authorities of the Russian Federation. The release of Nadia Sawchenko is constantly postponed, which threatens her life, because in protest against lawlessness, the Ukrainian deputy leads the starvation. The detention of Nadia Sawchenko in prison is a blatant violation of fundamental freedoms and human rights, against which widespread protests are raised. The Senate of the Republic of Poland joins these protests and appeals to the authorities of the Russian Federation for the immediate release of Nadia Sawchenko. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u74	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur of the committee. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u75	Senator rapporteur, there seems to have been a vote at the committee meeting. Yes? What was the outcome of this vote?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u76	The draft resolution was adopted unanimously. I'll add another one. Not leaking any confidential information. That earlier this project was discussed at the meeting of both clubs. It was handed over to us, and until the last minute we corrected it together, and we unanimously accepted it. [[Thank you very much...]] [[Voice from the room: One person abstained.]] Yes, the senator is right, one senator has abstained.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u77	Professor, I have this question: what are the hopes that Mrs. Sawchenko's case will be resolved positively?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u78	Mr. Senator, both committees haven't discussed hopes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u79	Senator Pociej would like to ask a question. Yes? [[No, the senator has already corrected the information so that...]] [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, then...]] Of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u80	I privately asked myself the same question you asked Senator Jackowski, and I think everyone Even though we didn't discuss it. We hope quietly that our voice will not remain without an echo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u81	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u82	Did the committee's meeting mention whether other parliaments had taken similar initiatives?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u83	Parliament of Ukraine. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u84	Do you have any more questions for the rapporteur? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the fate of Nadia Sawchenko, an officer of the Ukrainian army, is very important, but in what happens to her, it's like... what happens to her shows what happens in the east of Ukraine at all. Russia's aggression continues in the east of Ukraine, to which Russia does not admit. However, for all observers it is obvious that this is not just political and informational aggression, that this is not just propaganda aggression. In Ukraine in April last year there were about 8 thousand Russian soldiers in several strike groups. There were about 500 Russian tanks, 500 rocket systems, S-300 anti-aircraft defense systems. There were also the latest systems that entered the Russian army's arms a year earlier or two years earlier, in 2012. The Russians claim that these weapons are separatist weapons, captured from the Ukrainian army, but the facts contradict that. During the fights around Mariupola in August last year, systems were used that were equipped only by the Russian army. And there's another thing, and it seems pretty clear now. It was found that a civilian aircraft, in which the majority of passengers were Dutch citizens, was shot down by a missile of the Russian system. Russia is doing all sorts of propaganda rackets to say that this is what the Ukrainians did, but the Dutch accident committee is not asking questions here. What happens to Nadia Sawchenko also happens to many other Ukrainian citizens and soldiers. Nadia Sawchenko was kidnapped from the territory of Ukraine, transported to Russia and the Russian court It is not known on what basis It also considers it illegal to cross the border. And here is the story of Nadia Sawchenko crossing the border of Ukraine and Russia illegally, and when she was in Russia, she turned herself in to the Russian authorities. Well, it's a story that no one seems to believe. But the Russians, the Russians, feed the Putin propaganda, believe it. And they believe that they are fighting against the nationalists of Bandera, the fascists, that again, as in World War II, they see this part of Europe from fascists. And Nadia Sawchenko is in a very difficult situation. This is a young woman who has been sitting in a Russian prison for a long time, who is constantly starving, undoubtedly threatening her health, and maybe also her life. And this is to show what the rule of law and the law in Russia look like, how you can use force without paying attention to the law, the rule of law and international agreements. Because no international agreement allows a soldier to be kidnapped from his own country to another country and brought to justice for fighting against aggression. I will remind you that a similar case was with a service officer of one of the Baltic States, who was also lured into Russia, arrested there and convicted of illegal border crossing and espionage against Russia, that is, what he was doing within the framework of his own country's structures. That is why it is good that we make such a resolution, it is good that we are dealing with Nadia Sawchenko, because the resolution applies of course to an individual woman, but the matter is much wider in nature. I stress: the issue is much broader, because what Russia does in Ukraine is that Russia takes away fragments of Ukraine Some fragments, such as the Crimea, have already broken off and then reached for Donbas and Lugansk, which she called Novorosia, are very dangerous. This is a very dangerous precedent. Let us remember that when the territory of Lugansk and Donetsk were called Novorosia, the territory of present Poland was called Priwislinski Kraj. And that's a problem that also affects us, although at the moment it's only theoretically. I support this draft resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u86	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? No. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. No speeches for protocol? The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. High Izbo, since tomorrow we will be discussing another item on the agenda, the specialty... At the meeting of the Convention, we decided that it was better to extend the session by tomorrow than to come to a separate meeting. I'm ordering a 15-minute recess right now, and then we're gonna vote all the points we've had, and then we're gonna have a recess by 12:00 tomorrow, when we're gonna consider this one bill that's gonna be in the Sejm tomorrow morning. I'm declaring a recess until 13.50. At 13.50 there will be a vote on all previous points. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 34 to 13 minutes 50]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u87	I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Resume the session, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is included in print No 110. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u88	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee unanimously adopted the draft resolution of the Senate on changes in the membership of the Senate committees at its meeting yesterday. The project is as follows. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses Senator Jan Maria Jackowski from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and Senator Marek Martynowski from the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. The Senate of the Republic of Poland elects: Senator Anna Maria Anders to the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Emigration and Communication with Poles abroad; Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to the Committee on Emigration and Communication with Poles abroad; Senator Marek Martynowski to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u89	Thank you, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. Thank you very much. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who among you is in favour of a resolution? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Thank you very much. 77 senators voted, 75 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. Thank you very much. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Penal Code and the Law on Penal Code of Enforcement. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 105 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The committee's position is that it was decided not to take account of the amendments and adopt the law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u91	Thank you very much. Is the Senator the applicant... [[Except that one amendment has been withdrawn at all.]] [[The author withdrew all of them.]] [[I mean, the author who made the amendments withdrew it.]] Does Senator Jan Rulewski want... [[Of course, that doesn't apply to me, because I haven't withdrawn my amendments.]] [[Voice from the room:...But someone can sustain.]] I see. Good. I do not see Senator Rulewski in the room, but let me remind you that Senator Jan Rulewski withdrew his conclusions: point II, amendment 1, 2 and 3 from print 105 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? No. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who among you is in favour of the bill? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 Senators voted, 79 for, 3 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and the Law on Criminal Code. We are returning to the second agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 104 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has decided to adopt a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u93	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the minority, as requested by the minority, I propose the first version The rejection of the law and if this proposal is not adopted, the vote in favour of amendments 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u95	Thank you, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion: Senator Lidia Staroń, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, Senator Margaret Budner, Senator Robert Matemov, Senator Wojciech Piech, Senator Józef Zając, Senator Michał Seweryński. I don't see any volunteers. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. Who among you is in favour of a motion to reject the bill? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 27 votes against, 53 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the request has been rejected. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee, supported by the joint committees, to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 51 votes against, 28 against and 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure and some other laws. Thank you very much. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 92 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted in favour, 84 in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 94 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 17 March, the committee considered the proposals submitted during the debate on 16 March on the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws and presented to the High Senate a position accepting amendments No 1 and 41. During the committee's work, the amendments tabled by the chairman of the committee were considered. These amendments were in line with the suggestions made at the previous meeting of the committee, tabled by the Board of Directors of the Funds and Assets. These included a reduction in the level of penalties that the regulator, the Commission for Financial Supervision, could apply. During that meeting, there was basically the consensus of the Financial Supervision Commission and the Ministry of Finance that the penalties proposed in the original draft law were too high and inadequate for the size of entities operating on the Polish market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u97	Thank you, Senator. Does the applicant senator, Mr Grzegorz Bierecki, still want to speak? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. [[Voice from the room: Can we vote in the block?]] [[We can't.]] Amendment 1 adds a definition of the concept of contact data. Who among you is in favour of this amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 2 seeks to establish the correct relationship between an alternative investment fund and an alternative investment company. Who among you is in favour of this amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 9]] I state that the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 3 aims to indicate precisely that an alternative investment company operating in the form of a limited partnership and a limited partnership may have only one partner as a capital company. Who among you is in favour of this amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, Amendment 3 was accepted. Amendment 4 correlates with the provisions of the Act. Who among you is in favour of her adoption? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 11]] I conclude that Amendment 4 has been accepted. Amendment 5 states that the provision refers to a capital company, not a limited partnership or a limited partnership whose capital company is a partner. Who among you is in favour of this amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Thank you very much. 85 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 12]] In the light of the results, I declare that Amendment 5 has been accepted. Amendment 6 seeks to clarify the rules governing the costs of the proceedings of the depositary's action against the association of investment funds. Who among you is in favour of Amendment 6? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 6 was accepted. Amendment 7 reduces the maximum financial penalties introduced in the Investment Funds Act following the implementation of the so-called. the UCTIS Directive. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 7 was accepted. Amendment 8 reduces maximum fines other than those provided for in Union directives. Who among you is in favour of this amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 8 was accepted. Amendment 9 eliminates the concept of "putting alternative investment funds on the market' from the law that raises doubts. Who's in favour of her admission? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask you senators to vote. Please state the results of the vote. 84 Senators voted in favour, and no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 9 was accepted. Amendment 10 takes into account that net assets have value and not amount. Who among you is in favour of the amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 10 was accepted. Amendment 11 adds a amending provision that eliminates the reference to a no longer applicable law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 11 was accepted. Amendment 12 adapts the calculation to the entry into the calculation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 12 was accepted. Amendment 13 takes into account that entry in the register is entitled to carry out its activities and not the register itself. Who among you is in favour of the amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 13 was accepted. Amendment 14 correlates the scope of the reference with the provision to which reference is made. Who among you is in favour of her adoption? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Marshal Borusewicz hasn't voted yet. Mr. Marshal, vote. Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 14 was accepted. Amendment 15 eliminates the reference which is misleading. Who among you is in favour of her adoption? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 15 was accepted. Amendment 16 eliminates doubts as to the date of validity of the prospectus. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 16 was accepted. Amendment 17 eliminates the apparent change. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Vote, Senators. Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 17 was accepted. Amendment 18 eliminates the part of the provision which is a repetition of another regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 18 was accepted. Amendment 19 eliminates the doubts that the country will be the issuer's home country if the issuer's securities cease to be admitted to trading on a regulated market in a previously chosen home country and remain admitted to trading on a regulated market of another Member State. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 19 was accepted. Amendment 20 takes account of the entry into force of the Restructuring Law on 1 January 2016. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 86 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 20 was accepted. Amendment 21 takes into account that the provision to which reference is made refers to prohibitions rather than obligations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Pociej, Senator Bonkowski, please... Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 86 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 21 was accepted. Amendment 22 draws up a reference in accordance with the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 22 was accepted. Amendment 23 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 86 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 30]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 24 seeks to ensure that the obligations relating to the trading of shares of public companies which will arise in the event of the disposal of shares do not include the obligation to announce calls for registration for the sale or conversion of shares of the company. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 86 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 24 was accepted. Amendment 25 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 86 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 25 was accepted. Amendment 26 eliminates the apparent change. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 86 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 26 was accepted. Amendment 27 corrects the incorrect consistency and harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 27 was accepted. Amendment 28 eliminates a wording that is of no relevance to the maximum amount of the fine. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome, Senator Klich... Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 28 was accepted. Amendment 29 seeks to ensure that the law is concise. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted in favour, 86 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 29 was accepted. Amendment 30 eliminates the internal contradiction in the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please, Senator Borusewicz and Senator Pociej... Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted in favour, 86 votes in favour. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 30 was accepted. Amendment 31 clarifies the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted in favour, 86 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 31 was accepted. Amendment 32 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And Senator Pekkis? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 32 was accepted. Amendment 33 draws up a reference in accordance with the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Chróścikowski... Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 votes against, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 33 was accepted. Amendment 34 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted in favour, 86 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 34 was accepted. Amendment 35 correlates the penalty provision with the material provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And Senator Oremski? [[I've already improved.]] Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted in favour, 86 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 35 was accepted. Amendment 36 eliminates unnecessary consistency by harmonising the way in which similar provisions are formulated. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted in favour, 86 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 36 was accepted. Amendment 37 deletes the unnecessary word. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senators Gogacz and Ryszka still... Good. Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 86 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 37 was accepted. Amendment 38 takes into account that the provision refers to a requirement and not to requirements. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 86 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 38 was accepted. Amendment 39 seeks to ensure that the temporary provision in force of the existing Regulation applies only to those Regulations which, as a result of the amendment, will cease to apply. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 votes for, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 39 was accepted. Amendment 40 correlates the formula of the provision temporarily maintained by the existing regulation with the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 votes for, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 40 was accepted. Amendment 41 seeks to eliminate doubts as to which entity is competent to implement the corrective mechanism. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 86 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 41 was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted in favour of the bill, no one opposed it, no one abstained. [[Voting No 49]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act and the Act on the functioning of cooperative banks, their association and the association banks. We return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act and the Act on the functioning of cooperative banks, their association and the association banks. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment. It's a 102 A senate print. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 86 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 50]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act and the Act on the functioning of cooperative banks, their association and the association banks. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation. A meeting of the Environment Committee took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 101 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The Environment Committee today took note of Senator Wcisło's amendments, rejected these amendments in the vote and proposed the adoption of a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Jerzy Wcisła still want to speak? I don't see... [[One thing, because...]] Oh, there you go, Mr. Senator. [[About one thing. I'd just like to improve my name.]] [[Voice from the room: Can't hear!]] Strictly, sorry, Mr. Senator. [[He's not your marshal, he's your senator. It's tight.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Quiet, please, Mr and Mrs Senators. You're welcome. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. Which one of you is... We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on the Environment, supported by the committee, for the adoption of a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 86 senators, 56 votes against, 29 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 51]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Family Benefits Act and the Law on determining and paying welfare benefits. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and obliged these committees to prepare an additional report at the current Senate meeting. It is available in print No 46 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Borowski, to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One amendment was tabled to the Senate bill. The Commission recommends adopting this amendment, if I have been able to see it, perhaps unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-senat-13-2.u101	Thank you. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicant in one person, Senator Marek Borowski, in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. The vote on the proposed amendment will first be held. Following this vote, we will proceed with the vote on the adoption of the draft law "Print No 46 S" in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on this amendment. The amendment extends the catalogue of persons entitled to receive care from persons close to the family if there is a need to provide care to another child than that to which care provision is received and the other parent is dead or avoids taking care. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 34 were in favour of the amendment, 47 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 52]] I therefore conclude that the Senate has rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft law and the draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft law, contained in print no. 46 S. The committees propose that the Senate authorise Senator Marek Borowski to represent the Senate in further work on the bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the bill? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 86 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 53]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Family Benefits Act and the Law establishing and paying benefits to carers and adopted a resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Marek Borowski to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National. I would remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a draft law in print no. 45 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Zbigniew Cichonia to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Bonkowski, please vote again. Please state the results of the vote. Thank you very much. 86 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one opposed, two abstentions. [[Voting No 54]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to present the Senate's position in further work on the project. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Public Finance Act. I would remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a draft law in print no. 73 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Mark Pęka to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask the senators to vote. Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Public Finance Act and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Mark Pęka to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 80th anniversary of the first deportation... [[Exile. It was exile.]] ...Polish people to Kazakhstan. I would like to remind you that today a draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print 108 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 Senators voted in favour, and no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 56]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the 80th anniversary of the first deportation of the Polish population to Kazakhstan. Thank you very much. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. The Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 57]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering. Thank you. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016. The National Defence Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask the senators to cast their votes. Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 62 for, 1 against, 22 abstentions. [[Voting No 58]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Law on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Officials of the Courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts, the Act amending the Law The Legislative Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 113 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 votes in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 59]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Officials of the Courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the Procedure Before Administrative Courts, the Act amending the Law on Civil Procedure and certain other laws, the Act on Tax Administration and the Act amending the Act Thank you very much. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the release of Nadia Sawchenko, a member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print no. 114 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask the senators to cast their votes. Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 81 votes in favour, no votes against, one abstention. [[Voting No 60]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the release of Nadia Sawchenko, a member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a member of the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe. I'm calling for a recess by 12:00 tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 14 minutes 36]]
