ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Mr Wojciech King, Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, Ms Elżbieta Borowska and Mr Krystian Jarubas to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members of Wojciech Król and Arkadiusz Carrot will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Wojciech Król and Krystian Jarubas. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u2	The meeting of the Public Finance Commission today will be held at 3 p.m. Ten... Excuse me, can I have another minute because I have a throat problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u3	Okay, sir. Then you'll be reading the messages in a moment. The National Defence Commission has submitted a report on the draft law amending the law on the military service of professional soldiers. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The European Union Commission submitted a draft resolution on information on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between July and December 2015. The project is print number 196. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including consideration of the matter. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Sir, are you okay with your throat? Then please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u4	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs, together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, at 3 p.m. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10, - Foreign Affairs - hour 10, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 11, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 11, - Economy and Development - h.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11.30, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 12, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 14, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 14, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 14, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 4:30 p.m., - Infrastructure - hour 18, - Foreign Affairs - hour 18. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: public health - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Support of the Polish Defence Industry - h.m. 10.30, - Lubuskie Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Parliamentary Renewable Energy Team - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Economics and social entrepreneurship - hour 13, - West Pomeranian Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: solving the problems of the so-called inhabitants. Poland-Gminna County - h.o.b. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - hour 17, - Parliamentary Scouting Friends Team - hour 5:15 p.m., - The Krkonoše-Jizera Parliamentary Team - at 3 p.m. 5:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Organization of World Youth Days Kraków 2016 - h.m. 18. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u5	Thank you very much, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question will be asked by Mrs Beata Mazurek, Ms Urszula Rusecka and Mr Bożena Borys-Szopa, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, on the draft law on State aid to raise children, i.e. the 500+ family programme, and the pace of work on this programme, addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Mr Bartosz Marczuk will answer. Please take the floor of Mrs Beata Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u6	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The 500+ family programme is a system support for Polish families, it is a program that will give the family such a powerful injection of cash for the first time since 1989. That's good, because social studies show that the main barrier to having children is the lack of stability in the material situation of the family. I hope it's the support that families get, that bad trend when it comes to natural growth, it's just gonna slow down. According to the project, parents and caregivers of children under the age of 18 will benefit from it. Each family with a minimum of two underage children will be able to receive 500 PLN for the second and the next child. For families with income below 800 PLN per person, each child will receive support, including an only child, and for families with children with disabilities the income criterion is higher and is 1200 PLN net. These are the basics of this project. We know that the public consultation is over. My question is: What are the results of this public consultation? Is there going to be any change in this program? If so, to what extent? Another thing that everyone really asks: Will this program really start on April 1st? This is, of course, related to how Parliament's work will be carried out. For me, as the person who runs the social policy committee, it's important to know when this project is really going to the Sejm. Could you tell us something about the schedule of government work and, possibly, how it will be with the payment of these benefits? Will local governments be able to prepare for this or not? This, too, has been quite loud lately, and local authorities are asking for an extension of the vacathio legis of this project. We're not hiding, we're against it. I'm interested in a government position. Do you consider this proposal from local governments or not? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Above all, it is important whether local governments can cope with the payment of the funds that families are waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u7	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by Undersecretary of State Bartosz Marczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! When it comes to issues related to what you are talking about, i.e. with a broad plan or a broad support programme, it is indeed after 1989 the first such powerful support programme for families raising children, aimed at young Poles - we care very much about them. Indeed, research shows that as we ask Poles how many children they want to have, they say they want to have far more than they have, on average over two. We've got these kids... The implementation is at 1.3. This is one of the world's lowest fertility rates, and this gap between realized and expected births is one of the largest in the world. As we later ask Poles why this is happening, they - social diagnosis, research of the Warsaw Enterprise Institute, CBOS - are telling us clearly: We are afraid for our economic future. Therefore, this programme aims perfectly for issues related to how we respond to Poles' concerns: we simply reduce these concerns. As for the assumptions, it is indeed what you say: for the second child and another, without income threshold, all families, until the 18th year of the child's life, for the first child, if it is less than 800 PLN net per person in the family, and if it is a disabled child - 1200 PLN. What are the results of the consultation? What's gonna change? Indeed, we consulted the programme very widely, not only in the standard way in which public consultations usually take place, so we sent it to social partners, to many organisations dealing with family matters, but also, as you know perfectly well, we drove around all the voivodships - Minister Elżbieta Rafalska and all the vice-ministers - we consulted this programme in voivodships. We will take a lot of things into account from this consultation, with the fact that - and this is important information on the timetable, I am about to go to it - today the project is to be dealt with by a permanent committee of the Council of Ministers and there will be settlements. I can, for example. to say that we took note - the attention came from Łódź, very concrete but also very useful - and in the article. 8, which speaks of wasting money - the point is that the municipalities can not only buy things, that is to say, provide this assistance in kind, in a situation where they come to the conclusion that there is waste - we added the word "service," meaning, in other words, the municipality will also be able to pay tuition fees or buy colonies for such a child. And now the most important, that is the timetable and preparation of local governments. As far as the timetable is concerned, as I said, today the project is already being dealt with by the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, we are after a consultation which ended on 22 January. At one of the forthcoming meetings of the Council of Ministers, the law will already deal with the government. Now prepare the local governments for payouts. That's probably the most important thing, because there's actually a lot of doubt here. That is, we believe, for at least seven reasons, that there will be no big problem, that from April 1st in local governments will start the selection of proposals. First reason: local governments already have an instrumentarium resulting from the Family Benefits Act to pay this kind of benefit, i.e. it is not a complete novelty for them, it is not necessary to place A new system, they have a computer system. Two, they get extra money for it. What the Prime Minister stressed at the joint government and local government committee meeting, that we do not give additional tasks to local governments without money. 2% , and it is included in the law, the amount that will be paid in the form of a benefit, ends up in local government accounts. Let me remind you, this year it is PLN 340 million, that is 2% from the amount of 17 billion, and next year PLN 460 million, that is 2% from the amount of PLN 23 billion, when the programme will be operational all year round. We also made a public commitment - reason number three - that we will carry out training as the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy in all voivodships. Our employees will be training local government officials to carry out this program efficiently. We're planning it for March. There will be our experts, both from the Department of Family Policy and the Department of Computer Science. Four, the bill provides that in the first period when people submit applications, they have three months to do so. If they submit these applications even in the third month, there will be an equalisation from 1 April. Hence, it can be expected that some people will not go straightaway to submit this proposal, and therefore there will be no dramatic upheaval. Five, after consulting local self-government voivodships, who were really many at these meetings, told us about about about a six-week vacatio legis when it comes to preparation. We provide in the Act, as you know, a minimum month, which may turn out to be approx. Fifty-six weeks. The position of the joint government committee is about 3 months. Hence the date of 1 July is a date in quotes, euphemistically speaking, and not even euphemistically, violated, because even if we predict, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the bill will come into force or will be published at the end of February, then 3 months from that they give us March, April, May, and not July 1. It doesn't go out in any way on July 1st. And the last word, in the article. The 43th Act provides that after a week of publication of the Act, and not the entry into force of the Act, local governments will already receive money for preparation, so it will not be so that local governments will only get money for preparation from 1 April. From here we acknowledge, we hope... Of course, when we treat local governments as partners, we realize that we have to work very, very hard with them here. They will bear the burden of implementing this law. But we think the date of 1 April is the date when the selection of applications can start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u9	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask an additional question to Mrs Ursula Rusecka. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u10	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. Already regarding the details of the law itself. We know that there is great concern in society about the use of these measures. Is there a solution in the draft law prepared by the Ministry which explicitly provides for verification of the use of the benefits paid? Wouldn't it be that it's optional to evaluate a social worker? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u11	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! We anticipate in the article. 8 in the event of a waste of funds, the possibility of payment of this aid either in the form of a provision in kind or, as I mentioned earlier, in the form of services. This is the result of our consultations. In the following articles... Art. 15 says that the municipality, when it has information about waste, will conduct an environmental interview, except that it will not be the broad environmental interview which is in social assistance, but the regulation will determine which parts of this environmental interview will be taken into account. We come from such an axiological assumption that the best friends of children are parents. And there's no reason to assume that, as a rule, parents behave irrationally or pathologically toward their own children. There's confidence in the citizens. This is an elementary reason why social policy is also being pursued. But, of course, we're putting on a safety valve like this, this art. The eight I've already described. I will remind you that this article also works in family benefits, such a principle has been active in family benefits since 2004 and it does not cause any huge controversy. Here, of course, we are dealing with weighing two values. On the one hand, what I said, trust in citizens and issues related to the fact that officials should not have a paternalistic character to control everything in their families. The family is actually the basis of the nation's existence, and it is difficult for officials to enter very deeply here. On the other hand, the second issue is, of course, public money, and this is a question of some risks. We do not close our eyes to the fact that there is a part of dysfunctional families, and therefore we leave this safety valve behind, but we recognise that it will be used in emergency situations. As far as practice is concerned, because the payout is done by the municipalities, they already have families on the radar where they may have some dysfunctions. We are not afraid that this provision is being overused here. These are small local environments. These people just know each other and identify themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u13	Thank you. Madams who are asking the question still have time, so I would ask you very much to fill in the question by Mrs Boris-Raccoon. Just please be able to fit in at the time that you have left, my lady.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u14	Of course, thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, The 500+ programme, which is scheduled to start on 1 April, will undoubtedly need different types of implementing acts. I wanted to know what the schedule for these implementing acts was. And the second topic - 2700 thousand. families will be covered by this programme. Undoubtedly, the flow of information between the Ministry and individual municipalities will be extremely important. Do you have it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] any signals that might be disturbing about the execution of this, possibly in these first stages? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u15	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as implementing acts are concerned, we will, of course, try to prepare these acts as soon as possible in accordance with the good legislative procedure, but we must also bear in mind that when we write such an implementing act, we should at least know what the final form of the act is. That is why we will probably start this work just after the Council of Ministers has adopted the law and we will continue it according to the speed of Parliament's work. But, of course, our intention is [[♪ The bell ♪]] prepare these acts as soon as possible. With regard to issues related to whether the municipalities are already signalling any doubts, as I explained, the basic issue is the matter of vacathio legis. I already told you that. They suggest a 6-week vacathio legis. That's what came up in the consultation. Around 3 months are mentioned in the Joint Government and Government Committee. I think that a reasonable compromise, which is probably needed here, with our support for the municipalities that we declare - these trainings and explanations, and with regard to issues related to substantive assistance, this reasonable compromise is 5 and 6 weeks. It's gonna be a time that's gonna be enough. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Members Tomasz Piotr Nowak and Paweł Arndt, the Civic Platform Club, on the development of geothermal energy in Poland on the example of geothermal water deposits in Konin and Kole, war. Wielkopolska. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, Minister Mariusz Gajda, will answer. Mr Piotr Nowak will be the first question to be asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! COP 21 in Paris - betting on geothermals is a good decision. In Konin in 2015 it was drilled into geothermal waters with country record parameters: 97°C, the highest temperature of geothermal water in the country, 150 m/h - such are resources. Physicochemical research is talking about highly mineralized water. So there are questions. We have a well, which was made for 15 million PLN from the program of energy use of geothermal resources, with 50% grant from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Now we're looking for money for a second borehole - an overwhelming borehole. There is a question about the possibility of raising funds from a national fund or, if you think of geothermals as leading in the country, from a dedicated government program for injection. We are also looking for money for investments related to the use of this resource. Where are we looking? In the "Infrastructure and environment' programme, under the 1.1. task, i.e. high-efficiency cogeneration - measures dedicated to the construction of a power plant, or the 1.4 task. - measures dedicated to renewable energy sources. It's a matter of building a power plant. Other issues, on the other hand: balneology, recreation, we would like to consider as a commercial activity or to look for resources under operational programmes. Hence the question: How and when will these programs be announced, e.g. The Operational Programme Infrastructure and the environment, and will these programmes be high-ranking geothermal sources? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The second thing is the City of Circle. And here's the source of geothermal water. The mining hole should also be made on the same principle as in Konin so that there is power of the city over this opening and that any other activities, already commercial, are carried out, but while maintaining the power of the city over the mining hole. The question is therefore: Will the programme continue in the national environmental fund and is this programme within the reach of cities such as the Circle?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u19	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am so glad that this question has been asked. Indeed, as Minister Szyszko said at the Paris conference, geothermal is a great opportunity for Poland, a great opportunity in terms of the use of renewable energy sources. It is a pity that a country from the Civic Platform 8 years ago stopped the development of Toruń geothermals, because we would already have much more experience. What I'm trying to say right now is that the whole geothermal program is going to be re-created. It will be completely apolitical and will serve to use this warmth primarily for the people, for the inhabitants. It can therefore be said that some programmes will be set up for the comprehensive use of these geothermal sources, but above all for heating purposes. As you have said, they will be programmes for those who will use geothermal sources for heating purposes. It can't be that there's only going to be these sources. for aquaparks. Such parks will, of course, be able to be created if this heat is sufficient, but it is generally about heating targets. At the moment we are working on special programs not only related to search, but also to exploitation, because so far, as you know perfectly well, there was a programme that was subsidised in 50% or sometimes in 70%. only and only geothermal recognition. So these were test holes, but there was no provision for injection holes. It's kind of a closed system. It is based on the fact that geothermal water is drawn - they have, as in Konin, high parameters, I have heard that even above 100°C, the Member spoke of 95°C - then through heat exchangers this heat is returned to heating networks, and then, because this water cools down, it is crowded back into the aquifer. It's important to remember, too. That we can't dredge up aquifers. The aquifer layers are extremely important not only from the point of view of geothermals, but also from the point of view of the water resources of the country, because Poland, fortunately, has good deposits of groundwater, which are used primarily to supply the population with water. As far as certain details are concerned, I would like to say that yesterday there was a meeting at the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management on the comprehensive use of geothermal sources. We would like to support, above all, local authorities, as I said earlier, in the comprehensive use of these sources. Here, which I stress once again, it is primarily intended to serve people. Poland has really very rich resources. With regard to operational programmes, in the axis, there is a sub-measure under Action 1.1.1 called: Support for investments in renewable energy generation, including the connection of these sources to the distribution and transmission network. This is where geothermal energy projects with a capacity above 2 MWt should be supported. However, the Ministry of Development has not yet decided on the entity implementing these sources. We would like it to be a national fund, because the national fund has resources from other sources, including so-called substitution fees, which in cogeneration with these EU funds could support these larger programmes. So that we anticipate very strong support. We would like to launch pilot programmes as soon as possible to show other local authorities what the possibilities of using geothermal energy sources are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Paweł Arndt. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We will certainly agree that Poland needs renewable energy sources and energy from geothermal sources. As the Minister said: Poland has good geothermal conditions and we should use it. Of course, our conditions are not as good as in Iceland, for example, where the share of geothermal energy in total energy is above 26%. Either way, what we have, we should try to use it. Konin and Circle are good examples of the fact that these are good conditions, and you have to help these cities. The Minister spoke about the fact that the National Environmental Fund is trying to find solutions that will help, inter alia, in such cases. But I would like to ask if this will happen in a short time, because these cities are waiting - probably not only in Poland, but many, many others. I would also like to ask: Does the national environmental fund foresee that it will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] Donations, or that it's a loan? Will the national fund's share not be more than 50% What's it been like so far?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u23	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u24	Thank you very much for this additional question. We anticipate that this program will be launched within the next two months. This is the first case. Here's the other thing. I would also ask from this point of view that the appropriate proposals to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management should now be addressed by these local authorities, which are interested in this, i.e. the city of Konin and the city of Koło, to present a slightly larger action plan, that it is not only about the opening itself, but also about a certain concept of using these sources together with some financial calculations. These financial calculations will show this space whether these actions require support for grants or loans, because I ask you to bear in mind that the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management does not have inexhaustible financial resources and must carry out these activities in such a way as to help on the one hand various types of projects and, on the other hand, not to lose this base for further action. So a financial evaluation will be carried out. These are quite easy calculations, i.e. showing what in perspective, e.g. 10 years will be the revenue of the city, because there will be, of course, heating charges, which cannot be higher than from classic energy sources. This difference in this system could be financed in an appropriate way, already established by professionals, by economists, so as to help, on the one hand, and on the other hand, not to lose the liquidity of the national fund, because I suppose if these actions succeed, they will be next. We would like this to be created as soon as possible and in the next 2 and 3 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u25	Minister, only, if I may, an additional question. If you already have a mining hole, can you aspire, just try to get an injection hole in this program?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u26	Yeah, of course I do. It will also be financed when it comes to an embossing hole, because so far it has been so that there was money only for mining holes, and the embossing holes were not, which meant that there was recognition, but there was no further action. So it was kind of a national fund that took a certain risk, if there was even this geothermal water, but she was still there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] couldn't be used. So that we want to solve this really comprehensively.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u27	Thank you, Minister. The next question will be asked by Members Paweł Grabowski and Agnieszka Ścigaj, Kukiz Club15. The question is about the decision on flood protection in Brzeg, Opolskie voivodship, and is addressed to the Minister of Environment. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Minister Mariusz Gajda will answer. I ask you to ask Mr Paweł Grabowski for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I would like to ask you a question on which the nature of the problem can be illustrated by the very mode of asking this question, because initially this question was addressed to the Minister of Development, and it concerns the issue of the construction of flood protection in the Bank of Opole. In the end, it turns out, at least that's what the Sejm Office says, that the recipient should be the Minister of the Environment, so I am asking you this question. At what stage is the decision of the Opole voivode to consider the appeal against the decision by which the property was expropriated in order to build flood protection on them? This is about the Bank, specifically about Rataje's estate. And now the whole problem is, that's the point of the case, that since this decision, the voivodeship has been made three, as far as I know, appeals and they concern property that are not inhabited. Now it is up to the Minister of the Environment to decide these appeals and, more interestingly, we are really the only ones waiting for the resolution of this case, because the content of this decision, that is to say, whether or not this appeal is taken into account, will not affect whether or not the flood protection will be built. As it so happens that these three properties lie in such a place that, even if the Minister of the Environment had decided to take account of the appeal, this shaft could be created, and possibly on those properties for which the appeal would have been lodged effectively, it could be created, so to speak, an ad hoc security, because it is more than certain, because this is the characteristic of the region concerned by the protection, that the flood will appear there sooner or later. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u29	Please take the floor of Minister Mariusz Gajda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I'd like to correct some things. Namely, it is not the Minister of the Environment who is the appeal body for these decisions, but the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. And cancellations, what's in there... Of course, because this was a question addressed to the Minister for the Environment, we asked the Minister for Infrastructure and Construction to give us information so that I could fully answer the Member as far as possible. The case of these appeals is to be settled by 29 January. As for the substance, it is difficult for me to say whether they will be taken into account or not, of course, it is the decision of the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Nevertheless, the decision to permit construction, because this is the case for building permits, not water law permits, only construction permits issued by the Opole Voivodeship have immediate feasibility. So even if these appeals are filed right now, you can do robots, you can do them. Probably this is the mode that they will possibly be included not in the form of such - because this is a special act Like the Road Special Act, it is likely that it will not be possible to do works there, but it is probably about, as usual, some money, the amount of redemption, the amount of compensation. On this occasion I would like to tell you here that the city of Brzeg is, unfortunately, a case in the pill which shows how in Poland there are unordered flood protection cases. Because it is also spatial planning in one resort, flood shafts led by the marshal, by the provincial management of melioration and water equipment, in turn when it comes to the river itself, there should also be renovated these flooring devices, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Environment. And here I still have - and I will give it to you later - details about the Bank. Here the main problem is the part of the city - the district of Rataje and the so-called area. islands where it is located, among others. waste water treatment plant where industrial sites are located. In order to ensure the protection of these areas, it is recommended to build a Brzezina polder, and of course to complete the construction of the Racibórz tank, because this tank will significantly reduce the flood wave, which would possibly take place. And here all these activities, which are foreseen by the management board of drainage and water equipment, as well as by the Regional Water Management Board in Wrocław, are included in flood risk management plans, which is legally sanctioned, while - as usual - problems are in financing, because these are real tasks... In total, as if to count all these things associated with it, aside from the tank in Raciborz, it is about PLN 100 million for full protection of the Bank against flooding. It's like, you can say, 100 percent is never there, because nature is nature and you never know what's going to happen - 90% security. That's the amount. Of course, we will try to get that kind of money, but I cannot promise when it will be, because at the moment there is also a loan from the World Bank, from the Council of Europe Development Bank, for this protection from the flood. This is, you can say, as much as PLN 1 billion, but this is only PLN 1 billion in terms of national needs reaching some tens of billion zlotys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski. [[Thank you. I'm not gonna ask.]] Thank you very much. Then let's move on to the next question. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz from the Modern Club asks about the list of medicines reimbursed. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Krzysztof Łanda will answer. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u32	Several hundred zloty subsidies or discontinuation of treatment - unfortunately such consequences for small patients after transplants brought a new refund list. It is worth noting here that the problem concerns small patients who have already been through a lot, namely very difficult organ transplant operations, and will have to take immunosuppressive medication for the rest of their lives. The source of the problem is the registration of the reimbursement list, which concerns two basic immunosuppressive medicines. According to experts, one of these medicines is not refunded in the form of a suspension to allow young children to be given. There's pills. The Ministry of Health has already been asked this once, also by the media, there was no answer here, how to give the infant a tablet. The second medicine, which is available without additional payment, is only available in a prolonged version. It is a medicine that has not been tested in children and has not been authorised for treatment in children at all. Thus, parents who want to take these medicines, which are at the lowest level of payment, will be forced either to take the tablets to infants or to take medicines that have not been authorised for treatment in children. And here are my two questions. I would like to ask: Is the Ministry of Health going to correct this error in the list of medicines refunded, in particular by separating valgancyclovir as a powder for oral solution to a separate group of medicines, a separate limit group, based on Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3rd Refund Act? And if so, will the announcement of this decision be immediate, which would bring significant relief for small patients, or only with the entry into force of the new refund list, which is only a month away? In addition, I would like to obtain information on which internal procedures the Ministry of Health intends to introduce in order to prevent similar situations with subsequent changes in the list of medicines reimbursed, i.e. situations where after entry into force of the new [[♪ The bell ♪]] just editing the Ministry of Health notice some patients are suddenly deprived of access to therapy at an acceptable price in the absence of equivalents. And what I'm talking about here is whether there's going to be some particular audit that will actually lead to a situation where replacements will be introduced exactly in line with previous drug indications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u33	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Minister Krzysztof Łanda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u34	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I answer briefly, starting with the fact that both of these topics are now, in fact, resolved by the Ministry of Health. And I would also like to stress that absolutely no mistakes have been made in this respect, and I am explaining why. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is about two medications. One medicine is indeed an immunosuppressive medicine, while the other medicine, the international name of which is valgancivir, is an antiviral medicine. As far as the first drug - tacrolimus is concerned, the decision was made here, as was the case with the other drug - I wanted to remind you - for the previous management of the resort, and so also under the authority of the Minister Prof. Zembala. On the other hand, both decisions have been taken correctly, in our view. Ladies and gentlemen, post-transplant patients have never been at risk, either in one or the other, because there are many different levels of treatment in the tacrolimus group. Indeed, the current Refund Act does not allow the Minister of Health to behave differently than in such a way that if there is a request for a cheaper medicine which allows to maintain the same level of active substance in the blood at a lower cost, then the Refund Act does not allow any decision other than that which has been taken. On the other hand, I can assure you that yesterday, negotiations have ended, which will lead to very important changes, and indeed these medicines will be more accessible to patients from 1 March, i.e. with the announcement of a new notice. Unfortunately, I can't, I'm sorry, but I can't reveal the details to you because it has to affect us. from the manufacturer a formal application, without which I simply cannot announce such things. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I say again: patients were always protected, including those who had had a heart transplant, and small patients, because in this group there are other two preparations that have been registered after heart transplant and for small patients, for children. Therefore, there was no need to pay several hundred zlotys or stop treatment at all. These medications, these two medications I'm talking about, they're still there. The payment to them was on average about 10 and about 19 PLN per month of therapy. This situation has therefore never occurred. On the other hand, if you are concerned with valgancivir, which is an antiviral medicine, you have previously been treated with tablets, and they are indeed the only ones available. In fact, the suspension for oral suspension is on the list of medicines refunded exactly from 1 September 2015. Children were also treated with this substance before when only the tablet was available. The tablet can be prepared, the tablet can be crushed, the suspension prepared and used previously, including in children. So just as before, before 1 September 2015, there was no problem with this, just as at the moment there should be no problem. But, ladies and gentlemen, good news again. We have concluded negotiations with the producer of this medicine, which has an oral solution, and, ladies and gentlemen, the medicine will be available under very affordable conditions. I'll wait again to announce this decision. However, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to these negotiations and thanks to these events which took place, the National Health Fund and in one case, and in the other case it will have huge, tens of millions of zlotys of savings, without any risk to patients or any increase in subsidies, if only patients would like it and doctors prescribed those medicines that were available, for a lump sum or with a minimum fee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the Member ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u36	Yes. An additional problem is the practical issue, namely the lack of physical availability of these drugs in pharmacies. Many patients claimed that it is simply not possible to buy these medicines, and therefore to buy those medicines that have this lowest level of pay is practically impossible. [[Voice from the hall: Also after the tall ones. I had such heights.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u37	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u38	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid you're based on press reports... [[Member of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Yes, with representatives of patient organizations...]] ...and I have, first of all, at this moment reliable data related to our actions, the department of drug policy, which checked the availability of drugs in pharmacies, secondly, I have here a declaration that I received yesterday regarding the secure supply of these drugs that set a limit in the tacrolimus group. I have this data - the drug is available in pharmacies. I will tell you more, there are its large stocks in wholesalers and, moreover, there is a declaration of a large security of this drug on the market. If there is any reliable information about the absence of one or the other medicine, please contact the Ministry for information indicating specific pharmacies where this drug is missing and we will, of course, answer you in writing, honestly. I don't have any information that these drugs are missing right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u39	Thank you very much. [[I briefly...]] But thank you very much, sir. [[Sure, I don't have a vote.]] Yeah, I'm afraid so. The next question will be asked by Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Lech Sprawka and Mrs Marzena Machalek from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question is about the worrying phenomenon of the decline in the number of vocational school pupils and the correlation between vocational training and labour market demand. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Education. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Teresa Wargock, will answer. Please, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Some time ago, there was a theory in Poland that almost all the yearbooks of young people leaving school should continue their studies in higher education. This led to the fact that today about 80% The year ends in a 3-year or 5-year study, which in turn led to the fact that in many tech professions there is a shortage of people who are qualified. This is, of course, also related to the situation of vocational schools, primary schools and technicians, where the number of pupils is gradually decreasing. Although the Ministry of Education under Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska's rule has recently announced one of the years of school year of vocational schools, the situation has not changed in principle, on the contrary, the number of pupils in vocational schools is definitely decreasing. Hence the question to the Minister: Does the current government note the problem of vocational education, the number of pupils? Is he going to take any action that would change this very negative trend, a trend that is also noticed by entrepreneurs who have problems finding workers on the Polish labour market? On the one hand, we have such a paradoxical situation that a large proportion of young people leave Poland in search of work, and on the other hand, Polish employers cannot find workers, especially those at lower and middle levels. Can this problem be resolved in the near future and what action is the Ministry going to take on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u41	Thank you very much, sir. Please address Minister Teresa Wargocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of vocational training in Poland is a long-term problem. There are very slow changes in this area, but for some good years the most important thesis that has been changing as the objective of vocational training reform has been to adapt education in schools to the labour market. But I will refer to this issue, which shows the facts from which the Member began asking questions that the Polish education system had drifted towards general education for some time, putting aside the decision of young people to pursue their profession for years later. This problem was caught at the right time. I think that we can now talk about some indicators that say that although the number of children and young people of school age in Poland is steadily decreasing, the number of students choosing to study in techniques or basic vocational schools is increasing. I'm only going to use one general indicator to not prolong it, it's an 8% indicator. In the 2006/2007 school year, in techniques and basic vocational schools, she started to study 47,5% Junior high school graduates, and in September 2015 55.5%. A trend has been broken. I think that students and, above all, their parents learned from the fact that general education, which a large number of young people had chosen a few years ago, was very inefficient. Vocational training is currently facing huge challenges. In the legal system, in the education system law, in other professional regulations, we are prepared to train staff in a quite flexible way for the labour market. The main problem facing us, the problem to be solved, is that the economic sector should take part in the responsibility for vocational training. First of all, there must be a very clear signal from the market in which to educate. Even what we now have, available labour market research, deficit professions given six months after the survey, is too late a signal to organise vocational training well. The second thing is the basis for learning the practical profession, which is with each employer, while it generates very high costs in the education system, if we want to equip workshops with high-quality equipment. The third major problem in the vocational education system is the pedagogical staff. School heads report a very large deficit in this area. I had a meeting with school principals yesterday. They say that most of our teachers, our examiners, are retired teachers. This is a huge challenge, also for vocational education and for the Minister of Education, to train teachers for vocational training. A huge problem is also the fact that the image of vocational training in Poland has been destroyed for many years. The biggest deficit in terms of student interest in vocational training concerns vocational primary schools which provide skilled labour and service staff for the market. And, ladies and gentlemen, here's only about 5%. junior high graduates take up work, study in basic vocational schools, and that is really a huge problem. If we do not raise the ethos of physical work, if we do not restore personal dignity to people who perform simple professions, we will really have a situation that we will only be able to count on migrants. These are the challenges we face for the time being. There are models of vocational training in Europe that are effective. The most indicated by experts is the German model. In fact, every student who goes to a vocational school already has a patronage in the form of an enterprise, an employer, a craftsmanship. There's the biggest connection between the student and the employer. There is the shortest period of job search from the time of graduation to [[♪ The bell ♪]] start of first employment. There are models that we can use, but we also need to realise that vocational training is a really costly education. And I think... Just a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u43	You're welcome. State Secretary at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: ...that also in our situation, in the situation in Poland, we must appeal for better vocational training not only to employers, but also to certain sectors, economic sectors, to ministries in the economic sphere, so that they wish to participate in this part of practical training. Thank you, Minister. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, additional question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister, first of all, is pleased that the Ministry notes the problem and wants to take action to change this situation, while I have more specific questions. In this connection, will the Ministry adopt a national policy on practical training centres? So far, local authorities have decided what to buy, what to invest in, and there was no directional action from the Ministry. Will that change? Are there any plans to take measures to address this problem as a whole? Secondly, what is the Ministry going to do to fill in the generation gap that actually appears among teachers of the profession? Will there be any additional means for these teachers, especially in the emerging professions, those that force the market today - forcing them to appear - to go to schools and educate in those professions that are really needed? And the last piece. Some teachers note the need to change the practical exam. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will there be any action on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u45	Thank you, sir. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u46	I think this is really a subject for a separate debate - or at least for information on current issues - in the Sejm, as I ask. Is there a national policy in this area? We analyze such a solution in order to transfer the decision on education in individual professions to the level of voivodship, i.e. regional level. There are development strategies for voivodships, where the country's development strategy is implemented. There should be a vision in which professions, in which directions we should educate young people. Here we also see the role of education curator in the opinion of the competitions in which the school will educate in the area of a given voivodship. As far as practical training centres are concerned, the situation is very similar, but at the moment the money to equip practical training centres is at the level of programmes in the regions. There is also money to buy equipment: approx. 20% This pool must be used to equip practical training centres and studios. The voivodship government should have developed - these are the recommendations of the Ministry - a strategy for the development of vocational education and only in accordance with this strategy should the funds be directed to local governments, mainly district governments. Will there be changes in the practical exams? For the moment, I can answer this question in a general way. The assumption is general: the external examination in vocational training must be maintained and maintained. Everything that connects with his organization, with the time of these exams, is absolutely to be discussed during the debate that we start in the first half of this year. Certainly, vocational education issues will be very clearly defined and discussed there. I understand that we have a proposal for consultation, but we want to consider this consultation as a presentation of our own proposals. First of all, I stress the great openness to the proposals of those who pursue vocational training and are at the moment the best reviewers, because they participate in this part as practitioners. The subject is really very complex. I think I -- I shared that opinion yesterday. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with experts in this area, today with you - in fact, some solutions would have to be carried out at two levels. The first level is the next few years: What to improve? What can be done? But we also need to think about this level of the concept of vocational training, which requires strategic thinking and links with those directions which Mr Morawiecki spoke about, and the economic development of Poland. This is a really difficult and long debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u47	Thank you very much, Minister. The next Members asking the question are Mr Sławomir Nitras and Mr Paweł Olszewski, the Civic Platform Club. This is a question about relocation of military units in Poland - to the Minister of National Defence. Minister Bartosz Kownacki will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence. The first question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u48	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! This question was asked mainly by Minister Macierewicz's public statements. I would like to quote one, from 4 January this year, from the Polish Armed Forces: We want to create three territorial defence groups on our eastern border, together with a shift in this direction of the already existing Armed Forces. We do not want the army to be focused on the western border, almost as in 1989. I honestly admit that the comparison of the current state, also the location of the Polish Army, until 1989 was very astonishing, because the changes that have taken place in the army since 1989, also in terms of where the troops are located, are huge. Just look at how many bases are closed in the west of Poland. I think the Minister of National Defence should know how these changes took place. I will also remind you that when last October I spoke publicly about the fact that you have such plans, among others. Mr. Marshal Brudziński was dementing, saying that the coalition or the Law and Justice had no such plans. Today it turns out that this is one of the basic elements of your plans - relocation of the Polish Armed Forces to the east. I am a elected Member of the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. I am asking a question with Mr Olszewski, who is from Bydgoszcz. Szczecin and Bydgoszcz are two of the most important cities in terms of NATO-Wskie plans in terms of headquarters of units in Poland. That's why we're worried. My questions: Can you assure us that the current structure of the three divisions located in Szczecin, Żagań and Elbląg will be preserved? Do you foresee any significant interference in their structure? Do you have an analysis of the costs and benefits of strategic relocation of troops east? Do these costs take into account the need to create complete infrastructure - bases, facilities, airports, specialist hospitals? Do you analyze the structure of the deployment of troops in the similar size of NATO member states? Do you, for example? Knows that the headquarters of all German divisions are located in central Germany and really reflects the no longer existing German border? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For example, in France, on the 16th Brigade, 8 is located at the border with Belgium, Germany, Italy and 4 in the center of the country. Aren't you afraid that relocation will practically prevent cooperation within NATO's integrated structures? And finally. We have information about the creation in Poland of 5 American bases, warehouses: in Łask, Drawsk Pomorskie, Skwierzyn, Choszcznie and Ciechanów. Only Ciechans are located in the east, the other cities are in the west. Aren't your plans really ideologically motivated? Or are they caused by practical experience? Thank you kindly. Thank you, Marshal, for your patience and understanding.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u49	Thank you, sir. Minister Bartosz Kownacki will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Perhaps at first I will remind Mr Art. 26 Constitution, which defines the tasks of the Armed Forces, which are to uphold the indivisibility of the entire territory of the Republic of Poland and the protection of its borders. And contrary to what you say, unfortunately, for the entire 25 years this dislocation of troops in Poland looked so that most were prepared before 1989 to attack from the west of Europe and it was not changed after 1989. I do not know whether Members of the Civic Platform, politicians of the Civic Platform, who have been responsible for this situation for eight years, had some of the offensive plans for Germany or perhaps were afraid of an attack from Germany - some German phobia. Therefore, these units were also stationed there after 2000 while in the east of Poland, to the east of the Vistula there were virtually no units. According to our assessment, the threat that arises today is in the east and north of Poland, not in the west. Perhaps the Civic Platform had a different assessment. I would also ask you, Mr President, to remind you that Members are obliged and pledge to the nation. It is worth that they rise above the horizons of the councilman, for example the most beautiful city in Poland. Because strategic interests of Poland are not always the same here. I will not refer and evaluate the situation of military dislocation in France or Germany, because I would like to point out that neither France nor Germany are border countries of the North Atlantic Alliance, so the dislocation of troops in these countries may look in a different way than that in Poland. You also said in this question - it did not stand out here, but in writing - that we are NATO members, so we can count on the support of our allies. [[Right.]] Well, it's as if you understand NATO's mechanism of action and art. 5, you would be aware that Poland, in order to be able to count on the support of our allies, must have a chance to defend itself for several, maybe several days, in the most optimistic scenario. Our historical experiences in recent centuries indicate that these threats, as I said, may be in the east, in the Podlasie gate or in the Smolensk gate, or in the Belarusian gate. It is worth noting that between the eastern border of the Republic of Poland and Warsaw, i.e. the capital or state, there is no military unit, no serious, important military unit. [[Białystok, Siedlce.]] These units, which are, are able to complete, which does not allow any real defensive action. This is the situation east of the Vistula. This is the result, among others. Government action over the last 8 years. This does not mean, however, that we want to make changes that would be to the detriment of individuals that are linked to NATO. This situation can be resolved in several ways. Firstly, by setting up territorial defence units, as we have been talking about for a long time. They must first be established in the east and north of the country. This is the first possibility. The second thing is to form new units. We are assuming an increase in the number of Armed Forces, because it is one of the lowest in Europe today. Another issue is to increase the completion of those units that are located in the east of the country, because, as I said, they are in such a state that today it does not allow any defensive action to be taken. Finally, the fighting potential of those units that are in the east of the country can be strengthened, as well as priorities for the equipment of those units. This will not be to the detriment of units from Szczecin, Bydgoszcz or Elbląg. You also mentioned in your letter about infrastructure problems in the east of the country that there is no infrastructure there, which generates serious costs if we would at least like to form individuals in the eastern part of the country. In fact, for the last eight years, this infrastructure has been robbed, stolen. It's an appeal to you to settle your party colleagues. Why did it happen that those military units or infrastructure facilities, which were even after reducing the completion... Why was it stolen? [[Details.]] I hope you can explain that. If you don't, we're gonna have to do it. Once again, in conclusion, I would like to stress that there is no threat to any units, especially units from Szczecin. There was also a question about Bydgoszcz, there is no danger in this regard. Moreover, I would urge that, in terms of state security, and especially cooperation with our allies, not even think about sending out unreasonable signals that might call into question our credibility as an ally. Well, these entities have very serious tasks within NATO and I would ask you not to scare the public and, by the way, not to scare our NATO partners with any changes in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. I think that if the Minister, speaking of the most beautiful, one of the most beautiful cities in Poland, was referring to Szczecin, then both I and Mr Nitras are very grateful to the Minister. [[Yes, sir. I'm grateful, too.]] Before I give the floor to Mr Paul Olszewski, I would like to inform the High House that we are hosting young people from Primary School 289 at the gallery today. [[How? 289, but from where?]] Greetings to our guests. In view of the above, I would ask that the additional question take into account this pacifist element - in relation to the youth who is watching us here today. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u52	With all due respect, Minister, there's nothing to discuss about ally credibility in the context of what you've done with the counterintelligence center and how you've strained our relationship with these actions. Nor will I appeal to these ideological terms about phobias, because as many phobias as there is in your government: anti-German, anti-Russian, etc., it is a shame to say. On the other hand, on the other hand, Minister, I am glad that you are the recipient of this question, because you are not a native Bydgoszczian, but you are chosen from Bydgoszcz. In the context of what Mr Nitras said, and the attempt to relocate troops within the territory of the Republic of Poland, I have a question about JFTC, the NATO Joint Forces Training Centre, which is located in Bydgoszcz and is supported by 1. The Pomeranian Logistics Brigade. Is it in this area, in this area? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you have plans to make localizational changes, especially considering that this center is very rooted within the former Pomeranian Military District? Are these plans that Minister Macierewicz spoke about also relevant to this unit?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u53	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u54	Mr. Marshal, however Szczecin is indeed one of the most beautiful cities in Poland, it is also Bydgoszcz...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u55	Of course. State Secretary at the Ministry of National Defence Bartosz Kownacki: ...is one of those cities. With regard to our ally's credibility and the centre of expertise, it could say something to you and to my colleague in the district, Mr Brejza. I know that you are crying about the fact that unfortunately already officers, active officers of the special forces will not be able to prepare an interpellation for the opposition, but it seems that these tasks should not have special services in Poland, as well as should not, for example, be able to watch cartoons for children in Russian. This was done by experts from the centre, Polish experts. On the other hand, regarding the JFTC, sir, I would like to reassure you. I am also, as you mentioned, an MEP from Bydgoszcz, so this case is particularly on my mind. There are no risks in this regard, there are no plans to change it. We highly value the JFTC, we are proud to be Members of Bydgoszcz, but everyone, as Poles, that this center is in Poland and fulfills its tasks. Please be calm, there will be no changes in this area. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The next Members to the question are Robert Telus, Piotr Polak and Dariusz Bąk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question on the Minister of Agriculture's regulation on the health of wild boars is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. You will answer the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Krzysztof Jurgel. Please, Mr Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! For many years now, farmers have been reporting to our offices with such a fundamental problem, which is, this is hunting damage, damage done by animals, and especially by wild animals. This is a problem, especially with this ASF disease, which covered part of our country's territory, very serious. Farmers lose many of their crops, their crops, and this is unfair to them. It is not fair that these animals, animals, and especially wild animals, are roaming these fields, destroying their crops. The second thing is a matter of compensation. It is now in the Sejm, which has been submitted by a group of Members of the Law and Justice on compensation, on another mechanism, on the appointment of a committee at the voivodeship, on a compensation fund. The problem of compensation would be dealt with by this bill, but the problem of a large population of boars is not solved. The Ministry's website published a regulation by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development on ordering the sanitary discharge of wild boars, of which we are very pleased. Minister, we would like to know what this regulation is about, what area of the country and what population of wild boars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u57	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Minister Krzysztof Jurgel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Legislation allowing the reduction or reduction of the population of free-living animals is scattered in many legal acts. For example, the Hunting Law gives competence in this area of old age, which, in agreement with the Polish Łowiecki Union, can issue a decision about catching or reducing shots in case of a particular threat to the proper functioning of production facilities and public utility caused by animals. This law also gives competence to a stringsman who, acting under the authority of the Regional Director of the State Forestry Farm, may issue a provision for the use of a deflecting of a surrogate game if the owner of the hunting circuit does not implement the hunting plan. The competence to reduce the population of animals in an emergency situation of life, health and human economy also gives the Sejm of the voivodship the Animal Protection Act. He may adopt an appropriate resolution in this regard. As the practice shows, the use of the above-mentioned instruments has proved insufficient so far, and we will therefore prepare a change of law in this area as regards competence to make the law more effective. In the opinion of experts, the level guaranteeing the reduction of the risk associated with the spread of ASF in the eastern regions of Poland, in particular from the territory of Ukraine, is to achieve the density of the population of feral pigs to a level of 0,5 individuals per km. Such measures should be taken in a belt about 50 km wide from the border of the restricted area in the Podlaskie Voivodeship and along the eastern border of the State. Meanwhile, the population of wild boars, which is a potential reservoir of this disease, in some areas, exceeds significantly the level of 1 person per km. Therefore, despite the fact that no outbreaks and cases of ASF have so far been found in the above-mentioned zone and the epizootic situation is stable, I decided to take forward measures which aim to ensure the best possible protection of Poland's territory from the entry of the disease across the eastern border, where the epizootic situation is not fully known. The actions taken by me are the ordering powers of the various bodies involved in reducing or reducing the population of boars, scattered in many legal acts. To this end, for inter-ministerial arrangements and public consultation, I have addressed a draft regulation on ordering wild boar's sanitary discharge, which envisages a reduction of the population to a scientifically safe level of 0.5 per km. Maintaining the density of the feral population at such a low level will reduce the transmission of African swine fever virus between feral packs and thus better protect against virus penetration into areas where the disease has not yet occurred. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, As part of the planned measures to achieve feral density of 0.5 per km, approximately 40,000 animals must be shot off in the above-mentioned belt. wild boar art. The estimated cost of this task is about PLN 12.6 million. Finally, I would like to stress that my action is aimed at reducing the population of healthy boars, because they are a potential reservoir of disease and an important factor for its spread. At the same time, I would like to stress that the spread of ASF outside the Podlaskie Voivodeship can have disastrous economic consequences not only for Poland but also for the whole European Union. For this reason, I believe that there is a need to act decisively when it comes to reducing wild boar populations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u59	Thank you very much, Minister. Additional question - Mr Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I want to thank you very much for these actions. This shows that the Ministry is moving forward, ahead of time, and such actions were needed in the Ministry earlier. And the case, as I said earlier, of compensation that has plagued farmers for many, many years, and the case of wild boars, and the case too, Minister, the last aid which is directed to the country, to pig farmers and also to milk producers - such actions show that the ministry, if it wants, can help the Polish farmer. And here I would like to thank you very warmly for these actions as a Member, but above all as a farmer, because I meet with farmers very often and we talk about these issues. So here on behalf of the farmers I would like to thank you very warmly. I would like to ask you an additional question: Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure the Minister estimated what amounts would be allocated from the State budget to be fired and by what date this regulation could be introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u61	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Expected cost: 12,6 million PLN, about 40,000 PLN. the units according to the calculations given by the district veterinarians. The date of entry - I think that half of February, if there are no reservations and issues requiring clarification, and I think it is accepted positively in many environments. So that a regulation should be issued by mid-February. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Wojciech Zięniak and Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz from the Civic Platform Club. The question on the announcement of competitions from the Physical Culture Development Fund is addressed to the Minister of Sport and Tourism. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism Mr Ryszard Szuster will answer. You are the first question to be asked by Wojciech Zietniak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! For many years, the Ministry of Sport and Tourism has been announcing competitions for various projects for the development of sport among various social groups, especially for children and young people. One of the developers of these programs is the School Sports union. Others are among others. Academic Sports Union, People's Sports Teams or the Society for the Growing of Physical Culture. With the support of the Ministry, these organisations can carry out many useful activities for the dissemination of sport in their environments. In this connection, I ask the Minister when the Ministry of Sport Development will announce competitions from the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture in the "Sports of All Children' programme by supporting sport projects for children and young people. January is the month in which the competitions have already been decided, the more that the competitions are already in place, among others. in winter sports. I would also like to ask what kind of tasks will be covered by the funding. Whether the competition tasks will include the competition of schools - the Junior High School Games - the Junior High School and the High School; the children's and youth sports animator programme and the Little Master's programme. The competition of sports schools has been successfully organized for years and enjoys great popularity and interest in the school environment. The Olympics programme has been implemented by the School Sports Association for several decades and the Animator since 2002. All levels of local government units, i.e. municipalities, powiats and voivodships are involved in these activities. Several thousand schools participate in the programme each year within the course of the school year, 65.75% all over the country. The Ministry's financial expenditure on the competition of sports schools in the amount of 2,800 thousand. they involve generating resources for this from local governments, and this is also the case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] it causes their growth, through these local governments. I'd like to say this because time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u65	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Minister Richard Szuster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, sir, for this question. These are actually very important projects. I would like to say that the new management of the Ministry is now reviewing the programmes, while these two main programmes, which you were kind to ask, i.e. The School Youth Games, as well as the Little Master project, will soon be announced. I want to calm down, too. With regard to deadlines, Mr President, it has never been so that all these projects were already announced in January, because in the years and 2014 and 2015 the issue of many projects was not resolved until March. So that I would like to reassure you that the time limit for the selection of proposals for the performance of the Sports for All Programme will not differ in any way from the time limits for such decisions in previous years. As regards the "Sport of all children' programme, which will support, among other things, the "Sport of all children' programme. The Junior Sport and the Little Master projects you asked for are scheduled for the first half of February 2016. We have also planned to announce an animation programme, the implementation formula of which will consolidate existing programmes aimed at direct support for people conducting sports activities. All children's sport will be supported by the organisation of school sports competition as well as various sporting activities carried out by non-governmental organisations. And, of course, here the role of the School Sports Association and the board of directors is invaluable. You are the operator of this program. I would also like to say, with regard to the Animator programme, that after analysis we have come to the conclusion that, because the beneficiaries of this programme are usually trained and trainers recommended or already recommended by sports clubs and sports clubs, we will decide to include this programme in the wider programme that we are preparing. The work on this programme is currently being finalised. It will be a program, the working name of which is "Club." We want clubs from small towns, small clubs with low budgets in particular to be able to count on grants from the Ministry of Sport depending on whether they are individual or multi-sector. We predict that as many as 1,500 clubs can participate in this program. We're planning a grant of 10 and 15 thousand. depending on the number of sections. And to this program, the club, which we will soon present, will be included in the Animator programme. I think that in the coming weeks you will be able to learn about the objectives of this programme. Of course, as we have repeated many times, the new management of the Ministry analyses all projects, because there are a lot of them. We have some doubts, for example. For example, in the case of the Small Master project, where there is inefficient absorption of funds, because 6 million PLN is planned each year, while 3 million PLN is used - and in connection with such facts we tend to conclude that we should look at the programmes that operate very carefully and possibly modify them in some way, so that the social, public, which we spend on sport actually reach those places where they will be 100% used. So that in the coming weeks we will announce the programmes that you are asking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Very interesting information, especially that this amount of 6 million is not fully used, because we did not know that. But technical issues are very important in these programmes, because the later these programmes are announced, the harder it is to settle. Part of the sports competition is conducted earlier, it's about winter sports. Will it be possible to get laid later, even if someone becomes an operator? Are you thinking of doing three-year programs? This would allow for a smooth transition to such programmes in the coming years. I think it would be a good way to get a job in this area better. From my questions, it's still... It is a request more - that in the following years, if we remain with the one-year cycle, but try to announce and decide these competitions at the beginning of January above all, because it is very [[♪ The bell ♪]] It would improve the way we work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u69	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u70	Of course, we accept this suggestion that if the programmes are announced earlier, it is all the better, but since we are dealing with the year 2016, the Olympic year, I do not hide that the new management of the resort in the first weeks, or actually the days of its office focused on introducing a programme to finance the preparation of the teams and individual players for the Rio Games, hence the really slight slippage, although, as I said, it is difficult to talk about slipping here. As for the three-year programmes, it's a program, it's called "Kibice together," we're already doing it. Perhaps, at the moment, I will not answer the question specifically, we will create in the future programmes that will work in the perspective of actually two. - or three-year-old. This gives us the opportunity to develop a strategy, perhaps even a better, accurate implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u71	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Mr Jacek Falfus, Mr Adam Oldakowski and Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question on the progress of the Ministry's cooperation with sport unions in the context of Olympic preparations is also addressed to the Minister of Sport and Tourism. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism Mr Ryszard Szuster will also reply. Mr Falfus is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, During the Olympic year, it seems particularly important to provide our players with the opportunity to perform in the Olympic arenas and in preparation for this most prestigious sporting event, optimal preparation conditions. I would therefore like to ask the question: How does the Minister of Sport work with sports unions in the context just preparing the Olympics a few months before the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro? Second question. Minister, we are very pleased that in your programme of activities of the Ministry for the current year, the Minister places a great deal of emphasis on support, mainly financial, infrastructure investments of the Central Sports Centre and its seven Olympic preparations centres. These are statutory centres for training and training of national personnel, especially our Olympic staff. So I wanted to ask: To what extent is this COS-specific sports base used by sports unions in the preparation of Olympic staff for the Rio de Janeiro Games? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u73	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! That's a very important question. Very important, because 2016 is, of course, the year of the Olympic Games, but also many events of the highest rank, such as the European Championship in handball, it is a pity that with the accent we saw yesterday, later the World Championship in hockey, the World Junior Championship in Light Athletics in Bydgoszcz, the World Championship in fencing, etc., but especially the Olympic Games. It is a very great duty, in terms of the state budget and the ministry, to support preparations. I must say that for the first time in the history of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism already at the beginning of December, a programme was ready to finance from the budget of the state tasks related to preparing national team players for participation in both the Olympic Games and the European Championships and the World Championships. The amount we have allocated to this task is 146 200 thousand. zł. The amount is 22 million more than in 2015, which, of course, is justified by the launch in Rio de Janeiro. . As I say, once again, for the first time, relationships could have signed contracts at the beginning of January. It was all the more important that since the new year all the representations, all the staff, all the associations of Olympic sports already had a definite preparation plan, and because the Olympic Games are the most important event of the four years, so there can be no skirmishes when it comes to the implementation of the training plan, so the Ministry took all steps to get these measures running as soon as possible. Let me say that on 28 January we signed 17 individual sports contracts for a total amount of 87 934 thousand, and in January 11 million were allocated to the unions. Four contracts in team sports for a total amount of 11 648 thousand were spent in January about 1.5 million. Six winter sports contracts, because winter sports obviously started the season, for the amount of 10 711, in January we already spent 2,400 thousand. zł. We also launched the project of the Polish Club Rio 2016 by decision of the Minister on 1 January 2016. The programme included players and players who met the criteria set out for the outcome. The training in individual programs qualified 23 players and there are 72 individual paths. We must realise that there are still qualifications in various sports and we do not know exactly how many athletes will go to Rio, while many have potential opportunities, so it was very important to transfer funds. As of today, 68 Polish athletes in 40 qualifications, 30 women and 38 men - in swimming, sailing, rowing, canoeing, shooting, boxing, archery, modern five-hunting, lifting weights, taekwondo and cycling have received their qualifications and for the country. I would also like to add that this programme, which concerns competitive sport, has already been completed on 25 January with a new programme called the Youth Sport Support Programme. This is, of course, the natural base of Olympic personnel. This appropriation is intended to cover individual training, group training of young people with skills in sports championships and sports training centres of young people, as well as preparation of our representation for events such as junior and youth championships and academic championships, as well as university. I would also like to say that the Olympic Games, which take place in August, is not the only event that will take place in Rio, because in September we will have the pleasure of watching the 16th edition of the Special Olympics, i.e. we also had to secure funds for the Paralympian sport as a resort. Of course, we have also done very well here to sign contracts and I would like to say that we expect 14 958 thousand from the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture to finance the organisation and preparation of players with disabilities in sport competition, while 8200 thousand from the state budget, which is 3 million higher than in the previous year. In conclusion, the resources for preparing our athletes for the biggest events are absolutely secured. As far as the Olympic representation is concerned, these measures have already been transferred in part to unions. So it seems that we can only expect good results from the international arenas this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Moskal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm sure we're all happy about the fact that there's increased resources for sport. I hope this is a constant trend, and we will continue to devote more to sport. That's one thing. Second thing. The Minister spoke about the agreements, he talked about the transfer of certain funds, about the mobilisation of these funds, and I have a question: How much are these sports relationships satisfied with this decision and whether there are relationships that may be making some comments What about the policy that the Minister is pursuing? That's one thing. Second thing: Are there any problems with going away? Because Rio de Janeiro or more charges. Has anyone reported this problem? Flights, crossings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And is there cooperation with the PKO in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u77	Thank you very much. You're the Minister again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u78	Mr. Speaker! I would like to say that we have a rather comfortable situation as a resort, because at the last meeting, when we reported the allocation of funds, almost or not almost, but no one, any representative of any sports discipline, has raised the slightest objections to the distribution of funds. The measures are sufficient, and in some cases even there are - such voices come from unions - concerns about the management of unions, to which these funds are reasonably spent, which is more than optimal. We, of course, learn from these attitudes and, of course, we will allocate these funds next year. Whether the appropriations will be higher next year, of course, depends on the budgetary position. We can't imagine it to be otherwise, but of course it's not up to us to decide. On the other hand, the fundamental issue is the rationalness of spending these funds, right? Of course, there is no such decision in the Ministry so far that we divide sport into more important and less important ones, because the basic issue is the Olympic Games programme and, above all, the Olympic disciplines in which our country representatives represent us must be properly financed. So that the measures are not lacking, all the unions have accepted what we have presented. Right now, we're just gonna be monitoring individual relationships when it comes to preparing for the Olympic Games, because this is a basic event, the most important one. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much for your extensive explanations.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u79	Thank you very much, Minister, Members. The next question will be asked by Members: Mrs Jolanta Szczypińska, Mr Andrzej Jaworski and Mr Jan Kilian, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question about problems in Pomerania in connection with the illegal activities of the Pomeranian vet described in the press, discussed in the national media and the lack of reaction by the relevant institutions is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Minister Krzysztof Jurgel will also answer this question. Please, Mr Andrzej Jaworski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u80	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Unfortunately, she is in committee at the moment, there is an important vote, so I will try to meet this challenge on my own. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On 28 July 2015, the then Pomeranian voivode sends a notice to the prosecutor's office of suspicion of a criminal offence pursued by a voivodship veterinarian in Gdansk. On September 23rd, the District Prosecutor's Office of Gdansk-Śródmieście launches an investigation into the Pomeranian veterinarian, and the CBA delegation in Gdansk opens hearings with former district doctors who made statements on irregularities. There's a change of voivode after that. On 18 December, the new Pomeranian voivode Dariusz Drelich informs that he is analysing the documentation of the objections to the work of Dr. Włodzimierz Przewoski, Pomeranian veterinarian and his subordinate inspector. That's, among other things. the effect of the intervention of Prime Minister Beata Kempa's head of law after an open letter addressed to Prime Minister Beata Szydło. At the same time, Program 2 of Polish Television broadcasts a report on the behaviour of a voivodship veterinarian. In local media and nationwide media, there is a very large discussion about what is happening in Pomeranian veterinary medicine, there are complaints written by individual veterinarians who complain about mobbing, complain that they are subject to various pressures. To this day, there's actually nothing going on in this case. Of course, we are not here to discuss who is right, but with such reservations it would seem that at least the suspension of a person who is so confused would be the minimum that should be done. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u81	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Minister Krzysztof Jurgel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! January 23rd this year The law on the amendment of the Civil Service Act, which includes among others, entered into force. Voivodship veterinary surgeons and their deputies who, in accordance with Article, 52 (3) are classified as senior civil servants. The Provincial Veterinary Officer and his deputy shall be appointed and dismissed by the Chief Veterinary Officer in agreement with the competent voivode. In view of the situation, I will recommend to the Chief Veterinary Officer to assess the Pomeranian voivodship veterinary surgeon's activities, who will take appropriate decisions on this matter following evaluation in consultation with the Pomeranian voivodship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Jaworski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u84	Thank you. Minister, we thank you for these explanations, but the problem is that, according to your information, the Pomeranian voivodeship has already begun such control and since then, as I have read, it has been more than a month and there is no information, and the situation is getting worse. In this respect, however, we would ask for faster action to end this case, because every day it is really just pretending to be doing something and not explaining the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u85	Thank you very much, sir. Again, I ask Minister Krzysztof Jurgel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I recommend a little patience. On 23 January the Act entered into force, assessments are made and the main veterinarian, and the provincial veterinarians. So that decisions in due course, within the 30 days provided for by the Act, will be taken. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. And another question, the last one in this block, will be asked by Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki and Mr Jerzy Żyżyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question of the changes made in the evaluation of scientific units in relation to the evaluation carried out in 2013 and their compatibility with the observations and proposals made by the scientific community in relation to the previous evaluation is addressed to the Minister for Science and Higher Education. The answer to this question will be the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Minister Leszek Sirko. Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki will be the first question to be asked. And I will take this opportunity to welcome another group of young people, this time from Primary School 301, also from Warsaw, to our gallery. Greetings. [[Applause]] And I ask you, Professor Bernacki, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2013, for the first time, a comprehensive assessment of the scientific and research and development activities of scientific units was carried out in accordance with the principles laid down in the provisions issued under the Law of 30 April 2010 on the principles of funding for science. Scientific units have been evaluated by the Scientific Units Evaluation Committee in accordance with the criteria and specific parameters set out in the Regulation of the Minister for Science and Higher Education of 13 July 2012 on the criteria and modalities for the award of the scientific category to scientific entities. The assessment was based on the information provided by the scientific units in the survey of the scientific unit. The above assessment was strictly parametrised. To determine the scientific category for individual scientific units, an algorithm was used based on the method of comparing pairs of scientific units using a weighted relationship of transversal. A number of reservations were raised by the scientific community in relation to the principles adopted, including: concerning an incomprehensible and complex algorithm. The comments also dealt with problems related to the assessment of entities operating in different fields of science and insufficient consideration of utilitarian achievements. Critical comments and experience from the evaluation have led to the need to amend the provisions on evaluation of scientific units and the award of scientific categories. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions. Firstly, what major changes have been made in the evaluation of scientific units in relation to the evaluation carried out in 2013? Secondly, are the changes made in line with the comments and proposals made by the scientific community? Thirdly, whether the Ministry of Science and Higher Education plans to make changes in this area and what are further forward-looking plans of the Ministry, especially in the context of the basic dilemma, whether the assessment of scientific units should be parametric and largely quantified, [[♪ The bell ♪]] or should it evaluate towards an expert assessment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u89	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Minister Leszek Sirka. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for these very important questions about parametric evaluation of scientific units. Well, as you have rightly pointed out, these parametric assessments have not only aroused interest, they have also partially upset the scientific community with regard to the parametric assessment of 2013, because many reservations about this parameterization have not been taken into account in the parametric assessment. The main questions raised by the scientific community on the 2013 parametric evaluation were, inter alia,: simplifying the way, the algorithm of pair comparisons in terms of evaluation of scientific units, as well as modifying the way in which scientific bodies carry out scientific activities in different fields or disciplines of science are assessed. Here, before 2013, in the opinion of the scientific community, these individuals were not properly assessed. It was also suggested to increase the importance in the assessment of the scientific units of their innovative activities and to take into account in the evaluation of research projects carried out by the scientific unit the role of the units in the implementation of the projects. It is about coordination or the execution of a specific task. These changes and these proposals have already been addressed, at least in part, in the Regulation of the Minister for Science and Higher Education of 27 October 2015 on the criteria and modalities for the award of the scientific category to scientific bodies. Under this Regulation, the so-called "market economy operator' was granted and established. a group of joint assessments with regard to the so-called. non-university scientific units. This is the first thing that has already been done. Then the algorithm used to determine the category of scientific scientific units was simplified. In the previous categorization, the units were compared in pairs and in groups of joint assessments, it was completely opaque, it could not actually be completed later. Units could not be themselves in a specific position which resulted from the categorization. Now the units will be compared with the reference unit, which is a reasonable change. The role of innovative achievements has also been enhanced. Among other things, new evaluation parameters have been introduced concerning the revenues of the scientific entity for the sale of products and applications for scientific research results or development work will be included in the assessment of the entity. What is also important and what has been raised by scientific bodies is a change in how to assess the participation of individuals in projects involving research and development. According to the new proposal, activity will be scored in the coordination and implementation of these projects. It is well known that in various projects different entities play a different role - some simply carry out this project and participate in its implementation, some are coordinators of such projects. These are indeed different roles, which of course need to be appreciated and taken into account. Moreover, what is important, especially from the humanistic point of view of science, was introduced an increased score for monographs and artistic works. The so-called ones appeared. outstanding monographs, i.e. awarded with a prestigious award, for which 50 points can be awarded according to the current proposal and regulation, that is a very high assessment. In addition, the mobility of workers of the scientific unit has been taken into account, and therefore, as part of the parametric evaluation, the scientific stays of workers will also be assessed. The changes also concern the identification of category A+. In accordance with the Regulation, category A+ will be derived from category units And so it's going to be a subset of the categories. A, and will take into account six of the following criteria: the importance of achievements taken into account in criterion one, i.e. outstanding scientific or creative achievements, participation in the dissemination of scientific achievements, participation in the creation of strategic research infrastructure, the importance of research results or development work for the economic development of Poland, scientific and artistic achievements and participation in international research projects. Well, I would like to say that the Ministry believes that, although these changes are going in the right direction, they are not yet sufficient, because there is no emphasis on an important expert role in the evaluation of scientific institutions. Therefore, a new regulation will be introduced in 2016, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will take into account the expert assessment and the number of achievements on the basis of which category A, B or C will be initially granted will be limited from 3N to 2N. The idea is simply that scientific institutions should create real science, real works, not publish causal works that are irrelevant, which are only done for future parameterization. As regards also the target changes that we will be implementing as early as 2021, there will be much more emphasis on expert assessment, including international experts, which seems to be a global standard and from which we cannot escape.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u91	Thank you, Minister. The additional question - Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u92	Just one, actually, single-handed. Minister, so far there has been a belief that Polish language is not a scientific language, because publications in Polish were much lower than those in Western languages, even when these publications were Polish but English-language publications. Does the Ministry provide for the possibility of changing the current, in my opinion, the wrong idea?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u93	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, That is a very important problem. We already have a division of points awarded to magazines into categories: A, B and C. This is the humanistic part related to this type of journal, where there is no longer a significant distinction between Polish and non-Polish. This is, in a way, a bit of a surrogate discussion. The introduction of a broader expert assessment will mean that the points awarded for publications and the point valuation of publications will simply cease to play an important role. Well, experts who will judge whether in this case humanists, who will judge, say, humanities institutes, know very well what it means to work worthwhile, what it means to be published in value. So that by reducing the number of N and increasing the role of expert assessment, we will simply lead to a situation where we will stop discussing things in a sense not as important as the point assessment of a particular magazine. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u94	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on to the next point. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the financial situation of Polish local governments, about which the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party brought the presentation, will be discussed at the present meeting of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mrs Andzelika Możjanovska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u95	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The reasons for the proposal are enormous concerns - not only mine, but also many local authorities - raised in the field. Two months ago Law and Justice announced that Poland is in ruins, declaring that the actions of PiS from these ruins of Poland will raise. Today's concerns are from local Poland, the Polish self-government, because we will all agree with one thing, that self-government and self-government is the biggest success of democracy after 1989, which is still functioning properly. Local Poland is the gminas, powiats and voivodships, Polish self-government is Poland of strong local communities, from which the strength of the whole nation grows. Unfortunately, I have been observing for some time the actions of the Law and Justice to destroy this immense value. One of the ideas of the PiS presented during the election campaign was to increase the tax-free amount. That's a great idea, because who among us doesn't want to pay lower taxes. However, as I have already pointed out, I will stress this once again - according to estimates we are talking about reducing revenue to the budget by nearly PLN 18 billion. Since half of the revenue from PIT is retained by local governments, we are talking about a real loss of money of nearly PLN 9 billion, i.e. the absence in local governments of money already planned for hospitals, infrastructure, waterworks or schools. How wonderful it is that the Prime Minister is going to the end of the world and promises waterworks. It is a pity that the Prime Minister will not apologize immediately to those municipalities which may not have the necessary expenditure on the water supply infrastructure from which they will have to give up, as their planned PIT revenues will decrease. Are these communities going to apologize? It cannot be that an increase in the tax-free amount will be realised at the expense of local governments. This is where we say no. It is not only a matter of loss on the part of local governments, but in many cases it is a matter of depriving local governments of their ability to function properly. For this reason, I ask for precise information: How and by what date is Prime Minister Beata Szydło's government planning to compensate local governments for significantly lower tax revenues? Please note that these are often measures already planned. I hope you will not attempt to return to central management. It's about education. In recent years, local authorities have incurred considerable costs for the functioning of education, invested in adapting their institutions to the current, current and future needs of pupils. It's often new rooms, equipment, because that's what they take care of every day. I would ask you to identify the local authorities that you consulted on the project of closing and losing junior high. Or did you consult with the Polish Teachers' Association, or did you consult with the parents' organizations? In junior high, over 1 million students are taught, over 100,000 are employed. teachers and over 20,000. administrative and service staff. How does the government plan to develop such a significant number of employees? If you are planning to release this 120,000 people, please give me specific information: Where do you want people from the graduated junior high schools to report? The Polish Teachers Association recently collected a quarter of a million signatures in the defense of junior high schools. Self-governments, teachers, parents and students are not guinea pigs. Do not threaten with announcements and slogans and plans, but say openly: What about middle school? When and eventually have your announcements changed? What is the result of these changes? The last aspect of the issue that I address is health care. You promised in the election campaign that you would stop the process of commercialisation of hospitals, but you forgot to say that according to your idea, the responsibility for debt of independent public health establishments is to be taken over by local government. How do you imagine the Prime Minister and the Government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło that the responsibility for the debt of SPOZ is to take over the local governments, which I mentioned earlier you intend to reduce tax revenues? I raised just a few of the most important issues concerning the proper functioning of the Polish self-government. I could mention even more, but, ladies and gentlemen, in defence of Poland's strong and self-government, I want to focus only on the most important ones, which are extremely concerned about the terrain. Are your announcements from the election campaign up to date or not? Who will be charged the costs of increasing the tax-free amount? Will it be a government or a state budget? Is the Prime Minister's promise to eliminate the middle school? If so, when and if you are aware of the fact that this will be a burden-bearing decision for both students and parents, [[♪ The bell ♪]] How are the self-governments? What idea do you have for the proper functioning of Polish hospitals, both those specialized and those small hospitals located in powiats? According to the preliminary assumptions of the PiS, only local authorities will depend on whether they find funds to cover the debt. What will happen when the hospital is in debt and the local government is unable to provide adequate support because it has been deprived of planned tax revenues? What is the plan to support indebted county hospitals from the state budget? One last question. Isn't your strategy, by any chance, to impose all responsibility on self-government? I'm asking you this in context...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u96	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u97	...all the time in which the strategy is being implemented, in which, from the very beginning, ladies and gentlemen, all we hear is to shed all responsibility on other political parties, and now additionally on local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u99	I also ask for all written answers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u100	Thank you very much, Member. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance by Mrs Hanna Majszczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Allow me to refer to the first question asked by the Member concerning the amount of freedom, but perhaps before specifically the draft amendments in this respect, I would like to say that on January 26th, a few days ago, the first meeting of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government was held after the election, in which the Prime Minister also attended, in which the meeting was declared that any solutions of major importance for local authorities would be consulted with the local government. This is the case for a free amount. Even before the first meeting of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission this year, a meeting was held at the Ministry of Finance on 18 January with representatives of all local organisations during which discussions were held and were presented by all participants of this meeting on the part of the local government, concerns and consequences which they believe could result in changes in the tax-free amount. And, of course, all these comments and all these concerns that accompanied these information on the change of the amount free, in addition to the announcements that had been made earlier, already last year, also resulting from the judgment of the Constitutional Court, will be considered. The meeting that was at the Ministry of Finance is not the last meeting. This was the first meeting of a series of meetings to be held on the major changes that are planned, but the first is the change concerning the tax-free amount. As we agreed at this meeting, this information was presented to the local government, of course we will be looking for solutions, such as the changes that will be made, should be properly balanced towards the local authorities, of course in terms of all the changes introduced simultaneously, also after taking account of the positive effects that will arise on the local government as a result of changes in the range of 500 PLN per child, which will also stimulate the market and at the same time result in higher tax revenues. As far as the Minister of Finance is concerned, this information has already been mediated by the Minister, for his part, the Minister of Finance is in favour of gradually raising this amount of free money. Of course, all of this will be the subject of consultation. The project that will appear will be the subject of consultation not only of inter-ministerial services but also of the local government, where parallel other solutions will be presented, which on the one hand will present this revenue page for local government units, which does not necessarily involve any compensation, but the possibility of obtaining additional income due to changes to be proposed. Thank you very much and further questions have already been asked by the other representatives of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u102	Thank you very much, Minister. Now I ask you to answer the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Many emotions and many half-truths in your speech, because it takes a lot of courage to look into the eyes of local governments after 8 years of government of PO-PSL, which led to the debt of local governments for more than 74 billion PLN and for more than 10 billion hospitals. At the same time, you need to have a lot of courage to perform in this way, when for 8 years no task has been ordered in any way secured. [[Junior high.]] She does not know, she may not remember, but there are Members who remember that a few months before the elections, even those associated with the Civic Platform and the PSL, have organised a protest culturally, asking for 8 to 10 billion PLN from the government of the Civic Platform and PSL for tasks commissioned by this government, so it is true. Secondly, you raise the issue of middle school. We're talking 250,000. signatures collected by the Polish Academy of Sciences, first of all collected by teachers, it is an initiative, among others. Toruńska. I also have complaints from my parents that children crying came home and walked around their grandmothers and grandparents to collect these signatures because their parents were interested in education their children, not the system in which they function. At the same time, you know very well that there is no project to put out middle school and therefore we cannot discuss the calculations proposed by the Polish Teachers' Union, but there is a debate and there is a decision to change the system. On February 2, I invite you to a press conference at the Ministry of Education. From February to the end of June we will diagnose Polish education and Polish system. Everyone will discuss every element. Over 200 problems in the education system are diagnosed. At the same time 2,700 socialists, experts who want to work on changing the basis of the programme and on the programme, are incoherent, so bothers children and parents. At the same time, after the debate, the conclusions will be drawn, a draft bill will be written, there will be written the basics of the program, which will be such that they will see the student from the age of six to the age of 18, 19 so that no changing system can touch the student or parent. The teachers in the project and the idea are designed and invented so that they don't get hurt. I would like to remind you that several thousand schools disappeared from the ground during the rule, and several tens of thousands of teachers lost their jobs, even though they were employed on the basis of the Teacher's Charter. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Self-governments have decided that.]] This process must be halted in order to reverse the trend that was the trend of the Civic Platform and PSL government. When there's a system change project, we'll answer specific questions, we'll count together. In 2, 3 years will come out of Polish education and you have to worry about small schools and worry about teachers. And I ask the Civic Platform, the PSL especially, because it is responsible for this state of education, for cooperation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Piotr Warczyński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, The principle that the creator is responsible, including financial responsibility, for his independent public health care establishment, follows directly from the current law on medicinal activities and this principle, with minor modifications, has been in force since 1989 as it has been enshrined in the law on health care establishments. Thus, this obligation has existed since the transformation, since 1989, and has lasted for 27 years. Therefore, it is quite incomprehensible to note the obligation of local governments, local authorities to cover a negative financial result in the revision of these regulations. On the other hand, the proposals contained in the draft assumptions for the draft law amending the law on medicinal activities do not increase or reduce the responsibility of local governments. They propose merely simplifying and relaxing the procedure relating to the responsibility of the body for the operation of its ownership, its own public health care facility, and relate solely to the change of obligation, with the abolition of the obligation to transform the public health establishment itself into a capital company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? No. I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Wozniak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Every debate in Parliament, and not only that about Polish local governments, is very important, but - just as the Minister of Education has just mentioned - pointing out certain errors and omissions at present, in the third month of the rule of law and justice, is not exactly on the spot. I have here one of the speeches, these speeches of the Association of Polish Self-Governments there have been many in recent years, in this case This is the speech of the association of Polish municipalities and powiats, it is from 2012, but these speeches were regularly directed, and it was individual representatives of individual levels of local government, and it was how the mantra went in individual speeches to the government, then the government of PO and PSL, and the local government, despite the fact that they are responsible for local governments, also appear from recommendations of many communities, including political environments. It was also the former self-governments who represented the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party that drew attention to the problems that were already growing in 2012, in 2011 and in the following years, and earlier, due to the lack of financial opportunities of local governments. There was a lot of European funding, the local authorities were involved, but on the other hand, the government's tasks were increasing and there was no funding for them. And that problem was growing. This is not a problem that is now, this problem is not a new problem. Of course, as the Minister said, we will solve this problem, we will consult with local government. The consultation is already beginning, and also in the Ministry of Finance recently took place, the last and first in this term of office, this Monday. I have a question for the Minister to present, as she said earlier, the main assumptions and changes in which direction we, as the Government of Law and Justice, will go in the proposed law when it comes to local governments. What changes are proposed and what changes are proposed? [[♪ The bell ♪]] changes will be consulted with local authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I ask a question, I must refer to the statements of Minister Zalewska, who, as usual, does not speak about what the Government of Law and Justice is going to do and what the Government of Law and Justice is going to do in the near future, but only about what the previous government supposedly did not do. You referred to the initiative of local authorities and to the citizens' initiative concerning the draft law amending the law on the income of local government units. Imagine that I have the material signed by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who concludes this project: The citizens' project does not present a balance sheet of solutions that had or could have had an impact on the development of revenue in 2005 and 2011. The solutions presented in the citizens' project reflect only one page of the account. Such a presentation of the situation therefore does not entitle to put the thesis on the loss of revenue for the amount of PLN 8 billion. And the last sentence in this document: In view of the above, it is not possible to respond positively to the project submitted. So much for Mrs. Beata Szydło's alleged concern about self-government finances. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a specific question, since this problem, the problem of financing local government units, must be addressed systematically and comprehensively today. Pointless and uncoordinated legislative interventions are no longer sufficient. So I ask: Will the Ministry of Finance continue to work on a new bill on the income of local government units? This work has begun. Minister Majszczyk participated in the work of the self-government team, which prepared assumptions for a new draft of this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These assumptions also envisaged the participation of local authorities in VAT. Does the Government of Law and Justice provide for further diversification of the revenue of local government units, including VAT, and will local governments participate in the work on the new draft law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u110	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u111	I'm almost done, Marshal. I stress: Will they participate in the work directly, not whether it will be consulted, but will they be able to actively participate in the work on a new draft law on the income of local government units? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, will speak. There's no envoy. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club. You don't have an MP either. Mr Jan Łopata, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u113	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! When at the end of last year, at the date of 19 November, Sejm Marshal introduced a citizens' bill to the Sejm on the amendment of the income law of the JTS, there was - I do not hide - a surprise, but there was also a certain amount of hope, because it concerns a proposal to compensate for the income lost by local governments. Since 2005, this underfinancing amount has been estimated at PLN 8 billion, including the change in PIT tax in 2006-2007. This information, in particular I am speaking to Minister Zalewska, who is not listening to me right now, but I would ask you very much to... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: I have very divisive attention, I listen with the utmost attention.]] Because I do not believe that you do not remember this, but you do not want to remember that in 2006 and 2007 it was the Prime Minister of the Government of Zyta Gilowska through the change of PIT legislation that led to a imbalance in the financing of local governments, it is about PLN 7 billion. It is worth remembering this when it is addressed here to our coalition, our term of office. In the election campaign, PiS promised to take care of local governments, so the questions are well-founded and seem to be timely: neither too early nor too late. One at a time. The leading issue is the election project of PiS 500+. It shall be kept in technical and practical secrecy, as well as the financial side of the operation of the project. According to the announcement, there are 2 months to launch the project. With my imagination, I can see the title that here is a good government, maybe a very good government, and local governments are torpedoing the program. When can you count on specifics? Besides, as the author of the 2009 National Local Road Redevelopment Program - now there is a slightly changed name - I'm betting [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Is this a programme that will be supported by the PiS government, and will this good programme, which brings much needed investment, continue?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u114	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ryszard Galla, independent Member, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I will be like a follow-up to this series of questions that my predecessors have asked, and this concerns the income law of local government units. As we know, in this part, especially concerning local governments, we have the situation that this amendment is in force until the end of 2016, and so we are in the moment when it is necessary to start working in local governments on preparing the 2017 budget or the multiannual financial forecast, and in fact the local authorities do not know what documents they will be able to work on. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, the Prime Minister, whether we are proposing an amendment or a new draft law on the income of local government units, when such a project would sail to the marshal's staff and what tasks it will include. Will it be as if it would maintain the principle that functions today when it comes to the income of self-government units, or will it introduce other solutions that we have already heard about in the previous term of office? Will there be a continuation and a result of the completion of this work during this term of office? I can say that in recent years local governments in the area of their own income are very limited, and the number of tasks that are added to local governments without financial security causes the situation of local governments to get worse. Today I can say that the participation of EU funds, whether at the level of local governments of the voivodship, or perhaps especially, causes that local governments do not yet feel these problems, but what would happen, I look towards Mr.Marshal Protas, in the voivodship authorities, when there would be no funds from the so-called. Technical assistance? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How would these self-governments work? Therefore, it seems to me that the issue of self-government income is very important. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u116	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Wróblewska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Dear Parliamentaries! The revolutionary judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of September 2015 results in many changes in the functioning of local governments. Municipalities will have to, among other things. take over the obligation to settle the VAT of its budgetary units and budgetary establishments, to submit one declaration to the municipality together with the organisational units, those without legal personality, to lean on VAT in tasks carried out with the participation of the European Union. There are problems ahead of local government units with regard to VAT clearance, where VAT, in accordance with the rules, may be ineligible expenditure, i.e. one which is not refundable from EU funds and the municipality had the possibility to settle it with the tax office. Therefore, the municipality should reimburse the relevant part of the subsidy to the Union budget. In the sense of local authorities, the draft VAT bill and the reimbursement of European funds leave the municipalities too little time, because only until 1 March 2016, to submit information on their own situation and to make a declaration that they do not settle VAT with the tax office and the European Union subsidy remains unchanged or that they settle VAT with the tax office and must return the subsidy together with interest. The issue of interest raises a lot of doubts, because the problem of reimbursement was not caused by local governments. Another point is the short time limit for the reimbursement of the Union grant in part of VAT by 1 March 2016. The government must first commit its own resources and wait for them to be returned from the tax office. The amendment of the rules may cause, inter alia, increasing the employment of workers and the need to adapt the financial and accounting systems to the new requirements. All of these will result in financial expenditure. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Minister, the local authorities are asking for a clear interpretation of the rules so as to avoid the costs and errors involved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u118	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Nowak, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The 500+ programme is and will be struggled with by local governments, with the cost of operating this program. The government proposes that 2% the value of the task covered the actual costs of its operation. This seems to be insufficient, as evidenced by the fact that 3% for the maintenance fund's payments, family benefits are not sufficient for the performance of typical administrative tasks. Self-governments insist that the 2% has been raised to at least 3%. Let me remind you that every administrative decision is a cost of approx. 30 PLN. The issuing of the decision itself does not terminate the proceedings, as each month a list of payments in paper form is drawn up for each recipient, which generates costs such as expenditure on paper, ink, energy, employee salaries, as well as the handling of payments of benefits in cash register. It would be reasonable to harmonise the rules on the cost of family benefits and maintenance and up to 5% of child support, and that is what local authorities are calling for. How can local governments now, this year, be organized and financially prepared to implement the programme? Will the government prepare a boardwalk for the money that needs to be run this year? But there is also a matter of when the programme will be operational, what will the implementation control of the 500+ programme look like? What will happen if the audit questions the spending of funds, and will local governments be burdened with the financial consequences of the irregularities found and the functioning of the programme? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u120	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u121	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! If we are talking today about the financial situation of local governments, let me focus on the financial consequences they have on local governments in fulfilling the responsibilities of the leading bodies or the founding bodies of health services. I have a question for the Minister. Minister, we know that the Ministry is implementing the first map of health needs. At what stage are these works currently in place? This raises the second question about the functioning of the steering committee, which during this programming period - these decisions, arrangements, commitment of work - will enable financial support to be mobilised for investment tasks involving modernisation and investment, the purchase of equipment in hospital units. We know that this situation is also related to what the High Sejm adopted a few weeks ago. We then submitted the possibility of establishing and introducing an annex to contracts for medical procedures. Therefore, the question arises as to whether this time remaining until 30 June 2017 will be used to prepare a new valuation of medical procedures that will take account of the change in reality and how far advanced the work on establishing hospital maps is being carried out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u122	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Dariusz Starzycki from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! For many years, one of the most important problems with regard to the finances of local governments has been the subject of the amount of education subsidies. As a general rule, it should cover in full the expenditure on educational tasks in part which is not the task of its own self-governments. However, it has been too low for years, while the amounts that the local government makes are steadily increasing. And the PO-PSL government in the last two terms has done nothing to change this situation. [[You're getting deeper.]] Today, however, I hear that the representatives of these parties become the greatest defenders of Polish communes. It is only a pity that for the last eight years they have been so intensely seeking them, on the contrary. [[I wonder what you're gonna do.]] The requests of various associations of local governments were systematically ignored. As an example of my hometown, Jaworzna is such that the total amount of education expenditure in 2015 is 124 million. The level of education subsidy is 82 million. So the city paid $42 million out of its funds. Same level of investment... Sorry, for the investment planned in 2015, the municipality borrowed 38 million credits. The same level of investment, even increased by 4 million without any credit, could have been achieved by the municipality if it had not been for the resources spent on the task, the funding of which should be secured by subsidies. The situation is similar in hundreds of Polish municipalities and cities. It's the result of completely neglecting the question of how education is financed by the previous coalition. Such a low subsidy could distort the proper performance of the local authorities' own tasks, as well as the maximum use of resources from the current EU perspective. I therefore ask the Minister: Is he also planning to discuss the new model of funding for education in local governments in the context of the announced discussion with local governments on the education system? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u124	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It just so happens that I took part in this joint meeting of the government - the government, after which the government actually came out with very mixed feelings, because on the one hand, the good and right declaration of the Prime Minister at the beginning, that there would be no bad practices, i.e. tasks without resources, but in fact the good news ended there was only 500+ and the question of what to do next. Because let's remember that as much power as money. In conversations with local governments, with local government officials, everyone says, "We're up against the wall." Today we have a negative opinion of the Council of Ministers on the citizens' project. It's quiet, what's next with the income of JST. The question is whether it's really worth leaning on a new law or discussing what income is, because what are the competences, everyone knows. Today, self-government is such a kind of bag for so-called. difficult and uncomfortable tasks that no one wants and which pushes into local governments. Only the local government say briefly: if you are giving us tasks, give us real - once again - real - measures that will enable us to carry out these tasks and do what is best for our citizens. On the other hand, let us remember that taxpayers, or residents, pay for the lack of resources as a consequence. The inhabitants are those who will cover all of this in the name of the principle of realization of specific tasks. Therefore, my warm request is that, despite this meeting with Minister Shamacha and the activities of the Joint Committee, we should bow to the income law of the JST and start really doing this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u126	Thank you very much. Now I ask for the voice of Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u127	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Minister, maybe I'll go back to what you said at the beginning. It is important that you have a program and want to implement it. You have every right to do that. We want you to implement it, because practically by entering the elections, the state in its election program promised Poles an amount tax-free of 8 thousand. zł. You also promised to reduce preschool age. You were talking about a lot of things that affect local governments directly. And that's your right. No one's taking that right away from law and justice today. But we want you to be able to implement these programming principles fairly, even specific programs... 'Cause we remember the Prime Minister bringing in the briefcase and saying they were prepped programs. You come in, you come in and you rule, you put these projects right in front of you. And what does it turn out to be? That you actually had just a title, a thought, and it didn't follow those thoughts, there was no particular project. This was also the case with the draft law amending the Individual Income Tax Act submitted by the President, which was to agree with the public, in this case with local government units. And there was nothing, there was no specific conversation. Today, local governments really feel concerned and have the right to do so because they suddenly lose almost PLN 8 billion. Who's gonna make it up to them? The Civic Platform submitted a draft law in December which clearly indicates that there is a formula for compensating for these lost funds from the state budget by changing the amount of tax from PIT, changing its parts and proportions in order to compensate for these allowances in some way. I do not hide the fact that today the local governments are writing various letters to us with concern. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With me, the Western Subregion with its headquarters in Rybnik clearly shows how much money it will lose when you introduce this reform of yours related to the liquidation of junior high schools. They are already concerned about what has happened, in accordance with the Law on the Restoration of School Ages for 7 years or the reduction in the number of pupils. I'm talking about specific numbers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u128	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u129	In Jastrzębie it is 4 million PLN, in Rybnik it is almost 10 million PLN, in smaller municipalities, up to 10 thousand PLN, that is 600 thousand PLN, from the number of 20 thousand PLN. The population is over 1,200 thousand. zł. These are specific amounts that lose local governments from the budgets of their municipalities. Where are they gonna get them? They're gonna tax their residents again?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u130	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u131	This is the care, care of the government about the residents, about local governments, and it is said that the local government is really very concerned. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u132	Thank you very much, sir. Please, now Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u133	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Parliamentary Club of PSL is very concerned about the statements of PiS politicians who announce organizational changes in education, including the elimination of junior high... Minister, if you'll just wait a little longer, there's a question for you. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: But the chairman of the education committee calls me.]] Thank you very much. I'm almost done. I ask for a clear and clear answer as to how many teachers will lose their jobs, how this will affect the quality of education of more than one million students. [[Don't scare the teachers. You can't do anything else.]] In Poland we have, ladies and gentlemen, over 200 junior high schools. John Paul II. What are you going to do with them? Are you going to turn them into magazines? Please respond in writing. But one more question, I still have time. We hear today that local governments are calling for a delay in the implementation of the 500+ programme. Today I ask whether 500 PLN per child, for each child, I repeat, will be paid from 1 April and will also be equal from 1 January, as you promised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u134	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members and Members, In August, new rules were introduced for the lighting charges for national roads and express roads. It seemed that the relief of the municipalities for this reason became a fact and it became, so to speak, a great relief for the municipalities. On the other hand, it has turned out that the problem is still functioning, because unfortunately there are quite large discrepancies in the legislation. Today there is a dispute between the general management of roads and motorways and part of the communes - not all municipalities, but part of the communes - what is a building area and what is a built-up area, because in the road law the area is built, which begins with the so-called. The white board, and here it is quite clear, while in this seemingly new... the amendment concerning the Energy Law uses the wording: the site of the building. Today there is a dispute against this background, and I would like to ask when it will be clarified, what is the area of construction, what is built-up area, so that it simply eliminates this dispute and that the municipalities through which express roads and national roads run know whether they are actually to pay for lighting or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u136	Thank you very much. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Prime Minister, actually. I wanted to ask why you are wrapping up the state, the government of law and justice, local Poland. In the election campaign we heard constantly that Poland, the local one, is in ruins and that the county Poland is rolling. And, ladies and gentlemen, the government would have to be expected at the very beginning of the presentation of a system-based model of financing for municipal, district and voivodship authorities, so that the government would not collapse. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we have a shot in the right field every minute, which is why this government is just starting to collapse. We have already heard about the underestimated costs of handling the amount of 500+, we have heard here about fears, threats, millions calculated for increasing the tax credit without compensating its local governments. Ladies and gentlemen, there has also been a lot of information about the costs that local governments face for increasing the age of schooling, which is to withdraw six-year-olds to kindergarten. There isn't much time, and I'm going to give you two examples of many that have come to me, with concrete calculations from local governments. Ladies and gentlemen, Sawa, the capital of my constituency - PLN 3.5 million for withdrawing six-year-olds to kindergarten. It will cost this city's budget, ladies and gentlemen, 10% the investment budget and, ladies and gentlemen, the equivalent of the civil budget. This is very important, because the municipalities began with great success, with very good results, to introduce participatory budgets, which is the method of direct democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the roads will be closed by now. Another town, Walking - 800,000. zł, this is 30% of planned investment expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, who will compensate the municipalities for this money? How? What's your plan? And in that case, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't you think that we have a very serious risk of being able to benefit from European funds by local governments because they won't have any money to contribute, their own share? Ladies and gentlemen, I think that you are folding local Poland, perhaps on purpose, in order to return to the system of the Polish People's Republic, to the so-called. democratic centralism, about which one of your fellow Members is still wrong...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u138	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u139	...and his legs are stuck in this system all the time, and that's what he calls our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u140	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party,
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have four short questions for the Prime Minister. Is there a prepared and ready method for directing funds from the "Family 500+" program? Because we are talking about the costs of operating this programme, about the measures to be addressed to municipal authorities, but we do not have the procedure for distributing these funds, and from this we can only start talking about the costs of implementing this programme on the part of the municipal government. Second question: What about the road fund? Many local authorities are counting on this fund, and so far they have been able to count on it. Many road investments have been carried out from this fund over the past 8 years, often referred to. Third question: What about the financing of district roads? As we know, county authorities receive the so-called. measures marked, many district roads have been demoted by the implementation of larger motorway type investments, express roads, and district governments are very much counting on continuing support in this area. And the fourth, perhaps the most important question in the context of the reports that have come to us since yesterday: Who will cover the costs of debt service to local governments, rising as a result of the actions that you have taken as a government majority towards the banking sector? This will unfortunately translate, and very severely in many local governments, into a drastic increase in debt service, which has been undertaken and thanks to which many fantastic investments have been made in the last 8 years and after these investments it is probably best - according to Minister Zalewska - to assess the condition of Polish local authorities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The protest of local governments in the last term was a kind of vote of distrust for the government of PSL-PO. In fact, the transfer of further tasks and responsibilities to local authorities without funding had to end with this, ending with a change of power in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, local government debt amounts to PLN 74 billion, and no one else, only the PO-PSL coalition introduced a curiosity rate of individual debt repayment, annual debt repayment. What's causing this? Even if local governments can repay the debt they have incurred, they cannot repay it through such legislation. It's nothing more than fueling funds for banks that just waited for it. At the same time, the law, which was introduced in 2003, does not really agree with the reality of today's Poland. You have not noticed in eight years of government that EU measures have been put in place... [[Yes, we've introduced these measures, we've noticed.]] ...and small rural municipalities or municipalities do not receive subsidies for the rural programme, but have to borrow to meet these commitments. So my questions are: Is there work on a new law on the financing of local government units? Does it entail fundamental changes in the shares in PIT, CIT and possibly in VAT, as well as whether the individual repayment rate of the annual commitment will be abolished? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u145	Marshal, is it true that Minister Anna Zalewska is having a bad day today? [[Applause]] Because the way she talked to us shows that. And I don't want to say a word of criticism. It's a shame the Minister isn't here. My question is also a proposal and concerns the possibility of exploiting the tax potential of the land designated in the local land development plans to be built and unbuilt for many years. The land is subject to a property tax of 44 gr per m. According to the calculations of urban planners, Poland has a dramatic excess of land under construction, theoretically. As far as local plans are concerned, they allow 65 to 100 million people to settle in Poland, and in view of the decision of spatial development studies, it is from 165 to 325 million inhabitants. It is clear that the vast majority of these areas will never be built. Over-building is one of the main problems of the country's development. Suggested by me and by many urbanists, a progressive real estate tax on unbuilt land would increase the income of the municipalities, while at the same time leading to the recovery by the public hand of the right to build. It should be mentioned that Poland is a country in which the planning pension resulting from the conversion of land to construction is fully intercepted by the owners of the land, so the proposed solution is socially fair. So, in view of the government's tendency to increase public finances, are the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development interested in working in this direction? I'm ready to cooperate. I would like to point out that the problem is one way or another, because under the Law on Revitalization [[♪ The bell ♪]] there has been an inconsistency with the construction land balance, which will block changes in local plans. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u146	Thank you. Now Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If anyone tries to say today that the financial situation of Polish local governments is not bad, he is very wrong. This debt of about PLN 74 billion amounts to around 39% current income. The fact that in 2013 and 2015 there was a slowdown, namely that there was as much as 42% of current income debt. For nine years, I was a district councilman... [[How many bankruptcies are there?]] Please don't disturb me. It doesn't work. You're welcome. I was a county councilman for nine years. I was watching the rising debt, and actually what I said was a slight inhibition of this growth, because it had to be stopped. Where did this lead? Some, in my opinion, I believe, of the investments carried out, apply to all or almost all local authorities, it was simply unnecessary. You don't talk about that. The Council in a given municipality, having a majority, voted on the proposed investment or project. They tempted funding, sometimes very high, external and as a result could literally build a golden tower on the market X of the city. It'd go away, too. In order to be more indebted to unnecessary investments, you simply need to have your own resources guaranteed, 100%. So I ask the question: Is there going to be much more control in the near future of local governments about spending money? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u148	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to accessing funds for investment over the last years of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, it was an edlorado. Mr Zbigniew Biernat could see this because it was his best time when he served as Mayor of Zator for 16 years. But I want to go back and move... [[Voice from the hall: What are you saying?]] ...the topic that concerns the relationship of the local government - the government in carrying out the tasks commissioned. This problem with funding, or actually the lack of funding for contracted tasks, has increased for many years and affects all local governments. The underestimation scale is about 50%. It is true that almost the entire period of this problem was completely denied by the Ministry of Finance. Problems with the financing of commissioned tasks have been noticed in many NIK audit speeches. According to NINI, these tasks cannot be financed by the budgets of local authorities. Minister Szczurek took this up and expressed his willingness to seek a solution in this area, unfortunately the solutions proposed by the local authorities after full verification, including by the voivodships, were not accepted. They aimed to move away from the historical approach in this area and to prepare new and develop new standards for carrying out tasks commissioned at the real cost, taking into account the necessary wage costs, the amount of cases, the time needed to deal with these issues. Today, it is important to say very clearly: local governments are increasingly going to court and doing so effectively. They win the money they owe them in the courts. It is in the interest of the State that this issue should be settled as soon as possible. Alone last year on behalf of the war. Małopolska I applied accordingly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We won the whole thing, not a single buck was questioned. We put him back another five years. This shows that if this finance resort does not regulate, we will have to deal with a gigantic scale of lawsuits and tightening up the government-government relationship. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u150	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to address the question to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. During this term of office, has the finance minister's meeting with local government officials already been held and, at the same time, how many such meetings have been held over the last eight years, because we cannot abstract this discussion today, bringing it only to the context of the last two months? [[It's up to 26.]] The coalition government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party had a lot of time and had many urgent tasks that were... [[Let's see what you do.]] ... also declared in the exposé by Prime Minister Tusk. I took the liberty of taking note of some of these passages from 2007: Local communities will become real hosts in their territory, and the voivode will be what it should be - government representative rather than political competitor. And I saw how in Bydgoszcz, in my city, the role of this voivode was merely to the role of the political competitor of the independent president of the city of Bydgoszcz. Another quote: As I have already mentioned, we are still observing such a bad process in which the local government gets more and more tasks and does not receive money. And then you introduced things like the garbage bill, and you continued to add more and more responsibilities to local governments. And lastly: Today in Poland, few people believe that politicians go to power, to parliament, to self-government in order to serve Poles and Poland unselfishly. We need to change this state of affairs. Then you changed the situation so that after the last local elections many Poles had serious reservations or doubts about their integrity. Here's what I'm gonna say. Prime Minister Tusk, Prime Minister of your government, used the word self-government 21 times during the first exposé. During the second exposé, 4 years later, neither [[♪ The bell ♪]] One time. Today, the government is headed by the Prime Minister, who was a local governmentman. [[There's no one from the government. No one.]] The Prime Minister who... [[And where is this government?]] ...knows the only thing that really means by self-government and understands it. And I think we're...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u152	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u153	...in good hands in this respect. Thank you. [[You're so interested - where's the government?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 167 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland provides that local government units are to participate in public income according to their respective tasks and that the revenue of local government units is their own income and general subsidies and special subsidies from the state budget. Unfortunately, in order to carry out outsourced tasks for which the government does not provide adequate financial resources, local governments are adding substantial amounts each year from their own budgets. So I would like to ask: Will government level develop, in cooperation with local governments, standards for the performance of the tasks commissioned, taking into account the nature of the tasks, the duration of their implementation, the effects and the costs? Standardisation would allow for a fair distribution of resources for individual local government units, as their current situation affects inter alia. for hospitals that are heavily indebted. Local government units are not able to provide sufficient support and debt is growing. What does the government propose in this situation? How can hospitals be extended so that they can function normally and receive patients? Let me conclude by saying that this is a very strange situation: we are discussing such a very important subject, and I do not see any interest from the government. And the Minister's behavior is a separate subject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u156	Thank you. Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I have a question: - and what measures have been taken by the government in recent years to keep the municipalities financially balanced, to invest according to common sense, on the principles of sustainable development? It must be said that the government has appropriate instruments in this regard. I would like to remind you of the competence of the Minister for Regional Development described in the Act on the principles of development policy. I'm not going to develop these issues. Houses of accounts, etc. operate. These instruments of supervision of municipalities in terms of meaningful spending of money and non-indebtedness of excessive government have many. And what are the pictures of the local government? Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the fall of last year, that we read information, e.g. about the growing problems of the municipality of Wierzchosławice in the past years, which has not invested in a photovoltaic farm, after which it saved itself with loans in parabanks, did not pay ZUS. Now, after a year, the residents want to cancel their new uncle... [[From PiS.]] ...because within a year he didn't solve the long-term financial problems of the commune. Further information is available, e.g. about the approximately 90% debt of the town of Szczawnica, which prepares investments by engaging in future revenues, i.e. now is considered e.g. the lease of premises in the building, which is to be created for the money of an external investor - in the building of a health centre - and lease of these premises 30 years ahead for some suspiciously high price. Other situations relating to your Members' questions. In my district against junior high school, the loudest protests are the uncle who has built, for the past eight years, like, four junior high schools, and as long as he was a member of the PO, he still received money for this junior high school, for these investments, even though teachers and some parents protested. In short, the questions of the Members of the opposition appear, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That you were born yesterday... [[We would, but unfortunately... we would!]] ...and they didn't know exactly how drastic your government had been forcing the municipalities to add to the tasks ordered by law for the past eight years. More reflection, ladies and gentlemen. [[Just a reflection.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u158	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask two specific questions about the financial condition of local governments in the context of the changes proposed by the Law and Justice. My first question concerns the 500+ programme, which will actually implement local governments, which entails additional costs, for example in relation to the employment of people who will operate this programme. Here I will use an example: in Lublin it can be an additional 35 people, whose annual wages will amount to about PLN 1.8 million. And that's not all, because IT equipment or job reorganization also requires money. Despite the reimbursement by the state budget of the payment of the benefits currently paid by the Lublin city centre, the city of Lublin still adds 900 thousand. zł. I'm worried that it won't be, and this time, the more that the local governments are supposed to get 2%. the amounts paid to cover the cost of operating the programme, and that is probably not enough. And my second question. The amendment of the Act on the Education System introduced a change which could have financial consequences for the activities of local governments, especially those of small ones. It's about reinstating curators' control over the formation of schools and kindergartens. According to these provisions, the curators were given the right to object to the decision of the local government to close the school. I will immediately point out that I am not in favour of the liquidation of schools, that is the final last resort, and that, according to local authorities, also financial resources should go to the budget of the local government unit. I would like to ask: Can local governments count on additional resources for this? Are there any changes in the financing of small schools from the country's budget for which the subsidy is too low? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is not about covering the costs of their functioning, but about getting closer to balancing them, so that on the one hand they can relieve the burden on the host body and on the other hand, the school can function without interference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u160	Thank you very much, sir. I call for discipline when it comes to time, because not all Members will be present in time. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the 2014-2022 road and motorway construction programme, there is not a single national road or motorway which would lie within the city on the rights of the county. The national road construction programme takes into account various additional measures and local authorities do not see any justification that additional measures cannot be covered by national roads on their territory. Given the debt of local governments, the terrible technical state of many national roads in cities, the cost of renovation or construction of these roads, local authorities are not able to bear such a huge financial burden. It is often 1/3 and even more, their budget, the whole city. I have a question, Minister: Does the government provide for the financing of renovations, construction of national roads in the city on the rights of the county? If so, how much will the funding be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Decentralization was a fundamental reform of the 25th anniversary of Polish independence. The local government must be taken seriously and partnerly. Changes in interest rates in income taxes are definitely unfavourable for small-taxed voivodships, including in particular for so-called voivodships. Eastern Poland, i.e. Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, Podlaskie voivodship, Lublin Voivodeship. I have a question for the Minister of Finance: Why the draft state budget for 2016 envisages a decrease in the regional part of the general subsidy for local governments of voivodships by almost 2%, i.e. 1.9% ? After all, the voivodship authorities are burdened with additional expenditure, which they had not previously incurred, and on which they themselves must find sources of funding, among others. This will now concern the lack of technical assistance to support the European Union's resources, for which the voivodship authorities now have to secure a 15% own contribution and have previously had 100% security. additional tasks commissioned by the government, e.g. expenditure on logging of trees. I also have such a question for the Minister: Can you do a job without something as trivial as money that voivodships really have less and less? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was surprised to hear your first speech here, which asks when the government, which was founded two months ago, will apologize to the local government. I think that's the question we should address to PSL and the Civic Platform when they apologize to the local government for the eight years they took away when they were giving tasks without money when they adopted the law on foster care and didn't give money. Until now, there is a lack of money for this bill, and local governments actually only implement it occasionally when they get money from some projects. I would like to ask, when will there be serious funding for the counties, especially the districts of the land - since the start of these units they live on basically a budget plan. When will there be money to finance the county roads? When will the old men stop asking the gentry for joint investment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Henczyca, Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u167	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to ask a question about the financial condition of local governments in the context of the conduct of medical entities by these entities. Mrs Możdżanowska mentioned here, with great concern she identified the expectations of implementation, with the proposal for a new law on medicinal activities, which assumes, I apologise very much, which obliges local authorities not to transform these medicinal entities into companies in the event of a negative financial situation. And here's the question: How did the local authorities operate, that they led to such a financial disadvantage in their establishments? It was through the activity of those local governments which, through the activity of these local authorities, lack of activity, lack of reaction, that financial situation deteriorated. She expressed her concern that the prohibition of privatisation would deepen this financial situation, i.e. as if she had pointed out that the only prescription for improving the financial situation of medicinal products is to privatise them, i.e. to get rid of this obligation, and this obligation stems directly from the law. In recent years, a number of privatisations of healthcare facilities have been carried out, which have given rise to different types of doubts as to the appropriateness and form of the privatisation. In view of the above, I would like to ask whether the Ministry has information on how many medical entities run by regional governments, the county was privatised, the financial condition of these medicinal entities and the cost of carrying out this privatisation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because this privatisation often cost, the procedures cost more than the effects it caused. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Club of Law and Justice, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u169	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to data from the finance department and regional accounting chambers, the debt of local government units increases steadily and only in 2014 compared to 2013 increased by about PLN 3 billion, and already in 2015 - by more than PLN 4 billion compared to the previous year. Analysts point out that banks often give loans to local governments without due care, knowing that possible threatened liabilities will be repaid by the State Treasury, but also local authorities often make risky decisions and do not have credibility in banks, looking for rescue in parabanks. It may also be that they often offer important and valuable properties and other properties that are the work and the work of many generations. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Does the government, outside the supervision of regional financial chambers, recognise the need for greater control of government debt by state authorities? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u170	Thank you very much. We've run out of time, but three more speeches, very short. There you go, Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u171	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I may ask the applicants very briefly, but this question is addressed to the minister, maybe an ironic question: How did it happen that within two months it turned out that those who worked against local governments for 8 years saw this problem? Is that fair? In eight years of government or co-government, you haven't seen the problem of local government finances, and now you're tearing your clothes apart. This is the first case. Second thing. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Minister, I have a question: Will sustainable development be implemented and poorer local governments can count on support, not like the previous coalition, PO-PSL, when diffusion development was taken into account here? I hope these poor self-governments can count on our support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u172	Thank you very much, sir. I don't think Mr Wojciech Murdzk is in the O.R. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, listening to the statements of the Members of the Civic Platform and the PSL, it can be said that they had no influence over eight years. But the truth is completely different and I will give here the following example. District Old Towns deal with e.g. implementation of tasks in the field of government administration, arising in particular from the Law on geodesic and cartographic law, the Law on the integration and exchange of land and the relevant implementing regulations. On the basis of the example of the Ostrowice district, it can be concluded that the resources which the state budget allocates to these tasks are far from sufficient. Last year, only the District Starostwo in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski added more than PLN 0.5 million to these tasks. Of course, in the last year and in previous years, the district of Ostrowiec was addressing your voivode representing the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, but the answer was negative. Had it not been for those funds which were allocated from the county's own income, there would have been paralysis of the department of geodesia and cartography of the district's old estate. What difficulties this would bring for the inhabitants, it is easy to imagine, but certain economic processes would be hindered, because also entrepreneurs planning investments would suddenly find themselves in a very difficult situation. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question: Is it possible to hope in the near future that this vote of the Ostrowice County and other counties will finally be noticed? Because for the last eight years, there's just been a conversation with a deaf wall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u174	Thank you very much. I now ask that the representative of the applicants, Mrs Andzelika Możjanovska, speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! No specifics, no binding answers, all vague information and declarations today. And since I did not obtain information and answers, since the State did not obtain information, it means that Poles did not obtain this information either. [[You are immune to facts, Madame.]] Dear parliamentarians, today we have asked questions about concerns, about these declarations, namely: a tax-free amount, whether there will be compensation, a gymnasium, whether there will be liquidation, if so, when, and all consequences, and health care. And to answer these specific questions I counted on behalf of Poles, the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, you are still in the middle of an election campaign that passed three months ago. The honeymoon is over, 100 days are coming. I ask for a specific responsibility, not just to impose all responsibility on the opposition, because you are in charge of this country, you are now entitled to pursue your electoral programme. But we want to know him and we want him to be fully responsible for these declarations and to be able to provide information on those questions that arise. Today, local governments feel threatened not because they know what will be implemented - because they do not know what will happen. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, if the tasks were carried out, they were specific information. You're doing it and you're throwing it all on the opposition. And I'm just going to make a bitter conclusion. Today, the Ministry of Finance issued a negative opinion on the 500+ programme. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no opposition in the Ministry of Finance. There is no opposition in the Ministry of Finance. As far as I'm concerned, you're in charge. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would ask you very much to give us all these questions of precision in writing, because it is not that... we ask questions, and we receive only a vague opinion on what might be anticipated. Local governments are also seeking their own financial stability and must adapt to those announcements which today are announcements, and this is not a procession. And that's really what's causing the anxiety. Ladies and gentlemen! Today the economy is booming. We hear it from Prime Minister Beata Szydło, we hear it from Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, we hear it from the Minister of Finance. But I think you'll agree that it's not after three months of government, it's just after eight years of government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. But today there are already concerns about financial markets, lack of credibility among investors, as well as the image of Poland abroad. Thus, only with the wishes of good governance do our questions arise about the future and stability of local Poland, self-government Poland, Poland that builds the Republic of Poland, because it is the strength of local self-governments. And please don't blame us for that. Minister, this is the perfect time to ask such questions, the perfect time. That is why I always ask for specific answers, as there are specific questions. [[The questions are vague.]] And one more thing, I think it's the bitterest conclusion. But I can still see such ignorance, pride, a shoe on the face of those who rule. Not only in relation to the opposition, but in relation to even those who care, asking this question. It was you who said that this was the pride and boot that walked before the fall. I think those words were a wish for us, but today it is the country that has begun its governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[With English language 0:1.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u176	Thank you very much. I will now ask for your reply from Minister Anna Zalewska, Minister of National Education.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We will, of course, answer most of the questions in writing, although most of them were vague, because it is difficult to talk about precision in the case of a plan that we have not consummated in the form of a bill, precisely because we respect local governments, precisely because we want to hold a public and social debate that you have not been able to hold for eight years. If you hadn't left this place, but I'm less sorry, because I had to be at the committee meeting, even though my colleagues kept notes, I hope you're based on my colleagues' notes... [[Yes, also, Minister.]] ...it would probably sound like a wording here, however, concerning a fair reading of the Law and Justice programme that we are implementing. Right now we can talk about six-year-olds, we can talk about an integrated qualification system. Let me remind you, I saved the government's project, for which 69 million were spent in the old perspective, and it was at risk 2 billion in the next perspective. We can talk about the card hours that teachers are waiting for. We can talk about eliminating the test after sixth grade. We can finally talk about canceling our M.A. These are draft laws that are government projects. One's already in the public consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about a fair reading of the Law and Justice Programme. My declaration, which came at a meeting, among others. with metropolises who pretend they didn't hear it, so it has to sound here, is that we respect the money of local government officials very much. This is the first time we're gonna talk about education subsidies. No one's talked to them about this since 2003. And since our responsibility is that, as we say, we do, and we secure resources, we want to cover the education subsidy next year... Of course, you have to count the money. I am not yet a subsidy hostess until the end of 2016. I was only saving places where, effectively, various kinds of institutions, collected at the Ministry of Education, were taking out money. So we're talking clearly about the education subsidy of at least six-year-olds. We want them to be kindergarteners. I recall the words of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who are absolutely opposite to what Donald Tusk said, that children are an investment, not a cost. Mr Donald Tusk generally said that the family is a burden on the budget, which, moreover, was systematically implemented by the state. It's a news story that lived 48 hours. If we are talking about a discussion about subsidies with local governments - we have already announced this and we will repeat this, because one of the elements of the debate is the subsidy. We are talking about everything about education in this debate. We are talking about money for small centres, because the Ministry of Agriculture also wants to cooperate with us in order to properly appreciate these small schools. When we show you the project, we will already talk about specific amounts. And that's fair, not throwing passwords into the air, which are the passwords repeated by one of the relationships. At the same time, for the first time in 8 years the Polish government says that it wants to implement the most ambitious programme for 8 years, which is the standard in the European Union - 500 PLN per child. And first of all, he says he's gonna give money, and second of all, he's gonna watch out for this reform. [[There isn't, Minister.]] When I hear that one of the Members is talking about the fact that there are no computers, this is an additional disqualification of the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL. A similar situation, ladies and gentlemen, we have an education. On the one hand, we have an e-handbook, and on the other hand, there is no possibility in most schools of using an e-handbook, because the teacher does not have a computer or multimedia board in the room. Remind you of the billions spent on the Digital School and the CBA, which have even entered the ministries under your rule and which examines how Did you create an e-state? At the same time, we are talking about local governments and reminding them that we are partners for local governments also in education. Let me remind you once again that we are two bodies: the managing authority and the supervisory authority, and that these two bodies give money and take it from the tax revenue of citizens. As far as subsidies are concerned, we are actually analysing this and we are going to talk to local governments about how to put it in a different order. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us also remind you of the definition that arises from the Local Government Act, what self-government is - it is a community that is responsible for each other, it is not a company, it does not have to make profits. That's where the title of this profit cannot be achieved. That's one thing. And secondly, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to what you are saying all the time, you are showing that you have ruined the budgets of local governments by absolutely in most cases debatable European projects. For example, we're gonna prove it to each other, probably not now. But indeed local governments do not have the strength, the power, they do not have their own contribution to reach for the next perspective. It was the same in Greece, ladies and gentlemen. But that's not what discussion is about right now. This will be a long discussion when it will examine how it was, several years ago, when Greece was the largest beneficiary of European funds, and how these European funds were spent. We already have a preliminary analysis of what it looked like. You're talking about the fact that there's a need for education in the local government as well. But tell that to your residents, parents of children, those in your district. How can you look into the eyes of these parents when they say: I can't afford the school your child is going to, but I can afford to pay back the debt resulting from the construction of another 90 million aquapark, to which I will add 2, 3 million, not only when it comes to debt repayment, but also when it comes to maintenance. It would be possible to write stories about how citizens in real estate tax have to pay the price of water for all that we have received in the European Union. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, if we are discussing debt... There was a question here about regional accounting chambers, because indeed the Civic Platform has led to such an outrage of regional accounting chambers that it is an institution that only plays with adding and subtraction, counting whether the posts agree and no power, no power. They were calmly looking at the debt of individual municipalities. Few of them looked at how dozens of municipalities in Poland reached out to parabanks and fell into debt spirals. These are indeed huge challenges. We are aware of these challenges. We started a very intense conversation with the local government. For us it is a partner, and for you it was a follower of your orders. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u178	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Piotr Warczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have less than two minutes, but luckily only three questions were about health care, health care. Mr Kotowski asked an important question about the maps of health needs at which stage work is currently ongoing in this area. I would like to remind you that cardiological and oncology maps, the two largest areas of medicine, have already been developed. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Mr. Marshal, but I did not exchange...]] The rest of the work is underway and this work is due to be completed by April this year. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek asked about debt. She said most hospitals are in debt. I'd like to correct that. As far as SPOZ is concerned, 78% SPOZ in Poland everything is balanced, they do not generate a negative financial result. Thus, the debt problem concerns a smaller proportion of these entities. That question continued. The question was how this problem would be resolved. I would like to point out that the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification is working on the valuation of medical procedures. Part of this valuation has already been changed. This is an area of pediatrics, psychiatry, or long-term care. Now they are evaluated according to the plan for further fields of medicine. Mrs Ratchurek-Żelazko asked about the transformation, how many actors [[♪ The bell ♪]] and to what extent it has evolved. I would just like to say, briefly, that as far as SPOZ is concerned, they have been transformed over the last 183 years, of which 127 public entities have kept 100% shares or shares, in six of them public entities have majority shares or holdings, in 14 have minority shares or holdings, while in 36 others, they have been entirely disposed of to private entities. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u180	Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on National Defence on the draft law amending the Law on the Military Service of Professional Soldiers (Prints No 171 and 206). [[And I wanted one more word...]] I ask Mr Michael Jacha to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on National Defence a report by the Committee on National Defence on the draft law amending the Law on the Military Service of Professional Soldiers (Print No 171). Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 12 January 2016, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on National Defence for first reading. The National Defence Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 27 January 2016, asks the High Sejm to adopt this draft law. During the procedure, two opinions were received by the Supreme Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and no comments were made in both opinions. Six amendments to the draft law, including three editorial, two substantive and one transitional provisions, were tabled during the process of the bill. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u182	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Skurkiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to present a position on the Law amending the Law on the Military Service of Professional Soldiers, called the pragmatic Law. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment of the law, which was tabled by a group of Members, meets the expectations of soldiers serving in the private corps. For the last eight years under the rule of the Civic Platform, unfortunately, no one has leaned over the fate of these soldiers, although a period of 12 years of service has been established for this corps. Poland cannot afford, after 12 years, to get rid of service to the country, from service to the Republic of Poland of these very well-trained soldiers, very often trained in battles, serving in missions in Afghanistan and Iraq, who served bravely for the sake of the Republic of Poland. During our repeated meetings with soldiers, both the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence and the Senate Committee on National Defence, with whom we met several times in the previous term of office with soldiers and listened to their needs, they pointed out the need to change these regulations, they also sent dozens, even hundreds of letters, e-mails to our parliamentary offices and our senators' offices, Law and Justice also indicated the need to change the rules in this respect in their election campaign... In the Polish army now serves about 38 soldiers in the private corps. [[A thousand, I think.]] So far, the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party has disposed of 8,000 in recent years. Private Corps soldiers. I hope that it was a return to getting rid of them and they will be able to serve again for the sake of Poland, for the sake of the country, for the sake of the Polish army. During the session of the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence, there was also a charge, which will happen if these soldiers want to retire after serving 15 years in the Polish army. Absolutely nothing more wrong, ladies and gentlemen, a private in the Polish army receives a salary of PLN 3500 gross. If these soldiers wanted to leave the army after 15 years of service, they would receive only 40% of this salary, which is about 1,400 PLN gross, on hand is 1,200 PLN, 1,100 PLN, they are really very small financial resources and no one will be able to survive for this money, having the opportunity to serve their country in better conditions and of course for much higher salary. Let us create the opportunity for these soldiers to develop further in the army, and let us create the opportunity for these soldiers to power the corps of Petty Officers as well. Such opportunities will be created in the near future, not only for the chosen ones, because we have often met with the allegation that the transition to the corps of Petty Officers is just for the chosen ones, and those who do not have the so-called. their backs or they don't have so-called backs. agreements in the army, are deprived of the possibility of promotion in the Polish army. This cannot be allowed, and that is why we need to increase opportunities or give opportunities to these young soldiers. Ladies and gentlemen, Law and Justice in their electoral programme indicates the need to increase the number of soldiers in the Polish army, and those who were excluded from the Polish army by the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party will also be able to find a place in the Polish army. They will also be able to serve the Polish army and the Polish people. Therefore, I hope that the announcements by Minister Antoni Macierewicz, who spoke about the need to increase the number of soldiers, these professional soldiers, will also concern the private corps, because these are the ones who always stand on the front line, those who will always defend the Polish homeland. In a situation of crisis in eastern Ukraine, in a situation where we are talking about NATO's involvement and presence in our country, we also need to increase the capacity of our troops, including by increasing our personal capacity. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I recommend that you adopt a law amending the Law on the Military Service of Professional Soldiers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u184	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Paweł Suski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u185	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to present the position of the Club on the Act amending the Law on Military Service of Professional Soldiers. High Izbo, the amendment of this law is another example of the regulation that spoils the state. The intention of this change is, on the one hand, the submission of the Minister of National Defence to the part of the private corps and, on the other hand, the continuation of the policy of staff cleansing, filling important positions with faithful and dedicated people. To sum up, the classically adopted amendment is aimed at achieving immediate political benefits by the PiS. But to the point. This is a short amendment that essentially concerns two areas. She's tearing it down. In the first area it allows you to appoint a professional soldier, I stress, every professional soldier for a post of service higher by two and more military degrees without promotion, i.e. even the lieutenant will be able to hold the position of colonel. It is a classic mechanism to carry out quick, efficient layoffs of experienced commanders, experienced soldiers. It is also a tool for speeding up military careers of faithful people. It's also amazing that it also applies to the Petty Officers. The Minister of National Defense will be able to appoint his people as he pleases. By the way, it has already been done twice, because Colonel Jarosław Kraszewski has been in a similar situation to the National Security Bureau and recently Colonel King of the North-East Corps Support Brigade has become Vice-Commander Corps in Szczecin. And the financial consequences, which is also worth mentioning, because they will be. Those appointed will retire. And from what position will it be calculated? Of course it's the last one. This is not included in the explanatory memorandum. In the second area, the project concerns the dismantling of pragmatics in contract service in the serial corps. This pragmatism is based on a time limit of 12 years. Today there is a solution to create a very efficient, young age and spirit, I mark, a well-trained private corps, motivated to maintain high combat abilities, engage in the ministry, people who are 12 years old to be promoted to Corporal, to the degree of Corporal. Is that so much? Of course, these opportunities are maintained and can be promoted to the Petty Officers' Corps, unlike what you said, that the Petty Officers' Corps is powered in a different way. No, it is powered absolutely from the serial corps and it gives the chance to maintain a high level of training. You, on the other hand, take off this time limit, which means you're giving the solution completely thoughtless, prospectively unthinkable. The essence of the matter is that this solution, which is still in force today, offers a far-reaching opportunity to maintain a high level of combat capability. And your solution, which is not held in any of the North Atlantic Pact's armed forces, will keep this corps completely artificial, ageing, untrained to the end to the extent that it should be promoted. You are creating another uniformed privileged group, because it will also reach for retirement and, as the applicant has not mentioned, after housing. Let's remind you that the average housing check-in is about 180 and 200 thousand. zł. Therefore, the justification is also unprepared for the economic impact. I'm sure they will be, much higher than you write here. These are absolutely ad hoc political benefits, that's giving away huge money. You don't really know how many [[♪ The bell ♪]] He will benefit from this privilege of retiring. No one in the process said what a group of people it would be. We don't agree to such solutions. We don't know, Minister, what are they like? arrangements for the return to the service of contract soldiers. There's not a word in this project. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u186	Go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u187	If you want to enslave someone, give them everything. The Civic Platform will not support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u188	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that we took care of this bill so quickly. In fact, there was no other option, because it would be foolish if we allowed more soldiers to leave the army, while there is an open conflict behind our eastern border, and Europe is struggling with a wave of immigrants that poses a real terrorist threat. The defence of our country is a priority. It is the duty of each of us in this room to strive to create solutions that will give Poles a sense of security. Therefore, until now I am unable to understand what the government of PO and PSL have been guided by changes in the law on military service, when Mr. Bogdan Klich was the Minister of National Defence. Who gave you this idiotic idea to get rid of well-trained soldiers, with experience, throw them out on the street after 12 years? A few months ago, I was a soldier. The private corps felt the most changes in this bill. It was a drama when the well-trained soldiers who had just returned from the mission had to say goodbye to the uniform, and their experience and dedication to the service were of no importance here. The role of the privates has been aligned with the level of cannon meat, while the private corps is de facto the foundation of all military activities, because everyone, even the best commander, will admit that they are unable to do anything without soldiers. I'm in contact with privates from all over Poland. They want to serve, they want to defend the borders of our country, but the rules do not allow them to do so. They train, get an education, take courses, and go abroad, but this does not work because only a small percentage have the chance to qualify for an under-office course. During the implementation of these changes by POs and PSL there was no dialogue, and in fact, the last 8 years have been a demonstration of how to blow off society. In this case, you had an additionally facilitated task, because there are no trade unions in the army, and soldiers have no right to protest. Instead of taking care of Polish soldiers, you preferred to protect yourselves by introducing a law on fraternal assistance. The arguments that were given during the changes in this law only confirmed the lack of imagination and the separation from the reality of those responsible for security in our country. You assumed that we were safe, that our allies would help us if there was a threat. However, you have forgotten that history has shown us many times that we have to count on ourselves first and foremost. However, it was difficult to expect changes for the better, since for Mr. Donald Tusk the best candidate for the Minister of National Defence was a psychiatrist. [[Applause]] A lot of bad decisions have been made, which will now have to be undone... [[What about this ……]] [[The mental one.]] ...decisions that certainly did not improve security and also led to the destabilization of the army. [[What's his profession?]] The current bill introduces positive changes. I hope that it will be an introduction to work on rebuilding a strong army in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What's his education?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u190	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u191	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Club regarding the parliamentary bill amending the Law on Military Service of Professional Soldiers, print No 171. Presenting briefly the article. Point 1, under which you wish to repeal Article. 13 of the Act of 11 September 2003 on the Military Service of Professional Soldiers, I have a question: Why do you want to terminate the 12-year service of the Private Corps? Why will the soldiers not serve periodically, and the only way to release them from the service will be the lack of a successful PFF and the inadequate assessment of the opinion? Wouldn't that affect the number of reserve troops? I'm leaving the article unnoticed. Point 1 (2) of the parliamentary proposal. Then there is point 3 in which the following Article is inserted: 42d paragraph. 1, 2 and 3. The Modern Club agrees with this record. It is a solution that will allow a professional soldier to be appointed two or more degrees higher, but I hope that this will never be used, as with your colonel. The King, for political promotions. Because if that's the way it's gonna look, then of course we're against it. The next point is a logical complement to the added article. 42d. Amendments to Article 80 do not raise our objections either. On the other hand, on the subject of the article. The 2nd Parliamentary bill amending the Modern Law speaks decisively: not to any privileges. And this article unfortunately gives such privileges to soldiers who, when entering the service, had no right to these privileges, i.e. acquisition of pension rights after 15 years. Following the article. Two of your draft laws will not be necessary, first of all, to raise reserves. It is known that after 12 years the soldiers would like to remain in the army. This will block the place for new soldiers. Very little of this, the soldiers who have left the service, according to your draft changes, will be able to return, which is already frowning on in the ministry. There won't be any new calls, it's obvious there won't be any job openings in the military. Do you think that by introducing an amendment to the article? Two of your projects, you save privates and seniors because they don't have a future in the military? That's how low you value our soldiers? Private and senior privates have the opportunity to develop further. Who says the best soldiers won't be able to change the corps? If the soldier meets the conditions, i.e. a very good assessment of the opinion and the GPA, has the opportunity to continue training in the Petty Officer's school and even in the Officer's school, because, as we know, there are very often people with a higher education. Let us not humiliate the soldiers, let us not humiliate the Polish Army. We're past the legal part. The applicants point out that the purpose of amending the Act is to obtain their pension rights after 15 years of service established before 1 January 2013. In addition, this will allow for the right to housing, which is granted to soldiers who have acquired the right to pension supplies. As for the number of soldiers according to the applicants who will acquire new powers in the years 2019 to 2025, as long as it can be accepted that during the first years the amendment of the Act will not have any financial implications for the state budget, the amount estimated by you in the 10 years of about PLN 1.5 billion is an unbelievable amount for us. We consider it necessary to provide a full and fair presentation of the financial impact assessment of the new regulation, with a clear breakdown between pensions and housing and the calculation of this amount. Applicants consider that the project has a positive social, economic and legal impact. We call for positive impacts, especially their positive financial and economic impacts. In general terms, we believe that the project is directed towards further preference of uniform services, acting in the particular interest of selected groups at the expense of all other households who cannot benefit from such privileges. The project will further tighten budget expenditure, leading to a further increase in the deficit and public debt that the opposition must take care of because the governing party has already forgotten about them on election day. Before the elections, public debt grew. [[♪ The bell ♪]] at an alarming rate. Now, as you can see, you have money for everything. I'm running out of time. It's a long story to talk about. Modern will not support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u192	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł, the PSL club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u193	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party to express my opinion on the draft law amending the law on military service of professional soldiers. The provisions of the Act of 11 September 2003 on the military service of professional soldiers for the performance of contract service by a soldier state that they can be fulfilled for a maximum period of 12 years. The first major change concerns soldiers engaged in contract service and is to abolish a maximum of 12 years as a time limit for such service. According to the project, the soldier will be able to extend the service to the retirement age, which is like any other professional soldier. In this way, after obtaining an adequate age, he will be entitled to a pension, housing and other benefits. This mainly applies to private soldiers, because they are most often in contract service. The second part of the project concerns a revision of the provision setting out the rules for the appointment of soldiers to senior posts. The current rules provide that a soldier appointed to a higher post shall also be appointed to a higher military degree, which shall be assigned to the post concerned. The amendment assumes that, in specific cases, the Minister of National Defence will be able to appoint a soldier as a military position of two or more military degrees higher than the rank held by the soldier concerned without having to appoint him to a higher degree. Greater responsibilities would be offset by a special supplement that will cover the differences between your rank and your position. For example, a major soldier will be able to be appointed as a full colonel and will not be promoted, will remain as a major. The compensation for greater responsibilities will be the compensatory allowance introduced by this project. Thus, a soldier in the position of a colonel will be a major, but during his duties as a colonel will receive compensation equal to the difference between these grades. The acquisition of military degrees is conditional on gaining further levels of education, skills and further exercises. It was a matter of a unit being commanded by an officer with specific powers. This is similar in the case of taking positions in headquarters and headquarters. The revision opens the gate in this way. There is, however, a guarantee in the Act that there can be no situation in which soldiers are higher than superiors in the unit, but this can be easily obtained, e.g. by releasing the entire command of a given unit or organizational structure. We are surprised that such an important bill amending or introducing changes in the Polish army is a parliamentary project, not a government one. A parliamentary project means no government position on the subject, no resort arrangements, no detailed calculations of the burden on the state budget. In the explanatory memorandum we can read that the project does not have financial implications for the state budget and local government units in 3 years, and in 10 years it is estimated that the costs of entering into force for the budget of the proposed law will be around PLN 1.5 billion. For us, these are calculations taken absolutely from the ceiling. You can't tell exactly what the burden will be because you don't know how many percent of the soldiers will retire after 15 years. The Polish People's Party, your marshal, makes amendments to the parliamentary bill amending the law on military service of professional soldiers. These amendments, this amendment proposal, I'm putting in your hands the marshal. The Polish People's Party agrees with point one, and as for point two, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where once again the fullness of power is given to one person, in this case the Minister of National Defence, is full of doubts. Hence our amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u194	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. 10 Members have joined the question. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed proposal provides for the possibility for the Minister of National Defence to appoint a professional soldier to serve as a military officer by two military degrees or by more military degrees, without being appointed to a higher military degree. Now in the military, we have a rank identity with a position. Graduation of military degrees depends on gaining further levels of education, further exercises and skills. The point is to have an officer with specific competence in charge of a given unit. The same is true of taking up posts in headquarters and headquarters. The rewrite opens the gate at this point. The explanatory memorandum of the Act states that the principles laid down in the project would mainly concern a few cases of managers in the Ministry of National Defence. Please indicate what specific management positions will be taken into account in this Act and the financial implications of this Law for the state budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u196	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mark Opioła, the Law and Justice Club, to ask the question. There's no envoy. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u197	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Does the Ministry of National Defence have, even approximately, data showing the status of dismissals from the contract service, i.e. after 12 years of service, over the period of validity of the so-called. A pragmatic bill? Question two. Are among the soldiers who had to leave the Polish Army after 12 years of military service, also serving on missions outside the country? If so, what is the scale here? Question three. Will those who have completed 12 years of military service and are in good health be given priority when rejoining the army? One last question. Is the number of private corps expected to increase in the near future? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u198	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Opioła, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have three questions. First question. Minister, I would like to know - because there is no information in the explanatory memorandum - how many private, professional soldiers left the corps in 2015, how many can leave in 2016, so that it is clear in this Chamber. That's the first question. Second question. All the defenders of the whole system of functioning - we have agreed here from the very beginning - say here that it should look like this, but I would also like the Minister to say how it really works, i.e. What is the way here, whether it's possible for these soldiers to later pass from other corps to higher corpses, in order to officers' or petty schools. Because yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on National Defence, there was information that there was an order of 2014 from the Minister of National Defence, which says that in 2015 only 15 soldiers from the entire corps of seniors could join the officers' corps. Therefore, I wanted to know: Will this decision continue to apply or will it change? And these are all the questions I'm looking for answers to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u200	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u201	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question, Minister, why didn't you ask the commanders? In fact, there are no opinions for this project. Why didn't you talk to the commanders? They could highlight to you the prospective far-reaching effects of this regulation. It is extremely important to be able to predict what the private corps will look like, the corps of Petty Officers, especially junior officers, in which direction This will all go away because today, with a lot of probability, we can estimate that these regulations will completely inhibit the fluctuations of human resources, the movement of soldiers between these bodies. This will have a very disastrous effect on maintaining the high combat capability of the very core of the Armed Forces, 1/3 of the personal resource of the Polish Armed Forces. Also, I have these questions. This regulation provides for the return to service of those who have left. What are the rules? There's not a word about it. How's that supposed to look? How's this gonna look formal? Will this be consistent with some idea of social justice, equality within those positions that will be fulfilled or not? After all, it is known that soldiers are in certain positions and there is no freedom here. Another question. How are you going to maintain automation - or is there going to be a lack of automation - in extending contracts? Yesterday at the committee meeting, this element was highlighted by a representative of the Ministry of Finance. After all, this is also extremely important from the point of view of the fear that this body will be definitely old. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u202	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u203	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thousands of contract service soldiers are waiting for this bill, who want to serve the military and our homeland - Poland. The private corps is the foundation of our army and we must take care of them because they cannot protest themselves, they have no trade unions. The platform and modern talk some nonsense about political purgatory and political promotions in the military. The Minister should respond unambiguously to these discussions from the Platform and the Modern, these insinuations from the Seym Chamber. I have a question for the representatives of the applicants. How much does the Ministry of National Defence estimate spending on retirement in 10 years? It is said here about PLN 1.5 billion. Could this be a threat to the technical modernisation of the Polish Army or other important expenditure of the Ministry of National Defence? I would ask the Minister once again to state what kind of pension a soldier can expect after 15 years, and what kind of pension I'm really looking forward to. These differences are huge, and I think in the vast majority... no one will want to retire after 15 years. But it's important that this is re-written from the Ministry of National Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u204	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Czesław Mrocek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill will have bad consequences for the Armed Forces. From the model in which young people serve in the private corps, if they serve well, they can move to the Petty Officers' corps and thus develop... The privates are assigned to post as corporals, sergeant. They carry out more and more responsibility, remain in the army. Since the Private Corps and the Petty Officer Corps are bodies in the army comparable, the establishment of this incentive system was the most appropriate solution. The point is that all those active in the private corps, the good soldiers who want to stay in the army, get promoted. Today you say, "You don't have to try to get promoted, be private for the rest of your lives, we guarantee it to you." We're lifting the service limit on a 12-year contract. So the result will be that we will have a series of forty-year-olds, fifty-year-olds, up to sixty years old. All their professional lives, if they want to stay in the army, they're in one very narrow position. You're saying the rules for moving from the private corps to the Petty Officers' corps aren't working. Then correct them if they don't work. But your method of action is a good change, which is that you delete all the rules, you create total chaos. This bill is a response to the dissatisfaction indeed of some privates because they must be active in military service, that they must do their job well to move on to the Petty Officer's corps. That's how you respond to this dissatisfaction. Only the consequences will be grieved. It shows your ignorance of things. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The parliamentary project, where's the government? What does the government do at the time? No calculations, no government positions. So every week, every day in this room, we are dealing with a good change, which is to create total chaos and mess. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u206	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u207	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr President, Minister, if the Civic Platform wanted to listen even minimally to the words of the Private Corps, you would have solved this problem a long time ago. These hundreds of writings, hundreds of requests that reached the Minister of National Defence, which reached our parliamentary and senator offices, indicate that this is a burning problem that must be resolved as soon as possible. I understand that you have invented such a strategy for the functioning of the Armed Forces, the Polish army, but this is a bad strategy and it needs to be changed, or at least at the beginning to improve. If you believe that these young people, aged 30, 35, will want to leave the army and receive a pension of 1 000. gross zloty, you're wrong. What are they gonna do in a civilian? Do you think it's right for them to power security agencies and work nights for 4 or 5 PLN gross an hour? They certainly served Poland well, they will serve Poland well, but let us also give them the opportunity to promote themselves. Let us create the possibility of moving to the Petty Officer's corps, and also the possibility of moving to the Officer's Corps if they meet certain requirements, but do not close their opportunities for development. Because what you've done over the last few years is that you've only introduced, or maybe not exclusively, but you've also introduced the guy who had a good back, he could've been promoted. There were also those who had language courses that had good preparation, they were not so-called. They're underdogs, but they didn't get a promotion. There are dozens of cases like this, hundreds of cases, and maybe thousands of cases across the country. Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask you three questions. How many privates, [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many soldiers from the private corps have left the army in recent years? How many privates have been able to power or power the Petty Officer's corps in recent years? Third question. How many soldiers from the private corps had the opportunity to study in officers' schools, and thus, after they were completed, to power the ranks of Polish Army officers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u208	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u209	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have two questions for the Minister and the Member of the applicant. I hope, however, that this project will return to the committee again thanks to this amendment. We'll invite the generals and other military representatives to listen to them. I've had a dozen meetings, and these gentlemen have a completely different opinion from yours. And my second question is this. I would like to ask how many current reservists, the current private seniors, who left this corps before the 12th year of service, so they simply went to better jobs after 4, 6, 8 years of service, how many such privates and how many older people, as you predict, will return to the army. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u210	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u211	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! At first, I will refer to Mr Andzel's statement that he should refer to the transcript, because at the committee meeting the Minister said that he would do what he wanted. That's just pointing out, because there was a discussion about moving soldiers to higher positions, so that's about it. I listened to Members' speeches on the committee. It has been stated that only 3% of the privates leave for a civilian after the 12-year period. I am able to argue that if, after 3 years, you are entitled to a housing allowance of 200,000. zł, 100% These soldiers are going to go to a civilian because they'd have to work for that money for almost 12 or 14 years. The argument is that these soldiers will earn $3.5,000 if they remain in the service. zł, not 1.5 thousand. zł, so by making simple calculations, assuming that 100% people and within 7 years, housing checks only for these soldiers will cost the state budget almost 4,673,400 thousand. zł. This is a simple bill, because these soldiers, in accordance with your proposed law, may return to duty in six months' time, i.e. taking the apartment allowance, return to duty, continue to serve and start a career, continue their career. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm gonna ask you two questions now. What mechanisms will be put in place so that soldiers do not go to civilians massly? Please make detailed calculations for the amount of PLN 1.5 million. [[A billion.]] PLN 1.5 billion. Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u212	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u213	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, In accordance with the proposed Article. A change is introduced in the law under examination, according to which a military professional soldier may apply for another contract in connection with the termination of the contract relating to the achievement of 12 years of service. This, of course, allows them to obtain the right to provide pensions, which are entitled after 15 years of military service established before 1 January 2013. However, there are cases of soldiers who are fully healthy and fit and wish to be professional soldiers for more than 15 years. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the proposed changes, in the view of the government, are sufficient to allow them another military service over 15 years and whether other procedures are foreseen before the conclusion of the next contract for these successive periods. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u214	Thank you very much, sir. The last question will be asked by Mr Jan Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u215	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A professional soldier doesn't really become a real soldier unless he smells gunpowder on the battlefield. Till now, these are the soldiers we've been getting rid of. It's just a waste. I'm gonna call this a historic thing. Only a professional army could function in the Weimar Republic after the Versailles restrictions. This is where the training of the Petty Officers' Corps was put in the first place. The impact and effectiveness of these decisions could be seen not only by us, but also by the whole of Europe. I have a question: Will the criteria for the transition of professional soldiers to the Petty Officers' Corps be created clear and objective - objective above all? And the second question is whether retired soldiers are expected to supply the preparatory services, e.g. As instructors? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u216	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Bartosz Kownacki, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I will start by referring to the voices that flowed from the Modern side, which is very critical of these proposals for change. Although I understand the Civic Platform - de facto it defends what it has not done for 8 years, and I may disagree with it, but I understand - it is the Members of the Modern House who want to be so modern, so open and so substantive and so connected with business, so understanding the regulation of the market that later they do not even know what amount is tax-free. Then I'll ask you a question. You care about money, about how much this change will cost, and have you considered how much training, training those soldiers from whom the Polish army later resigns? [[They're powering the reserve.]] Have you considered that? I'll give you an example. If you run a company, would Mr. Petru run a bank and know that he's about to have huge jobs, would he fire all the best employees he's trained for 12 years and have accepted from the market, or would he be aware that such good jobs will be in the bank, keep them and get promoted? It's thinking about costs. Indeed, it is not true that the amounts that you are reporting are the ones that you are claiming to be 200,000. related to the housing briefing. These amounts will be much lower. But they will be, because these are the costs of maintaining these soldiers. Nor will it be that they will leave mass after 15 years, because the experience of other services indicates that this is actually a rare case. You can question whether it's right to make it 15 years, but that's how it's worked for years, now we've extended it to the next year, to 25 years, and mostly they won't go away because the amounts they receive aren't satisfactory. If such a soldier can earn about 3,500 zlotys and would get 1500 zlotys of pension, then he simply leaves, except for extraordinary situations, simply, economically it does not pay off. Although some changes might indeed have been possible in terms of years of service earlier, not before the period when the Civic Platform was in power. As regards the other issues, it was very clear here that it was possible to appoint for a post other than a military degree. I will give you an example because you would like the generals and colonels themselves in the army - I understand that they today are terrified and terrified of what is happening - but I will give you the data. At the Ministry of National Defense, I'm not talking about linear units, there are 264 colonels and 421 lieutenants for the total number of 843 soldiers. Ladies and gentlemen, the colonels themselves are in this ministry. Do you think this is normal? Do you think it's normal today that, for example, a legal counsel needs to be a colonel? Because today, in order to become a legal counsel in the military and take the right position, you have to be a colonel. It's absurd. A person who has completed an application that is 27 years old so that she can be acquired by the army and can take the right position must become a colonel. Well, in our view, the situation in which the colonels themselves are in the army cannot and cannot be accepted. What's more, this fight you've been fighting against contract service soldiers is all about that. Other data. Today we have 20,000 in Poland. Officers, 36,000. Petty Officers and 39,000. contract service soldiers. Doesn't that bother you? Over 20% are officers, most of whom are senior officers. Well, that's not what army proportions are supposed to be. And if we're talking about costs, we're talking about costs for these people, because these are the highest positions, they're the best paid jobs. If I appoint a lieutenant as a legal counsel, which is a colonel's position, then in fact, in order to hold him, I pay him a salary, but later in the event of his departure he no longer receives all these powers in the amount due to the colonel. [[What does this have to do with the project?]] I'm glad you're so worried about the money. Maybe you'll propose changes, and then the government will pay attention to them, for example, changes in matters of leave, equivalent to the holidays that soldiers receive. The record-breakers receive several hundred thousand for untapped leave. After three years, the employee loses his leave. This equivalent of an employee who leaves does not receive. I expect modern changes in this area. I believe Mr Opioła asked how many people have died in recent years as a result of this previous reform and why we are proposing these changes. Since these changes have been introduced, this contract service has been in place since 2008, so still at this stage These are individuals, because the culmination will take place in the years 2019 and 2020... [[The culmination of what?]] ...and then it could only happen to those gone. Today is not such a big problem. More than that, they couldn't all leave the service, they couldn't leave as officers or petty officers. Well, that's not an option, because the army, it turns out, would have over 50% officers or petty officers. That would be the wrong solution. Mr Mroczek spoke about the fact that we, through this proposal for change, are bringing about a situation where soldiers will not want to develop, will have very narrow competences. If you're diagnosing this as Deputy Minister of National Defence, I'm asking you what you've done over the last few years, because I don't think it's the situation, but if the military saw that there were soldiers who didn't want to grow, who really are just to get paid, then the 12 years were to thank them. Why were they kept until 12? After a year, after two years, three years, they could be thanked and not prolonged. You know damn well that you don't. These are often very well-trained and prepared soldiers who have blocked the possibility of further transition, and in a situation where we increase the number of jobs when we need more, and the country has virtually eliminated it in Poland, this is the best reservoir. With regard to those who have left the service earlier, they will be accepted on general terms, of course, it will always be taken into account that they had previously been contract service soldiers. A large number of these people, too, have asked such a question, just a large number of these people have been on missions and are therefore so valuable to the army. Is there an expected increase in the private corps? If we're talking about increasing the army, we wouldn't want the generals themselves, because today we have a huge number of generals, officers, and senior officers, and those who are supposed to be in office, it's pretty hard to find. And unfortunately, if there's an irregularity in the army, it's at the level of generals and senior officers who aren't interested in any development, they're not interested in any promotion, because when someone gets to be that colonel at the age of 30, he's not interested anymore. He's not interested in serving in the army, but he's very often interested in collecting money and keeping a low profile. So please do not charge those who are just beginning their service or are ordinary privates that they are the lazyest and least willing individuals in the army. In my opinion, it's exactly the opposite. These are the people who want to serve in the army who want to develop, who want to advance, many of them want to move to the Petty Officer's or Officer's Corps, but not everyone for different reasons, because of their education, their abilities, has a chance to move to this corps and that's why we want to keep them for the army. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczyk, as corrected. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You didn't understand, I didn't say that at present there was no desire to develop in the private corps, that the privates didn't want to develop. On the contrary, I said that they were developing, that because we accepted the principle that the Petty Officer Corps can only be accessed from the private corps, that in principle there is no admission to the Petty Officer Corps from the outside, we have a natural flow. That's not what I said, because you're removing the motivation system, you're gonna lead to the fact that there's no motivation for development, and that's why this bill is harmful. I am sadly taking part in this debate today because this debate has shown how bad a solution you are introducing, how you do not know the issues related to the operation of the Armed Forces. I asked for this - because it was a parliamentary project - to at least appoint a subcommittee so that we could discuss it. In the course of this discussion, there would be a chance for change. If you could convince us that this system that I'm talking about going from the private corps to the Petty Officer Corps isn't working well, then we can correct it. An envoy project to avoid all arrangements. And you managed to avoid it. You haven't come across a person who understands this system, in your own circle, and you're doing such a terrible project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u220	Thank you very much, sir. In the procedure of correcting, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u221	I wanted to refer to what the Minister called...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u222	But no... then maybe we can, okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u223	...that the Modern wants thousands of soldiers in the Polish Army to serve as much as they need. Today we are introducing a law at a rather rapid pace, which in fact concerns 924 soldiers, and extends for 6 years the consequences for the budget, to 4700 million with simple settlements. The Minister asked for an idea, too. It's enough for those privates who leave after 12 years to have an opportunity, for example. work, start contracts again, work for more money. And they're gonna stay, but then it's gonna be a lot less for the budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u224	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u225	So they can come for $4.5,000. And keep working. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u226	Thank you very much, sir. Oh, there's an applicant here... Minister, you're welcome. Minister Bartosz Kownacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I just wanted to point out to you that the Polish Army is rid of the best prepared soldiers, those in whom huge money has been invested. You may not understand it yet. Huge money has been invested in this, training and preparing them in this army. And now we just want to get rid of them with a light hand. This does not apply to 900 or 1,000. soldiers, only - if you want specific data - in 2016, it would be 850 people, in 2017 - 1085, in 2018 - 1871, 2019 - 4850, in 2020 - 7500. [[Ending, reaching this age, not leaving.]] This amount would grow, so it does not apply to some very narrow group of people, but to a problem that not yet today, but in a moment would arise, and the most valuable of the Polish army would be lost. And it's not like we're suddenly shutting them down and saying they won't be able to move from the private corps to the Petty Officer's Corps, but not every one of them... Those who will, will pass, but not all of them can pass, and not every Polish army is able to absorb it and you know it. You can't say that the one who didn't get into the corps didn't qualify for the officer's or the petty officer's corps has to go, and that's what the bill comes down to. Some people say thank you, goodbye, you've served for 12 years, and now you're looking for a job in the market. It's also unfair, not to mention economic losses, it's just unfair to these people.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u228	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Michał Jach, will also speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u229	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! High Izbo! A single question was addressed to the representative of the applicants concerning the risks to the budget arising from the costs that the Ministry of National Defence may incur if these series, after reaching their retirement age, i.e. after 15 years of professional service, retire. The amount quoted by you from the Modern Member has nothing to do with the estimates that have been drawn up here on the basis of data from the Ministry, where it is said that within 10 years this amount is about PLN 1.5 billion, exactly PLN 1571 million. [['Cause there's no house checks.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is an estimated amount on the basis of an assessment of what part of the series would like to take advantage of this possibility. Of course, if we took into account the figures given in the explanatory memorandum, how many serials would reach these 15 years in a given time, perhaps this would be 4.5 billion. Does that threaten the finances, the national defense budget? I would like to remind you that this is PLN 1.5 billion. I would like to remind you that for 8 years of government of the PO-PSL coalition, the Ministry of National Defence did not spend PLN 11.1 billion allocated in the budget. So what are we talking about here... So for 6 years the full budgets of the Civic Platform have not been spent more than PLN 11 billion. There is no concern about the threat of the technical modernisation programme at least for this reason or any other important national defence expenditure. Now, referring to the second argument, which is the total destruction of the wonderful years of human resources pragmatism. Ladies and gentlemen, as probably as many Members, at least from the Platform, I apologize, from the Committee on National Defence, were meeting with representatives of various corpses, so I had many of these meetings. The soldiers of the ranks, who have been admitted to the contract service in recent years, said: Mr, there, without knowledge, practically no one can become a professional. On ten, maybe one, maybe two. Those who don't... 'Cause when these soldiers talk on the ground, it turns out one or two, and maybe they don't just want to admit it to you. As far as the transition to higher corps is concerned, just the day before yesterday I was informed that the Petty Officers' School started in January with a group of further candidates for future Petty Officers. As you know, the right to apply for reassignment to a higher body is provided by the law for a serial who has served 5 years. There most of them were those who served for eight and nine years, and one for two years. Let me get this straight. That's why I don't tell you where the school is. I'll check this information to see if it's really happening, but by looking at the rules of promotion, promotion of officers, I can assume very likely that this is possible. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a request to ask the generals to listen to this 12+ bill. Mr President, I would like to ask which generals. Or those who have contributed to the destruction of the Armed Forces' command and control system? Or those who are responsible for the fatal implementation of the technical modernisation programme of the Armed Forces? This bill, ladies and gentlemen, will really solve the personnel problems in the Armed Forces. Once again, I call on other clubs to reconsider this decision, because these two important changes in the staff pragmatism we are debating today are very important from the point of view of the future of human resources, the essence and the basis of a well-functioning army. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u230	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on National Defence in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on the re-use of public sector information (prints 141 and 199). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u231	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on the re-use of public sector information, print No 141. However, I would like to make it quite clear to the High House that this important piece of legislation is being discussed today at today's Parliament meeting. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, following the decision of the Marshal of the Sejm, considered this government draft law on the re-use of public sector information and consulted on this matter the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Media, which was positive for this project. She subsequently appointed an extraordinary subcommittee to consider this draft law, which examined the draft at two meetings - on 12 and 14 January this year. In addition to members, representatives of the Ministry of Digital Affairs and the State Secretary Witold Kołodziejski present here, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, the General Data Protection Officer and NGOs participated in the work of the committee and subcommittee. The work focused on the issue of access to and re-use of public information. The opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office was also received on the project, and very carefully analysed during the legislative work. On 26 January, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs examined the report of the subcommittee. These works - as I stress - were very detailed and substantive. The report of the Sub-Committee on Administration and Home Affairs introduced nine changes, both substantive, editorial and legislative. I would also like to inform the High House that the Foreign Minister issued today an opinion on the compatibility of the draft law with European Union law, in which he stated that the provisions of this draft law on the re-use of public sector information are in line with European law. What are the key solutions provided for in the draft law on the re-use of public sector information? Firstly, the new law on the re-use of public sector information implements the European Directive 2013/37/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 amending Directive 2003/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 on the re-use of public sector information. Secondly, the Act will lay down rules and procedures for the provision and transmission of public sector information for re-use, entities which make such information available or provide it, conditions for re-use and rules for the fixing of re-use charges. Thirdly, the law will extend the possibility of re-use of archives, museums and libraries to which copyright has expired. It's so-called. Public domain. Until now, the re-use rules have been governed by Chapter 2a of the Act of 6 September 2001 on access to public information and concerned only public information. Fourthly, the Act contains exemptions and restrictions on the application of the provisions of the Act corresponding to the European Directive I mentioned just now, e.g. because of the privacy of a natural person or when intellectual property rights are conferred on third parties. Fifthly, the Act introduces a definition of public sector information that will be re-used and a definition of re-use. Because of the so-called. Re-use should be understood the use by natural persons, legal persons and organisational entities without legal personality of public sector information for commercial or non-commercial purposes other than the original public purpose for which the information was produced. By contrast, public sector information should mean any content, regardless of how it is maintained - in paper, electronic, sound, visual or audiovisual form - held by public sector entities which are enumerated in this project. Sixth, due to the specific nature of the resources held by archives, museums and libraries, these institutions will be able to determine the conditions for re-use and charging to a wider extent than other entities, but in accordance with the provisions set out in the introduction of European Directive 2013/37/EU by me. It is worth noting that the new law empowers the Minister of Culture and National Heritage to issue a regulation setting maximum rates of charges for commercial re-use that can be determined by e.g. museums. Seventhly, the Act will set out the procedure for making public sector information available on request and on the elements of the proposal and will introduce the possibility of re-use in a permanent and direct manner, in real time, of public sector information collected and stored in the electronic system of the obliged entity. After the eighth, in order to increase access to public resources, the provisions of the Act of 6 September 2001 on access to public information on the central repository of public information and the provisions of the Act of 14 July 1983 on national archives and archives will also be revised. Next: What were the key changes made to the bill as a result of committee and subcommittee meetings? Firstly, it was an extension of the scope of the subjective draft law on the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management and the State Institute of Geology, as well as the introduction in the Act of 18 July 2001. Water law appropriate changes, which allow free provision of meteorological data for reuse. These provisions, which I would like to stress, will enter into force on 1 January 2017. I would like to thank here for the very creative work of NGOs, which have raised the issue of sharing these data for 20 years, and above all for the very effective cooperation between the Ministry of Digitalisation and the Ministry of the Environment. This is a very important change, which also allows a number of actions relevant to the practical functioning of citizens, NGOs and, above all, entrepreneurs. Secondly, the application of the provisions of the Act to public sector information transmitted between public sector entities for the purpose of carrying out legal tasks has been excluded. Thirdly, the committee clarified the concept of public sector information. Fourthly, the committee has determined the legal form in which the conditions or charges for the re-use of public sector information made available without a request are to be established by the obliged entities. Fifthly, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs clarified the scope of the mandate for the Minister responsible for IT to issue a Regulation on information resources to be made available in the central repository of public information. And sixthly, during consultations between the Legislative Office and the Government Administration, in particular the Ministry of Digitalisation, the non-constitutional provisions of the Law of 16 February 2007 on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas and the rules for dealing with situations of fuel security and disturbances on the oil market, which provide that the individual data contained in the register, with the exception of the name of the manufacturer and the trader, are not public information and are made available under the Act of 6 September 2001 on access to public information. As amended, these data constitute a legally protected secret and may be made available to certain entities for the purposes set out in those provisions. So much for me to provide as much information as possible on the work preceding today's second reading of the Act. On behalf of the ladies and gentlemen of the House, members of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the subcommittees with which we all worked together, I would like to thank you for a very substantive and thorough analysis of the various provisions of this law, from both the Ministry of Digital Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment. Here I have presented some of the key changes that have been made in the course of the work. In particular, I would also like to thank for the very active cooperation of non-governmental organisations, which, in many ways and very much to say, effectively and, above all, cooperate with the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs during the process of this project. So that I can finally say with satisfaction that this draft law, which I hope will soon be passed by Parliament, will be a good offer for both citizens and entrepreneurs in the area, for example. innovation, creating new solutions that will be citizen-friendly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u232	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Polakzek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[Same again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think this time I'm going to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice less. I have the honour to present my position on this draft law on the re-use of public sector information. I would like to say that the draft law discussed at today's Sejm will represent significant progress, a change in access, its conditions and the re-use of public sector information. The possibility of using public sector information is really after these changes a good proposal and an opportunity for entrepreneurs who want to build on it, on the basis of these rules, to create new products and new services. Companies operating, for example, will be a key beneficiary of wider public sector information sharing. in the cultural sectors Or creative. The proposed solutions are and will be beneficial for the citizen, because firstly, they extend access to public sector information, and secondly, they also standardise the general principles of re-use. In the case of digitised resources, citizens will experience direct benefits in two dimensions. Firstly, they will save time thanks to the ability to reach the digital version of the resource. Secondly, they will save money that they would have to spend to get to the storage place of the harvest. So looking at our clouds of the Sejm, seeing the numerous representation of young people, I think that this law is also addressed as much as possible to the young generation, to the generation of students, students, people interested in public life, and not only. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's law increases the possibility of re-use of public sector information e.g. in the form of better access to maps, satellite images, legislation, case law, company data, meteorological data, provides better opportunities and conditions for entrepreneurs to create innovative applications and data-based products and services. For example, these can be services such as car navigation service, legal information system, smartphone applications, which allow you to determine convenient routes of public transport or find interesting places such as museums or theatres, and you can better check weather forecast. Once again on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I thank you for your very active work. And I really do not hesitate in this aspect of access to meteorological data, in terms of certain quotes, I think that the important arrangements that have taken place are to talk about the solution of, at least, this issue, which has been waiting for the content of this project for at least a dozen years. For our part, of course, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will fully support this draft law, and we do not therefore submit amendments to the draft discussed today at second reading. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u234	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u235	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, whose position I will present to the High House, will vote in favour of this bill. From a social point of view, the proposed provisions of this completely new law, which standardise the re-use of public sector information, are very important. The project, which was submitted to the Marshal's staff by the current government, was actually created by the government of the Civic Platform and PSL. This is the result of many months' work. The project was subject to extensive public consultation. There have been a lot of discussions with all stakeholders. There were also two reconciliation conferences. One can say that it is kind of a ready-made one taken over from the previous crew, which, I think, is not a bad thing because it shows that there are exceptions to the continuation of power. In our view, the decision to divide the legal issue of access to public information and the re-use of public information was most appropriate due to the diverse nature of these issues. On the one hand, we have the right to access information as an expression of our freedom. Everyone has a right to know what public authority is doing, to be able to check it out. On the other hand, the right to re-use information opens up to Poles, opens up to our entrepreneurs access to many data, the use of which primarily has a market, economic purpose. The Act aims to facilitate the re-use of public information for various purposes, including commercial purposes. A novelty is the introduction of these provisions for cultural institutions such as libraries, archives, museums which have not yet made their resources available for re-use. Here it is worth noting that the Act guarantees respect for intellectual property rights. As a result, it creates a friendly environment for the economic, scientific, IT development of the countries of the European Union. By adopting a law on the re-use of public sector information, that is why we belong as a country. The law was created as a result of the need to implement Directive 2013/37/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013, as mentioned by my previous speaker. Such a solution was adopted by 13 EU countries, including Belgium, Spain, Germany, United Kingdom, Italy. Of course, the project required further legislative work. We believe that the changes adopted in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the subcommittee in which I had the opportunity to work are appropriate. We were looking forward to the opinion of the Ministry of Environment regarding the free opening of databases of the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management and the State Institute of Geology. This involves significant losses of influence to the IMGW, and consequently to the Treasury. We have decided on the appropriate amendments that we support. They guarantee free access to information about the state of the atmosphere, the state of the waters, the state of groundwater resources to those responsible for safety. Such regulations were sought, among others. climatologists whose research and predictions lead to effective warning of natural disasters. The opening of databases for services, institutions and organisations involves budgetary changes, naturally fully understandable. It is also worth emphasising the suggestion of the Polish Chamber of Information Technology and Telecommunications that public sector information in a computer-readable format should be made available with metadata. Metadata are kind of a metric of the right information and it's much easier to reach them online. Proposed law [[♪ The bell ♪]] is a comprehensive solution to accessing public information with the possibility of re-use, which also defines the manner and form in which it should be made available. The Civic Platform will therefore support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u236	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the draft law on the use of public sector information together with the draft implementing act. According to the applicant, the aim and purpose of the project is to implement European Union law, i.e. the implementation of Directive 2013/37/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 amending Directive 2003/98 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 on the re-use of public sector information and a new way of implementing the amended Directive in the Polish legal order, which will ensure more transparent and easier application of solutions for the re-use of public sector information. So far, in the Public Information Act, the issue of re-use, the use of this information has been regulated in Article. 1.1. that any information on public matters constitutes public information within the meaning of the Act and is made available and re-used in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down in this Act. In view of the extended scope of re-use, it has become necessary to separate the provisions on re-use from the Act of 6 September 2001 on access to public information contained in Chapter 2a thereof and to regulate the rules and modalities for re-use of public sector information in the proposed law. In principle, documents cannot be considered to be within the meaning of Article. 2 Directive 2003/98 of the European Parliament is a document of the content or part of the content irrespective of how it is maintained (in paper, electronic, audible, visual or audiovisual form) held by the obliged entity, which constitutes public information within the meaning of the Act on access to public information. The main change in the proposed changes is to extend the scope of the public information, the selected resources of libraries and museums and archives to be re-used. There is also a simultaneous extension of the scope of this catalogue of documents made available for reuse, i.e. those held by libraries, archives and public museums. All documents made available by public sector bodies can therefore be re-used for any purpose, whether commercial or non-commercial, unless they are protected by third party intellectual property rights, which ensures the maintenance of copyright and copyright protection. The Act is not subject to resources held, among others. public broadcasting units, public and local cultural institutions, with the exception of museums, libraries and archives referred to above, but also the resources of universities, scientific units and kindergartens, schools, educational centres, etc., unless this information was already publicly available in the Public Information Bulletin. The proposed law harmonises procedures for access to new categories of public sector information, which will greatly facilitate and standardise this procedure and facilitate access. This leads, of course, to an increase in the number of documents or procedures, introducing certain obligations relating to the provision of public sector information, including, inter alia, information. with application support, indication of re-use conditions etc. According to the applicant, the costs of the whole procedure amount to around 100 to 120 thousand at one time. zł, they are quite low on the whole of the project and relate mainly to the publication of a manual on new regulations on the re-use of public sector information, the recipients of which will be both regulated entities and entities interested in the use of resources. The draft law on the use of public sector information, together with the draft implementing act, has many positive social and financial consequences, among which should be mentioned. easier access in general to public information, resources or works of Polish culture, also allows it to reach countries and external environments, Polish environments as well as other countries of the European Union, access to a wider range of public sector information than before, reduces costs directly related to the use of public sector information or enhances the possibility of creating new business models based on public sector information. The fact that this is a good project indicates, for example, that they admit to his fatherhood at least two quite confronted clubs so far. In view of the above, the Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u238	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u239	If there's a good project, there's a lot of fathers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u240	But there's always one mother. That's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u241	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the Law on the re-use of public sector information from print No 199. Ladies and gentlemen! When it entered into force in 1989, the so-called. The Wilczek law, probably few people realized how great it was on the path of our country's economic development. Today we know that that law has created the foundations for our economic success. Similarly, with appropriate proportions, of course, it is in the case of the Law on the re-use of public sector information. Today, we are not fully aware of the great consequences in our lives and in the economy of the adoption of these rules, but we already know today that the potential is enormous. I'll move on to the substantive issues. In democratic countries in today's world, citizens' right to any information about public affairs is recognised as a standard. The same is true in Poland, where this right is already guaranteed at the level of the Constitution, and detailed solutions are included in the Act on access to public information. In practice, we use this most often in such a way that we ask the authorities to provide detailed information on the issues we are interested in. However, the existing regulations have only taken little account of the scope and value of the information held by the public sector as a whole. After all, the public sector is not only responsible for our applications, but also for other entities, including the previously mentioned museums, libraries, institutions with meteorological data, geodata or statistics. Yet the resources of all these institutions are one large database with really great economic and economic potential. And just as a consequence of the adoption of this law will be almost completely new situation, in which data created or collected by various types of public sector entities as defined in the Act, i.e. offices, state and local libraries, museums, the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management, the State Geological Institute, will be able to be used by individuals and companies for commercial and non-commercial purposes. Of course, in part it will be for payment. Here's what I have to do, talk about two things. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for taking into account the comments made by the social side, including the Modern ones, and perhaps all clubs. I think that makes this project really good. And secondly, I want to tell you what's not in this bill. At the procession stage there were proposals from the Szczecin Open Society Institute, among others. that institute which concerned the inclusion in the Law of the model for measuring the quality of the information made available. This is an important issue, because I don't know if you know that the potential of this whole data set is estimated at about 2%. GDP. This is what we can have in GDP if this information is used, so the quality of this information is important. At this stage we do not take this into account, while the parliamentary club The modern commitment is to organise such consultations in the next year, where we will assess whether this law meets all these hopes and what needs to be improved. I invite both our parliamentary partners and the government to this consultation today so that we can discuss this very widely. Coming back - that's the shared data, e.g. Meteorological, statistical, digital maps can be used creatively, i.e. processed, aggregated and then made available to citizens in the form of completely new services, products, e.g. computer applications, smartphone applications. Moreover, the Act provides for the possibility to make data available electronically and has regulations that specify the rules for adapting data to automatic processing, i.e. in practice to online use in real time. To put it graphically, our country will make available elements from which citizens and companies will be able to create completely new services and products. This is somehow fascinating, ladies and gentlemen, because this means that today we are proceding a project that should create a whole new branch of the economy, perhaps a branch that offers services or products based on information from the public sector. This is also, in part, an impulse for social organisations, which, as I mentioned, have been actively involved in the process of this project, and for this they should be thanked, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but also for lovers of all things - to realize even more interesting and socially useful projects. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are opening a new career path for creative people and creative industries. Knowing our citizens, we are sure that we will collect this fruit quickly. Therefore, the Modern Posel Club will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u242	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, PSL Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u243	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! At its meetings, the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission analysed the government draft law on the re-use of public sector information. The project assumes that public information is an important starting material for products and services related, among others. with digital resources with untapped potential. Public entities produce, collect and store a huge amount of information and content, starting with statistical, economic, environmental data, archival materials, as well as collections. The right to information is seen as one of the fundamental human rights. The re-use of public sector information may have economic and social characteristics. And these very intentions were at the heart of the government's procedated submission. As the legislator of the European Union rightly points out, the re-use of information alongside other positive effects contributes to the transparency of the functioning of the public administration. At this point, it should be stressed that, within the meaning of the provisions of the draft law, the use of public sector information by law is not defined when one sector performing public tasks provides that information to another entity also performing public tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The provisions of the draft law contained in the committee's report shall lay down the modalities and conditions for making available information held or produced over a specified period. The project also differentiates the way public information is made available for both non-commercial and commercial purposes. The provision of information even for the most noble purposes must not be outside any control or subject to any restriction. It should be mentioned that restrictions on entities due to their privacy will not apply to persons performing public functions, as well as to persons who will waive their right to protection of privacy. It is also noted that the provisions of the Act, as regards personal data, do not infringe the Act of 29 August 1997 on the protection of personal data. The statutory regulation has also been subject to the procedure, including the possibility of charging for an obliged entity which makes available information not included in the Public Information Bulletin. The costs of the fees collected must actually be adequate for the work and consumption of the materials necessary to make the information available. High Seym! A significant time limit does not allow me to further develop this issue. However, I must pay attention to the issues of making available as sensitive information as e.g. documentation of perpetual books, civil status books, individual medical records or, finally, files and documentation of court cases and criminal proceedings. In the above-mentioned issues, the legislator envisages making this information available by placing it on an extended periodical cesarea. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u244	Thank you very much, sir. Two Members signed up for the question. Anyone else want to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 2 minutes. As the first Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u245	Mrs. Marshal! Fellow Members! My question is addressed to the rapporteur and there is a doubt which has already been raised in the opinion of the first President of the Supreme Court, concerning the making available of public information on request and a certain conflict of two legal regimes. On the one hand, the applicant who wishes to be provided with public information is obliged to submit an offer and this relationship between the applicant and the institution obliged to provide public information is a civil-law relationship, on the other hand, the refusal to provide that information, as with other issues relating to the provision of public information, is subject to administrative procedures and refusal is an administrative decision. The first President of the Supreme Court has already pointed out that this civil relationship, which will connect the applicant, i.e. who will process this information and to a large extent, also aggregate data and create some kind of new existences, also for commercial purposes... It will be civil intercourse, which will consist in accepting or not accepting an offer. The legislator does not specify the shape of this offer and, above all, does not specify the relationship between these entities in a situation where this agreement is de facto not met. We know that in today's world information is the most valuable good, the way we use it, de facto [[♪ The bell ♪]] The risk of manipulating information can create huge problems, and a public institution is quite a weak partner when it comes to civil relations. My question is how the legislator would like to dispel these concerns for the benefit of the applicant and the widest possible provision of information and the security of citizens who, in good faith, entrust this information to public bodies for other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u246	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u247	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the beginning, I would like to thank the non-governmental organisations that took part in the parliamentary work and consultations on the draft law. These constructive comments and proposals have contributed to a good change in order to facilitate access to public sector information, among others. to the data of the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management. High Izbo! I am convinced that we are at the beginning of our work in this parliamentary term on increasing the public life impact of citizens by promoting citizens' wide access to public sector information, both through the re-use of public sector information and access to public information as set out in the Public Information Act. The bill in its current form is a step in the right direction and deserves support. But since the EU directive does not introduce a mechanism to monitor the re-use of public sector information, I ask the Minister to answer two questions. Firstly, how does the Ministry of Digitalization intend to monitor the re-use of public sector information in practice after the entry into force of this law? And second question. Will there be a report on the effects of the law on innovation in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u248	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Witold Kołodziejski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization, will answer the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u249	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, One question was addressed to the rapporteur...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u250	But that'll answer that question at the end. You're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Witold Kołodziejski: Good. As far as this issue is concerned, indeed, the legal issue quite detailedly examined by the court, so, yes, indeed, this problem is currently being examined. There was no ruling of the Constitutional Court in this case, that was one of the elements indicated by the court. First of all, this issue concerns another law, a law on access to public information, so there, on that ground, it would have to be settled. For my part, we're aware of that. There is no other solution, i.e. a combination of these two roads. In practice, we do not see any strong conflict, that is to say, it has not yet come true - and hopefully it will not come true - those fears that may arise, but yet appear theoretically. Anyway, we have to keep that in mind. The amendment will relate primarily to another law, another proposal. There is also no other European regulation on the scale. As for the preparation of the bill, of course this law did not come into effect one month after the new team took over the government. She's a continuation. A tedious process, actually a three-year investigation process to clarify this law had its turbulent history. I would remind you that what the law introduces, the most important amendment of this law, is the introduction of certain elements subject to the commercial sphere, with which there were the most problems, i.e. the issue of sharing the data of archives, museums and libraries. This conversation, these discussions took place during the previous term of the Sejm, the government with non-governmental organisations, but, above all, with the Ministry of Culture, this dialogue was quite intensively conducted. There is a compromise that, I hope, will satisfy everyone: and the public, the citizens who will gain access, and the creators whose rights are also respected. This is very important. This is the break of this bill. In recent weeks, months there has been another very fundamental change, a fundamental amendment, and I wanted to thank you very much from this point of view for this rapid mode. We hope that in 2 months - under normal government procedure of conducting the legislative process - we will close the whole process, with all consultations and seym works. I would like to thank President Jerzy Poleczk very much for the smooth running of the committee, the subcommittee. Indeed, there have been a dozen amendments and I felt good will on all sides, that we are all working on this bill to improve, and this was actually the last meeting of the committee to which the Ministry of Environment, Minister Mariusz Gajda, brought this very good one, I think, for us the news about the availability of meteorological data from the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management. There was a revision of the Water Law Act and a number of other legal references. It was indeed a breakthrough, it was already the breakthrough of these last weeks of work. It is so that the weather data, ladies and gentlemen, are data for which there is one of the greater requirements as regards the Internet, from this civic side. That is, we all usually reach for them, if we count everything, weather data are the data that we use most often, so far most often it was data from other meteorological services, other countries, and not from Poland, because these were closed, actually since 1981, so it is quite important decision, also bearing budgetary consequences. All the more thanks to the Ministry of the Environment that the Ministry understood this problem and so widely opened up to these requests, also ours - I am talking about the Ministry of Digitalization, because it is one of the milestones on the road to building a modern civil digital society, an information society. As far as control methods are concerned, there is really no mechanism in the Directive or in other solutions, because it is really necessary to invent an institution, so this mechanism is not in place. Besides, in the committee it was not the form of the proposed amendment, it was only a proposal in the discussion, but we, as the Ministry of Digitalization, feel, of course, responsible for overseeing the entire implementation of this law. Firstly, we will examine, analyse, what is the state of implementation, i.e. sharing, making information available again, how many entities use it, and relatively easily calculate it, because it will be the specific institutions that are involved, and the traffic on the Internet that can be measured. But in addition, we have other tools, namely we have the Central Public Information Repository, which means there is a portal, public domain, Public Data.gov.pl, which we will use ourselves, that is, the portal we administer, and we will use these public data, available publicly. I think, in answer to Mr Krajewski's question, that this is the best way to monitor. We ourselves will ask the various institutions to share data and then we will know how effective it is. I think that's all the questions that have been raised. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you once again for your good work, very efficient. Let me remind you that we are proceeding with a law that should have been introduced a long time ago because it is about implementing EU law. Within 2 months, the full, standard, normal legislative path, with an important contribution from the Parliamentary Committee, we have managed to pass, so I think that such a smooth operation deserves special recognition. Once again, I would like to thank Mr Polczko for running the committee and all of you for working effectively with him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. I ask you to take the floor and answer the question of Mr Jerzy Polak, the rapporteur of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Maybe I can just say what I'm about to say, you just reported to the minister. Namely, firstly, we should assess this problem on the basis of a future ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal, which refers to those doubts which the first President of the Supreme Court has made regarding the Law on access to public information. The Minister also pointed out that there is no other mechanism in these solutions, both in Polish legislation and in European solutions that concern this issue. In the view of the government, the practice of applying the Act on access to public information also indicated that it is necessary to distinguish between the offer itself, which is, you can say, related to civil law... What else is simply the refusal to provide public information under administrative law, but I think it can be declared here from the level of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs that, after the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, the ruling we are waiting for here, this issue will naturally arise in order to also analyse this problem on the side of these two laws: the one that we all know is already in force here, the law on access to public information and the one which is being discussed today in Parliament and which I think will be voted on today's session of the Sejm if it has not been tabled to this draft amendment. Of course, you will decide that, Marshal of the Sejm. For my part, I thank you once again, as I have emphasised several times in my speech, for very active and creative work on this project. I think it is possible to say in a lapidar way: a good bill, addressed to citizens and also addressed to entrepreneurs, who will certainly partly be based on this, you can say, create good solutions, friendly to citizens in various aspects, I would say, not only everyday life, but also in some elements shaping new innovative solutions in the Polish economy. Moreover, some of you who were present during this debate, including me as rapporteur and representative of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, pointed out this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u252	Thank you very much. The discussion on this point is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill at the next session of the Sejm. After consulting the Seniors' Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to delete items 11 to 14 on the agenda for the lifting of the immunities of Mr Kazimierz Moskal and Mr Piotr Babinetz. The committee's reports are in prints No 184, 185, 186 and 187. I now declare a 10-minute recess by the hour. 15. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 51 hrs. 15 min 01]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period July-December 2015 ( Luxembourg presidency in the Council of the European Union) (print No 181) together with the position of the European Union Commission (print No 196). Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, to present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present to you the government information about Polish policy towards the European Union, in the European Union during the Luxembourg Presidency. The Presidency is only 6 months old, most of the important processes, complex decision-making processes, political and legislative processes in the European Union take much longer, of course, but I think it is a very good time to stop for a moment and look at the whole of European affairs, the whole of Polish policy in the European Union, also to restore a certain proportion of our perception of our relations in the European Union, which is sometimes disturbed by more or less spectacular events. I think this debate and this information are a very good opportunity to notice. It is also a very good opportunity to note that the Presidency's programme, prepared by a very experienced administration, by a very experienced government of a country which has a very long membership time in the European Union, has given a good political balance, a balance of the various objectives that the European Union has set before itself, which it offers to the Member States, but, while being implemented and well planned, it has clearly been violated by external events that no one could plan. I am thinking, above all, of two issues which have fallen on the shoulders of the Luxembourg Presidency, which have not yet been fully resolved and which have largely dominated the energy of the entire decision-making system of EU politicians, ministers in particular sectors, including Heads of State or Government. I am referring, above all, to the loss of control of the migration process within the European Union and at the borders of the European Union, and, on the other hand, to tragic events in Paris, which have brought us back to a sense of deep concentration, a strong focus on internal security issues. These are issues that are also worth staying on because, at least in this first area, during the Luxembourg Presidency, decisions have been taken which have caused great political tensions, including in Poland, and which have still not given us a clear indication of how to deal with this most serious, most crucial problem, in my view, the existential problem facing the European Union and what is linked to the loss of control of migration processes to the Union and within the Union. The first wave of these decisions, which was a direct response to the collapse of the capacity of countries to manage the migration process, even those countries that have a very long tradition and huge experience in migration processes, was the work of creating a mechanism that would be bureaucratic and quite centralised in managing migrant groups within the European Union. It was decided, in my opinion, unhappy to use the procedure, to take decisions by qualified majority, which opened the way for the isolation of the interests and opinions of some Member States of the European Union, which created a sense of the huge political cost of this decision, which resulted in the introduction of the so-called. a relocation mechanism, which, despite the enormous political costs that continue today, has not brought any of the expected results, and the effects have been very modest since the beginning. The scale of this process has never responded to the real migratory pressure we have encountered in the European Union. Despite this relatively modest scale and the mechanism that he promised to take, he announced a solution to the uneven migratory pressure on the selected Member States of the European Union, the problem was not solved, of course, as expected by us. Today, this decision is not only implemented by countries that have raised doubts about such a procedure and such a mechanism for decision-making and policy-making, but also by all countries, including those who have had great hopes of implementing such a policy based on this mechanism from the outset. Luckily, with the next weeks, the European Union's agenda in this area was moving towards solutions that are much closer to Polish policy in this area, Polish preferences, Polish beliefs in this area. I am thinking of strengthening political discourse, often also legislative decisions in the area of identification of applicants for international protection. I am referring to strengthening attention around the security issues of this process. Finally, I am thinking of a clearly strengthened focus on readmission processes and, most importantly, the sealing of the European Union's external borders and the strengthening of cooperation with third countries, in particular those that are the source of the migratory wave, often the refugee wave, which in turn indirectly influences the feeling of losing control of many political processes in the Union, finally creating significant political instability in key EU countries. This is a positive evolution, but we must remember that none of these roads, none of these concepts has been closed and that Poland is in intensive, very intensive political dialogue today in order to shape this final policy in this area. On the one hand, the policy of restoring control over the migration wave, on the other hand, restoring citizens' confidence in their own countries in the right way. The second individual issue, which had an important impact on political, legislative issues in the European Union during the Luxembourg Presidency, is, of course, tragic events in Paris. Unfortunately, it was only the terrorist attack that caused us to restore the proper course of cases with regard to the Passenger Data Directive. This directive has been waiting for adoption for many years as a result of a political misunderstanding between the EU institutions, as well as between certain countries. It was adopted only after these tragic events and significantly equips the competent institutions of the Member States with this information which can help to combat terrorist activities in fact, strengthened. The second aspect of this issue is, of course, cooperation with third countries, including in the area of counter-terrorism. The European Union has decided, to a large extent, through Mrs Federici Mogherini and her responsibility in the area of external policy, the European Union has decided to cooperate with the countries of the Middle East region, North Africa, including Turkey in the field of technical assistance, but also with financial assistance that would help these countries, of course, in particular those who wish it, because not all countries are equally interested in doing so, in an important way to improve the state of home affairs and control in matters of justice, home affairs and internal security. This is an important direction, which, of course, we are counting, will continue in the coming years. It was also undertaken to restore the reinforced attention around the Arms Directive. This directive is being worked on today, and work on it continues. She raises reasonable doubts in certain areas. I am convinced that a good compromise, which will balance the different points on this issue in general with regard to the issue of the availability of weapons, is achievable so that, on the one hand, control of arms trafficking has a real dimension in the European Union, but on the other hand, it does not take place at the expense of those who have a legitimate right to own and use weapons, such as. territorial defence in some Member States or reconstruction groups in some Member States. Let us return to the regular elements, to the regular work plan of the Luxembourg Presidency, as it was created, announced and implemented last June. I think it's worth mentioning a few initiatives. Most of them will certainly be taken creatively by the next Dutch Presidency. I will mention those that are important and crucial also from a Polish point of view and open up some possibility of political debate as well. Firstly, another report on the state of the internal market has appeared. Poland has always attached great importance to this aspect of membership since the beginning of its membership, seeing in the internal market the greatest chance for not only material, levelled competition on a large European market, but also to speed up modernisation processes, speeding up the processes of increasing the competitiveness of the Polish economy. We welcomed Luxembourg's interest in this matter, and we welcomed the fact that the Presidency, when offering a whole group of provisions called a service passport, a certain concept of a service passport, highlighted the important role of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Community market. The Community market in this area, particularly in the area of services, is still unfinished and all efforts made by all participants in this process to ensure that this market is completed as far as possible will always be supported by Poland. An important new aspect of the internal market is, of course, the digital market. This is a huge group of legislative projects. They address a very wide range of issues that should be regulated, for example because the market is developing very rapidly and a growing group of European consumers are willing to refer to this aspect of the market as a place to meet their expectations. There is a legitimate need for Europe with its 500 million consumers to be able to shape the standards that meet our requirements, our belief in the proper relationship between the parties to the digital market. The third thing that is definitely worth remembering is the mobility package. This is a package that is very well named. This title makes a very positive impression, while the content brings a certain amount of controversy. The Mobility Package, which is to refer to the revision of the Regulation on the coordination of social security systems, is, on the other hand, to a targeted revision of the Posting of Workers Directive, if it were to be adopted in the form proposed, would bring us disproportionate measures from the point of view of the objectives which the package wants to achieve, objectives which are essentially legitimate: better protection of social rights, better position for those who provide work or services on the Community market. However, these disproportionate measures may mean that, as a result, we will receive a market which will be burdened with protectionism instruments, instruments which, instead of developing the Community market, limit it at the expense of Central Europe, of course, in the first place, but, in fact, at the expense of the whole Community market. There is further progress and political dialogue on this issue, but also legislative action. Of course, energy security was an important aspect of these six months. This is a topic that has been very crucial for Poland for many years. We look in the EU institutions and in EU law for a significant strengthening of the energy security architecture in the European Union. During this Presidency, a summer package has emerged, which mostly refers to the new development of the Community electricity market. As for the direction, this is the right assumption, but given the very diverse state of the energy mix, the diverse state of energy policies of individual countries, often countries in our immediate neighbourhood, the diverse system of financing this energy change, it is necessary to avoid a situation in which the common electricity market will result in Poland becoming a country importing electricity. This is an important dimension, it draws the attention of the government and complex legislative work in this area will certainly focus on this particular aspect of shaping the electricity market so that it is also beneficial for electricity consumers in Central Europe or Poland. An important aspect of energy security policy was the issue of the applicability or activation of the European Commission, as well as other EU institutions in the field of infrastructure investment. As a rule, Poland has always stressed that all infrastructure investments, regardless of how they are financed, how they are organised from the investment side, should equally be subject to the requirements of European energy market law. This involves, above all, the Nord Stream 2 investment planned today. We believe that the European Commission should be more active in this matter. During the last six months of the Luxembourg Presidency, there has been a lot going on in terms of the Polish government's contact with the outgoing and new government to make the European Commission aware of this problem, because there is of course a very serious risk that the European Commission will make suggestions to act passively on this issue. The Polish request to activate the European Commission on the application of EU law to this investment was clearly underlined in intensive contact with the European Commission, but was also underlined in the conclusions of the European Council held in December. We have also had important events in the area of climate policy, which also have an important impact on our internal climate policy discourse. Firstly, a European mandate for a global Paris climate conference was adopted. This mandate was adopted at EU level because at global level the Union is a regional partner of this agreement in many areas. This mandate, as expected by Poland, did not provide for the possibility of increasing the local, regional reduction target or the EU reduction target above those values which were agreed at a special European Council summit which referred to the new climate policy by 2030. Finally, the Luxembourg Presidency was responsible for the way in which the Polish - EU - and thus the Polish - representation was carried out in the framework of the Paris climate conference. It ended with proposals that are satisfactory from a Polish point of view mainly because they take into account the possibility of very diverse participation in this agreement, in line with the preferences of individual participants in the global agreement and the capacities of individual participants in the global agreement. If we applied similar logic within the European Union itself, we would certainly feel much more comfortable in terms of climate policy, which raises legitimate concerns. We have also started work on this internal issue under the Luxembourg Presidency on the legal implementation of the conclusions of the European Council on climate policy. Legislative work has begun on the revision of the European Emissions Trading Scheme Directive, the ETS. These are works which I believe are the arena of problem number one from a Polish point of view in the field of economic regulatory relations between Warsaw and Brussels. This will certainly come back, but it has started under the Luxembourg Presidency. It is worth noting at least two more cases. Firstly, the Eastern Partnership Summit in Riga. He, of course, routinely and in the right direction highlighted our expectation, common, European, but especially important in Poland, that free trade agreements and the process of freeing visa-free movement towards countries that are prepared and willing to do so, i.e. Georgia and Ukraine, should be accelerated to ensure that these entries are implemented. On the other hand, one type of profession can be seen in the political level of the conclusions of this summit. This summit was extremely passive in referring to the most important fact in our Eastern Partnership or in our eastern neighbourhood, Russia's aggression towards Ukraine, with enormous consequences for the condition of the eastern aspect of the neighbourhood policy, with which we have so far-reaching hopes. I hope that the next summit on this issue will allow us to better understand and evaluate what is happening on the Russian-Ukrainian border. The last issue, certainly not least, is the issue of a new formulation of the UK membership rules in the European Union. During the Luxembourg Presidency, this process has already started at a much more institutional level. The responsibility for carrying out this process in a smooth manner remains largely with the European Council today. On the other hand, the Presidency and subsequent presidencies will certainly play an important role in putting the political compromise in practice. Most of the requests, as you know, submitted by the United Kingdom, are perceived in Poland as not only postulates that can be accepted but simply useful. I am referring to the development, better guarantees for relations between the euro area and countries that have not decided to join the euro area. Poland is in such a position today, it is de facto a country outside the euro area. We want, as is the case with the United Kingdom, to ensure that all necessary and necessary anti-crisis measures in the euro area do not affect the integrity of the Community market, so that they are transparent and open to countries that, for various reasons, do not participate in the longer or shorter term in Economic and Monetary Union. It is certainly very right that the British intuition is to put the process of European integration much more firmly into the reality of true European democracy, and its place is national parliaments such as the Polish Sejm. This is the only way that can effectively lead to a European integration process, a European process in proper democratic legitimacy. This is, of course, a very long topic. For many, the European Parliament has been a sufficient institution to ensure democratic legitimacy for a very long time. Today we know and see clearly that if we really want to embed this process in the awareness of the citizens of the Member States of the European Union, if we really want to put it under democratic control, then this control can only be done effectively through national parliaments, with a much greater, more important role for national parliaments. In terms of economic governance, too, the UK calls for the European Union to limit its normal, legislative activities to pay significant attention to the costs of its regulations, which are quite welcome. This point of view coming directly from the experience of the British deregulation experience is as worthy of support as possible and the European Union can only bring clear profits. This is not a problem for the European Union, it is a solution for the European Union, but a constant problem which is an important negotiating problem in this whole four-cart set of issues that the United Kingdom expects is the issue of shaping, placing migrant workers in the internal market, particularly in the UK market. The UK has decided to open the labour market very quickly and to open it really, unlike many other countries in the European Union. Presumably this was one of the reasons why so many migrant workers decided to look for jobs and new opportunities there, because many other national markets, despite the accession of all the new countries in Central Europe, were not open. Poland, on the other hand, will continue to support the full respect of the principle of non-discrimination in every reform, with every compromise in this area. We understand the UK's needs in this matter, and in particular these are the needs of some type of process perception, because in statistics, the belief that migrant workers are some excessive burden on social systems is not confirmed. Poles, Hungarians, Lithuanians who migrate to the UK are professionally activated above the British average, are taxpayers and workers who create the welfare of this country. However, the perception of this process, a certain level of dissatisfaction with freedom of movement at all, and from this aspect of the common market, makes there a political need on the British side to make changes in this matter. Any changes that will be proposed to us in this process must comply with this one principle, the principle of non-discrimination, for example, for this reason, not only very selfish and narrow, but for example because we should not make compromises on the common market that will restrict it. In a way, we have always spoken the same voice with the United Kingdom, pointing out that if something has a clear, unambiguous and huge positive effect on European citizens, European businesses, it is the common market and the growing freedom to provide work, services, capital transfers in the common market. This issue is certainly at the heart of the negotiations on this issue today. This is the panorama of the issues that I believe were at least the most crucial during the six months of the well-prepared Luxembourg Presidency, the Presidency, which, I think, can be said, has managed to respond to the challenges that have suddenly fallen. Not all of these responses were satisfactory, they were certainly not complete, but that is why we expect that the continuation of these processes, particularly in terms of migration, will bring us much more complete solutions during the Dutch Presidency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u254	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mrs Izabela Kloc to present the justification for the draft resolution. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u255	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased on behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs, for the first time as chairman of this committee, to present a report and present a draft resolution of the Sejm on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2015 under the Luxembourg Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Information from the Council of Ministers on Poland's activities during the Luxembourg Presidency was adopted by the European Affairs Committee on 11 January this year. and on the same day handed over to the High House. The rapid transmission of information by the government to the Sejm allows us in Parliament to discuss the events of the Presidency almost immediately after its completion. The government's information, as in previous years, was prepared in cooperation with all ministers and central offices, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for its presentation. This is already the 24th half-yearly report of the Council of Ministers for the Sejm and the Senate from the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the successive periods of the presidency. The European Union Affairs Commission considered the information provided in print No 181 at its 19th meeting on 27 January 2016. At this point, I would also like to thank the Marshal for agreeing to include this item on the agenda of this sitting. This allows us to present the information discussed at the committee meeting of yesterday to the High House on an ongoing basis. The information on behalf of the Council of Ministers was presented by Mr Konrad Szymański, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The current information is presented at a specific time, because two governments are responsible for its implementation. In November, there was a change of government, and Minister Konrad Szymański presented us with the actions of both the current government and the previous term of office. The Minister presented the progress and achievements of the Luxembourg Presidency through its priorities and key issues from Poland's point of view. The Luxembourg Presidency focused on the following issues: stimulating investment to boost economic growth, deepening the social dimension of the European Union, managing migration, but also the Minister drew attention to the issues of the Digital Single Market, the Mobility Package or the new UK position in the European Union. The Presidency's actions are also affected by current developments which are difficult to predict at the priority setting stage. As we all know, the Luxembourg Presidency has been dominated by the issue of mass migration to the countries of the European Union. Migrations proved to be a very serious problem, the Union faced a huge challenge, and the European Union's Committee on European Affairs at its meeting on 11 September 2015 jointly with the Committee on Home Affairs held a discussion on preparing Poland for the growing crisis related to the wave of refugees in Europe. Another challenge faced by the Luxembourg Presidency was terrorist attacks in Europe. As part of the fight against terrorism, the Luxembourg Presidency managed to reach political agreement within the Council of the European Union on the content of the draft directive on the use of Passenger Name Record data to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute terrorist offences and serious crime. The Commission for European Union Affairs adopted the information on 25 November 2015. In the area of the functioning of the internal market of the European Union, Poland has actively supported the process of creating a digital single market. The Commission for European Union Affairs of the previous mandate on 23 July 2015 discussed the Communication from the European Commission on a Digital Single Market Strategy for Europe. The protection of the freedom of movement of persons and the provision of services remained a priority of Poland. Poland continued to oppose the individual measures taken by Germany and France to include foreign transport companies in the rules on posted workers and, consequently, to cover them with minimum conditions of employment. As President of the European Union Committee on Affairs, I would like to convey to the High House that the Luxembourg Presidency's time is another time of active work for the European Union's Committee on Affairs. During the Luxembourg presidency of the Council of the European Union, the committee held 27 meetings. Compared to the previous six-month presidential periods, the number of meetings held by our committee was slightly lower, but this is mainly due to the fact that the parliamentary elections were interrupted for more than a month. The Commission examined 292 European Union documents, adopted 7 opinions, including 4 opinions on EU documents. In the case of one of the documents, the committee found that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity and the opinion of the committee was sent to the Presidents of the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council in the framework of a political dialogue. The Commission has also given an opinion on a number of candidates for posts in the institutions of the European Union, including Janusz Wojciechowski's appointment as a member of the European Court of Auditors during this term of office. The Commission held discussions during its meetings, inter alia. on the results of the Eurozone Summit held on 12 July 2015, reports, so-called: a report by the five presidents on completing the European Economic and Monetary Union, the results of the 21st Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change held in Paris, the state of use of European funds by Poland. In the framework of the committee, there was an extraordinary subcommittee on trade agreements between the European Union and third countries. On 8 October 2015, the Commission adopted a report on the work of this subcommittee. I might add that during the Luxembourg Presidency, the Sejm adopted 40 laws implementing European Union law. Act of 8 October 2010 on cooperation of the Council of Ministers with the Sejm and the Senate, i.e. the so-called. The co-operation law allowed for further information on the government's activities in the European arena, of which the European Union's Committee on Affairs both during the previous term and during this term of office has made reasonable and conscientious use of it. In view of the well-prepared written information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and thanking the Minister for his in-kind dialogue with the members of the committee, the European Union Commission decided to recommend to the High House the adoption of a resolution of the Sejm in which the Sejm of the Republic of Poland accepts information from the Council of Ministers about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between July and December 2015, chaired by Luxembourg in the Council of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u256	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm decided to listen to the ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Konrad Głębocki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u257	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present our position on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the Luxembourg Presidency. As part of this six-month period, a breakthrough has taken place in Poland with regard to the resignation of the government of PO-PSL and taking over power, and thus also with responsibility in matters of the European Union by the new government of Law and Justice as a result of victorious democratic elections. Given the importance of the migration and security crisis within the European Union, I will refer to these issues first and then to a few other selected issues. Among the priorities of the Luxembourg Presidency was among others. Priority called migration management. The very way in which this priority is formulated includes passiveness, an approach that lacks the will to suppress the wave of immigrants, but only the will of some attempt to control this process is expressed. The Luxembourg Presidency lacked a deeper analysis of the situation, a more strategic approach to answer the fundamental question: What is the Union's main objective with regard to the immigration crisis? Whether this is to stop the wave of immigrants and refugees, or whether there is another objective in the Union, e.g. to make the peoples of Europe a mass of multiculti, in which it will no longer be possible to return on a larger scale to the Christian roots of the continent. [[That's not the point.]] The position of Law and Justice in the face of the migration crisis has been clear from the beginning. During the famous great debate held in the Sejm on 16 September, President Jarosław Kaczyński emphasized that the principle of ordo caritatis, whose application, as it were, restores the proper order of things, must be applied in the face of the migratory crisis. First, the safety of your loved ones, your family, your own nation, and then the whole world must be taken care of. [[You're doing it in the Treasury companies. I don't know if that's exactly what...]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] At the same time... If the Member hadn't disturbed me, that would have been good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u258	I'm asking you to calm down. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u259	At the same time, Prime Minister Kaczyński also pointed out that we should help with other countries to resolve the migration crisis, but first, this aid should be proportionate to our share of the Union's GDP, and secondly, support should be provided outside the European Union. During the Luxembourg Presidency, an unprecedented wave of economic immigrants and refugees was tried with little effect. The outgoing government of PO-PSL essentially tried to flow in the main stream. At the informal Council of the European Union on Justice and Home Affairs, which took place on 20 July 2015, then the government determined the level of its involvement - the readiness to relocate 1,100 people and the admission of 900 refugees to resettlement has been declared. However, it is already September 22nd. The representatives of the PO-PSL government agreed to adopt another, much larger number of immigrants and refugees. According to this commitment, more than 5 thousand are to be relocated to Poland. persons. We critically assess the actions of the PO-PSL government on this issue. If somebody was looking for examples of a vassal foreign policy, that's it. just one example, because we had to deal with the further-reaching pressure of mostly Germany on refugees. If the representatives of the PO-PSL government were slightly stiffening their position, then it was the effect of strong opposition from the opposition at that time, namely the Law and Justice, rather than the effects of its own policies. Unfortunately, the Presidency has not prevented the practical liquidation of the Schengen area, as is currently the case. At the end of the Luxembourg Presidency there was a change of government and the current government of Poland, conducting its own, subjective policy, will take into account and take into account in particular the interests and security of Poles. Several countries strongly opposed the imposed solutions, in particular the adoption by the Council of the European Union of any amounts, even those declared by the Member States themselves. The resistance of these countries, including Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania, was unfortunately a wasted opportunity to strengthen the bond not only within the Visegrad Group, but also wider in Romania. As many of us share, it confirms the success of the summit held in Romania, which was co-organised by two presidents: President Andrzej Duda of Poland and President Klaus Iohannis of Romania. Following the terrorist attacks in Paris, the Luxembourg Presidency focused on developing instruments to combat terrorism. It is important and in line with the interests of Poland to reach a compromise in the Council of the European Union on the directive on the use of Passenger Name Record data, as has already been mentioned. There should be more similar initiatives in the future, and there are initiatives. A much broader project was presented to the European Union's Committee on Affairs today. One of the main priorities of the Luxembourg Presidency was to strengthen the social dimension of the European Union. In this area, meetings of the relevant ministers were held in the framework of the Council for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Protection. The strengthening of the EURES network or other elements should be considered as positive. However, regardless of the agenda of these meetings, Poland raised concerns about the organisation of an informal meeting within the Eurogroup, a sectoral meeting. Such meetings should not take place in the future. It is not advisable to build a two-speed Europe. Since my time is running fast, I will refer only to a few more selected threads. The key priority of the Presidency was climate policy, including preparations for the UN summit in Paris. It is important to consider it important to move away from decarbonisation in the final conclusions of the mandate to the Paris Summit and replace it with carbon neutrality. However, it should be stressed that solutions that were beneficial for Poland providing a clear basis for the use of forests and their capacity to absorb CO in the context of CO emissions settlement were successful. already during the conference in Paris itself, Prime Minister Beata Szydło and current Minister of Environment Prof. Jan Szyszko. Another important area in which the Luxembourg Presidency was active is trade policy for the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. It should be stressed here that Poland is seeking to remove restrictions on the sale of gas from the United States of America in the framework of these negotiations. This would be a very important step in terms of access to cheap raw materials. In the field of chemical industry protection too, much needs to be done in the future. The programme of the Luxembourg Presidency does not essentially include the Eastern Partnership. Today I asked the Ambassador of the Netherlands a question because, when displaying slides, he provided such information that the Eastern Partnership would be important for the new Presidency, but this point was not included in the information brochure. The Dutch Ambassador assured that the Eastern Partnership issue would be all the more important to this Presidency. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of accepting government information about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the Luxembourg Presidency, which does not change the fact that we critically assess the participation of the PO-PSL government in the Presidency, in particular with regard to the migration crisis. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u260	Thank you, sir. Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak. She will share her voice with Agnieszka Pomaska. You're welcome. [[It is not difficult to perform after such a speech.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u261	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I thought that, after the Minister's speech, we would have a chance to have a calm and factual conversation, but unfortunately, after Mr Głębock's recent proposals, we would have to talk about politics again. On issues relating to the Presidency's preferences, the Presidency's priorities would like to address a few things. First of all, to the migration crisis, the challenges of combating terrorism, which have really obscured everything that has happened in the European Union over the last few months. A few words, perhaps, about the digital market and about the policy that we are seeing in the east of Europe. As far as migration is concerned, the whole plan of the Polish government was that we should have a comprehensive plan to deal with the migration challenge. From the very beginning, we have been saying exactly what today's government is saying, that the most important thing is to secure the external borders. We need to secure external borders to deal with the challenge of migration. We have also talked about the fight against the sources of this migration. We spoke hard about return policy, without which it is difficult to solve this problem. The most important thing, however, is to create verification centres where it will be possible to verify who is an economic immigrant, who cannot afford to receive migrants and who is a refugee. The European Union has decided to help refugees who escape death from persecution. This unique one unit decision to relocate 100,000. people, divided into two parts, were part of the plan. If it had not been for her, nothing would have happened in the European Union, there would have been no question of securing borders. The Italians, the Greeks said: if you help us, show us even a little solidarity, then we will talk about presenting a plan that will enable us to deal with the challenge of migration. From the very beginning, we have focused not on empty gestures, because even if the Visegrad Group and I tried to block this plan in a majority vote, we would not have blocked it in any version of the vote. We have focused on this decision to reflect what is most important - the safety of our citizens. From the very beginning we said: if someone does not have a confirmed identity, if he does not want to come to Poland and if there is any sign of danger, he will not come to Poland. Today we see that because the Italians and the Greeks do not fully perform their part of the contract, the verification centres have not been created in the number in which they were to be created, this plan simply cannot be implemented, which does not mean that it must be withdrawn if these conditions are met. As I say, even these few thousand refugees - if they have a confirmed identity, if they are double-checked in terms of security - does not pose any threat to Poland. However, at the moment in this shape, if there are no such verification centres, it is difficult to talk about the implementation of this decision fully. We'll see if all these conditions come up. From the very beginning, we have stood firm against this and fought against the fact that there should be no permanent, permanent mechanism. The previous Polish government was against this from the very beginning. We have greatly contributed to the fact that at the moment this discussion was fortunately postponed. Maybe this plan will not be implemented at all. So that I would like us to keep our proportions here and really focus, as we said, on securing the external borders, on combating the root causes of the problem. However, if not for this comprehensive plan and this agreement, the European Union would not have been able to deal with this problem at all. Instead of empty gestures, we preferred to focus on this decision to protect Poland's interests as much as possible. The second very important thing I want to say is the digital market. First of all, the Luxembourg Presidency managed to reach an agreement on two extremely important issues. It is the security of personal data, the full security of personal data, because this directive from the 1990s does not respond to the challenges of reality. First of all, the citizens' consent to the processing of data, the regulation of profiling, the balance between the business model that is needed on the Internet and the tough protection of personal data protection, which also involves the execution of the judgment of the European Court of Justice as regards data retention, which the current government will have a problem with if it carries out its online surveillance project. It is important that this has happened in the European Union. The European Union is setting trends here and this law of the Union should be implemented here. To this, something that we cared most about and what the Polish Government introduced into the Council conclusions, namely: the Network Security Directive, so that we can fight cybercrime together in the European Union, so that cyber criminals cannot use those countries that are the weakest link in the network and that we are able to exchange the most important information about security breaches in the network. Finally, part of this package, which is an undoubted success of the Luxembourg Presidency, is the announcement of the abolition of roaming charges in 2017. After all, there will be no roaming in Europe. The last two lines, very briefly. As for what is happening in the East, because this is a fundamental issue for Polish security, Russia's aggression against Ukraine, it has managed to maintain the unity of the European Union throughout the last few months, even though various Member States have sometimes taken different verbal positions, but at the end they all voted jointly and severally in favour of sanctions, the European Union as a whole spoke with one voice. And for the European Union and for the procedures in the common foreign security policy, this unity has been maintained, which was undoubtedly a success of the previous government and, I hope, I wish this future government that this unity will be maintained in the coming months and years, because this is extremely important when it comes to the signal we are sending to our partners. Finally, the issue of Great Britain. In fact, I share everything the Minister said. The important thing is not to allow the single market to be questioned in any way whether it is freedom of movement or freedom to provide services. This is the most important thing, this is the healthy spine, the healthiest backbone of European integration. If we try to question it, if we lead to some kind of breach in this system, it would have incredible consequences for the whole integration process. Finally, the challenges facing the Union, especially migration, and the challenge of combating terrorism, are extremely difficult, extremely serious. We have managed to build a system of this kind that has at least a chance of success. At the moment, we really need to focus on securing the external borders, but here too we need to be open to the arguments of our partners in the European Union, especially since, as it seems, all political forces in Poland are in favour and it would be good not to scare citizens, not to try to put political capital on it, because now you are in charge, you are taking responsibility for all of this and it will turn against you if you do so, so I would urge that we do not throw this type of political epithet, but rather to think about how to solve the problem that is the most serious problem in the European Union at the moment. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u262	Ms Agnieszka Pomaska will make a statement on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u263	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are at the point: Information for the Sejm and the Senate about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2015, which de facto defines us this debate and makes it important for us to focus primarily on the activity of the government and, in principle, governments in this case, in this period. Indeed, the Minister's information was almost complete, because, I think that to be complete, it is worth mentioning one more event from that period, just for the sake of order, because at the turn of October, in fact, during this post-election period, at the turn of October and November, we had yet another event which, unfortunately, must be attributed to this government, namely the fight for the Maltese summit and who will go to the informal European summit on Malta. First, during this period, there was a version that the summit was invalid, then that someone else could go to the top. When it turned out that it was not possible from a formal point of view, the idea was to be represented by another country. I am talking about this and remind you of it, because in such situations the image of Poland suffers not so much, but above all the position of Poland. I think that the case of a dispute over who is to go to the summit is above all such a warning, and I hope that an effective warning, including for this government, that foreign policy, including European policy, must be conducted prudently, that diplomacy is important, that the Minister for European Affairs, but also the Minister for Foreign Affairs, must be a diplomat, and also in such cases should remember it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u264	Thank you very much, Member. I would ask Mr Sylwester Khrushch to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start by greeting people at the gallery in patriotic shirts. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] I'm getting back to the point. Ladies and gentlemen! I remember the referendum in 2003, the accession referendum, when the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice, the Euro parties that introduced us into the euro under these conditions, said that our position in the European Union would be very strong, our vote would be equal to the voice of Germany, because we have a Treaty of Nice. In the meantime, you've led us to believe that our strength has come down. very, very, very low, we have adopted the Treaty of Lisbon, and it is the Luxembourg Presidency in 2015. She showed us what real strength we have. Well, in a historical way, we have been given unprecedented opportunities to impose immigrant quotas that break our sovereignty. Contrary to the opinion of the public, contrary to most Poles, it has been led to the fact that the policy of the German Chancellor, the policy of the Herzlich willkommen imposed on us immigration quotas, i.e. our real strength, our real meaning in the European Union has been verified very quickly. What happened during the Luxembourg Presidency? There were unprecedented decisions. After all, in the streets of European cities the army appeared, the Schengen area stopped working, we started building walls, fences. After all, what happened now, what happened in Paris or what happened in Cologne... Has the Luxembourg Presidency responded to these challenges? Has the Luxembourg Presidency shown real strength? No. It has taken ad hoc and not holistic action, this must be emphasised, this is a true picture of the European Union under the Luxembourg Presidency. I will present concrete actions on the part of the Presidency. The weapons directive - full of puriazum. So we have bombings, we have terrorists in Paris, we have victims, and the European Union under this Presidency, I stress, says: We have to disarm ourselves, we have to limit access to weapons, we have to investigate those who are in reconstructive teams, those who have sports weapons. So how did the Presidency respond to the threat? Curiosically, unimaginably stupid, I'll stress. Come on. I am glad," stressed Minister Trzaskowski and Minister Szymański, the idea of a permanent relocation mechanism - that we all as Poles in a large group disagree with this mechanism. But again, it is a symbol that shows how the European Union thinks. Some have messed up, invited immigrants to Europe, said: yes, come, we will manage, and then through the relocation system they are pushed into Poland. There's no full consent for that. Come on, Turkey. We had - it was a good direction - to put out the problem there, at the source, so we were supposed to create Marshall's second plan, build factories, I was thinking, build schools there, keep Syrians or other immigrants there, in their countries. We as the European Union have agreed that we have spent 3 billion euros on Turkey, right? So we didn't want to talk to them once, but we let them at the table because their voice was important. We as Poles have spent more than 70 million EUR, i.e. 250.300 million PLN. Well? Are we sure today that we've kept an eye on the Turkish border? Are we sure that things are going well on this border when it comes to the immigration crisis? I don't think so. I am convinced that in the spring there will be another wave of immigrants, another wave that will also go to Poland. So we've spent 3 billion euros, and we're going to get 1 million, 2 million, 3 million new immigrants. It was a profit and a way of thinking during this Presidency. Come on, more things that my esteemed previous speakers have already discussed here. Case Nord Stream - the approach of the European Union under the Presidency was at least passive, which promises us that Nord Stream 2 will rise. Unfortunately, it can be seen that we have no support, no way of thinking, no Polish narrative, no narrative that could move this border of Polish influence on Nord Stream 2. In my opinion, the decision has already been made in the European Union. Come on, it's an Eastern policy issue. Here, too, Minister Trzaskowski and Minister Szymański stressed that there was no understanding for Eastern affairs during the Presidency. Did we, the European Union, or did we as Poland have an influence on the war in Donbasa? In my opinion, minimal, if not none. Have we shown in Luxembourg the narrative that flagship is spreading in Ukraine, the worst form or one form of fascism? No, it didn't break through at all. Finally, I would like to stress that the Luxembourg Presidency has not stopped the disastrous policy of the Herzlich willkommen by Chancellor Merkel. Not at all. Come on. What was the former Luxembourg Presidency? It certainly did not stop the immigration crisis in any way, it broke the sovereignty of national countries, ordering them to accept immigrant quotas, which is a historic event without precedent. And now this whole Presidency for me is leaving with a disbelief card for history. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u266	Thank you very much. I would also ask Mr Piotr Apel to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The programme of the Luxembourg Presidency was to be based on the seven principles that have already been mentioned here, so I will allow myself not to mention them. On the other hand, the result of this six-month period was the European crisis, which may even result in the collapse of the Union in the coming months. It's not just about immigrants, it's about Britain. It seems to me that the Luxembourg Presidency has done far too little to fight for Great Britain to fight for its presence in the European Union, and that for Poland is a very serious threat, because it has always been Britain that has been the natural ally of a good change in the European Union. In the near future, it is expected that in the second half of 2016, i.e. six months from now, a referendum in the United Kingdom may be held by surveys in such a way that the United Kingdom will withdraw from the European Union. Meanwhile, in the meantime, demands have been made that the United Kingdom is making as such a form of negotiation of a possible stay. It just so well happens that a large part of these demands seems very useful to me also for Poland. I am thinking here mainly of developing rules for cooperation between the euro area and countries outside the euro area, so as to ensure equal treatment for countries with their own currency and countries that do not have their own currency, just, say, a common currency. I think that these are the right demands, and I hope that they will be heard in the Union and that Poland will help the United Kingdom to stay in the European Union. This is thinking for the future and I hope that the future Presidency will fight for it more than the Luxembourg Presidency. I have the impression that this Presidency, six months in Luxembourg, has been such a sin of neglecting, indulging and failing to take care of the issue of Great Britain and its existence in the European Union. I hope that this sin will not prove to be a mortal sin for the whole Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u268	Thank you very much. And to speak on behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to ask Mr Michał Stasiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u269	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to speak substantively, but, like Minister Trzaskowski, I am tempted to refer to a few statements from the previous speakers. The Luxembourg Presidency for our country was quite specific because we had two governments in it, and what should not be forgotten was also an election campaign - an electoral campaign that used the crisis in the Union that caused the wave of migration. But let us remember that this migration is not a matter of the last few months. This sudden influx of migrants did not start the day after Mrs Merkel said it - this migration continued and hundreds of thousands of people came into the European Union. I think that the basic problem that the previous government has under this Presidency and what the current government has is, above all, communication. Undoubtedly it is necessary to agree with Minister Trzaskowski that the government negotiated safeguards for Poland regarding the influx of migrants... Mr Khrushch referred here to migrants, and I would like to ask... So far, there is not a single immigrant in Poland. Therefore, let us not talk about migrants, because the mechanism that is currently in place effectively protects us from the admission of migrants we do not want. Have you seen any migrants who are in Poland as part of this relocation? Because I don't. That's the first point. [[But we are already sending them back from the Polish-Ukrainian border.]] The electoral campaign was actually used to call on many ghouls - the ghouls of xenophobia, to a large extent, the ghouls of racism - and unfortunately these ghouls are still functioning. I would not want them to testify about Poland within the European Union. You, Minister, referred to the principle of non-discrimination. We are a nation of migrants. We have a huge number of migrants: in the Netherlands, in the UK, in Germany, in Norway. Everywhere in these countries, we demand that we be on equal terms with their people. We speak very clearly and directly about the principle of non-discrimination. Unfortunately, the other way, when we look at those who may appear here, this principle of non-discrimination, I think, is applied very poorly by us. I'm getting back to the problem. The problem is communication. Why? Because the information chaos we saw in the previous government on migration issues is continuing at the moment. The Minister - even as a candidate for minister - began by saying that Poland will withdraw from these amounts. It was a rather unhappy statement, but you weren't a government officer at the time. I think that here, in fact, good communication and a wide range of information provided to the public about what this problem looks like are extremely important. Speaking of the Luxembourg Presidency in a different dimension, which none of the previous speakers spoke about, I would draw your attention to budgetary issues. The 2016 budget negotiated should be strongly praised. It contains many important solutions for Poland, while the question we will ask ourselves... What we are facing at the end of this Presidency is undoubtedly a weakening of Poland's position in the Union, it is a change of direction from definitely pro-European to Eurosceptical. The question is, is that what you're going to do? Your office and the government where you work, whether it's just - again - a bad message. At the meeting of the Committee on Union and Foreign Affairs, in which we took part together - it was a joint meeting - Mr Cymanski, addressing you, said: It is fortunate that it is you, and not someone else, who is our representative in the Union. Because it was shortly after the speeches about vegetarians and cyclists, someone else is standing in the background somewhere. I am very pleased that you represent us in the European Union, and on all the important issues on which we come to an agreement, you will have our support. What else? You were talking about a two-speed Europe. The question is whether the end of this Presidency and the beginning of a new Dutch one, the challenges we face... And these are huge challenges. We see how the individual countries of the European Union are trying to deal with migration, as this is undoubtedly a global problem. The solution in Syria, Turkey, Greece is consistent with the policies of the great powers, which no one is talking about either. So we have a policy of the Union on the European Union - the United States, which should also be emphasised. Here we should also talk to these partners. There is a policy on the European Union-Russia line, which has also become a strong partner when we are talking about a global solution to the Syrian refugee problem. The Union isn't doing well. I would not blame the Luxembourg Presidency here, because what happened - if Poland had the Presidency during this period - would be a great challenge for Poland too. That's why I'd be very careful with that criticism. This is a challenge that really brings together the governments of all EU countries and brings together all EU citizens. We need to ask ourselves how to deal with this. This really is a very important moment for Europe and this is a very important moment for the world. That is why it is so important to remain moderate to maintain a good relationship with our closest partners. It can be hidden that our closest partner in solving problems is Germany and the creation of a conscious second front or second speed consisting of Hungary, Poland and possibly the United Kingdom, which may, as a result of a referendum at all, be excluded from the Union, from certain activities, from certain areas, is simply not beneficial for Poland. Let's talk, let's be open, discuss these problems. To the Minister's report with these comments on substantive issues, we absolutely have no comments here and we will support them. I urge you to open yourself up more to the conversations, to the discussions. Modern, as I have already said, will support this and vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u270	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, Mrs Andżelika Możjanowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u271	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club Allow me to present my position on information on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2015. I read exactly what this information contains, as provided, a number of actions of the Polish government were presented, because this discussion is also held here on the basis of the present. Minister, I welcome this document because it is a confirmation... This is a material on all aspects of the Luxembourg Presidency, which, while respecting your time, is difficult to discuss because it has 116 s. I realize you've all been familiar with him. Although listening to the rapporteur, I wonder if you actually read this document exactly. [[I just read the whole thing.]] On the other hand, I must honestly admit, by examining the information prepared by Minister Konrad Szymański, whether the Minister is concerned that he may have problems with his duties, because very substantively, reliably - and this demonstrates your professionalism - you have highlighted the entire position and participation of the Republic of Poland recently, from July to December. However, this is an objective assessment of the PO-PSL government. For a few months since the parliamentarians of Law and Justice, we have been hearing how little the previous Polish government has done, how Polish affairs have been neglected in the European Union, or how badly all possible negotiations have been conducted. And then, suddenly, on every page prepared by the Minister of Information, it is so that in the vast majority of topics it was Poland that defended its position or even convinced the other countries of the European Union to adopt the solutions suggested by us. As if this were not enough, in the plans presented by individual ministers of Law and Justice we hear mainly about maintaining the guidelines adopted and continuing the positions adopted. So we have two different informations. The information contains a number of key issues, but I will focus on just a few. Immigration problems, as has already been mentioned. In this respect, as Mr Szymański points out, Poland, in the course of the last half of the debate at the Council of the European Union, stressed the need to seek solutions to the migration problem beyond the borders of the European Union, to guarantee the security of borders and citizens of the European Union and to strengthen Schengen. Given Poland's clear and firm position on the need to seek solutions to the migration problem outside the Union, and at the same time very strong criticism of the solutions adopted by the previous government, I understand that the Minister maintains all the solutions criticised in the election campaign and both the search for solutions to the migration programme outside the European Union and the limits set for those who will be adopted by Poland will not change. What, then, does it have to do with the fact that you are planning to continue to be so strongly criticised in the electoral campaign as to take action to resolve the migration crisis? Is it because of the lack of an idea to solve this problem, or was its earlier criticism merely completely unfounded and merely part of a sophisticated political game? Another aspect is the digital single market. The Minister stresses that one of the important factors for restoring the internal market was digital issues according to the Luxembourg Presidency. Poland has actively supported the creation of a digital single market as an effective tool for a balanced, coherent economic growth of all regions of the European Union. The Presidency's work was based on the European Commission's May 2015 Digital Single Market Strategy. From the point of view of Poland, the most important issues are the development of a network of telecommunications infrastructure, the protection of the privacy of Internet users and digital services, the building of cybersecurity capabilities, the creation of a digital economy-friendly legal, financial, social environment, the building of efficient e-government, the enhancement of digital competences of society. As in the context of these priorities treat already introduced by the government, now, by the current authority, a solution in which the privacy of Internet users is not only protected, but on the contrary - completely deprived of any protection, including in the field of attorney and medical secrets. And I am referring to 36 pages of information in which the Minister clearly points out on the Nord Stream II that Poland participated at least twice in initiatives aimed at paying particular attention to the European Commission and the European Council to the project for the construction of this pipeline. How does this apply to what we unfortunately hear from the current power, the politicians of the PiS, who claim that the power has done nothing to counter the construction of the Nord Stream II pipeline? Do you realize how much the document he has prepared has really thwarted in this regard, because we see in the report on Law and Justice that he does not really agree with the Minister's opinion? Do you still have to complain and point out how ruined our country is? I am curious why in the context of energy security today Law and Justice does not raise the question of the signing by PKN Orlen of a contract for the supply of Russian oil, which makes Poland dependent on the Russians and their oil. Is it really important that the former politician and Minister of Law and Justice, today managing PKN Orlen, makes this decision? How much venom, whining and suspicion would it be if someone else outside the Law and Justice had signed such an agreement. And one last-minute update from last week, actually. The Lotus Group unexpectedly extended and increased the contract for the purchase of oil from the Russian giant. What's going on here? All the oil that goes to Poland will come from Russia? Are you really trying to put our country on the line? I think that's the question we're about to get an answer to. To conclude, I will also draw attention to two elements: transition periods and markets for pigmeat, milk and organic farming. Thanks to hard negotiations we have received acceptance of all - I stress: all - Poland's requests for transition periods for the most sensitive agricultural and energy-intensive products. I wonder what the new power will do in this regard. The last example I set out, and there are really a lot of them in the document, will be the market for pigmeat, milk and organic farming. First of all, the daily criticism of the conduct of the previous government in this area, and now in the prepared information presented by the Minister, emphasising and pointing out concrete actions and successes on more than four pages. Ladies and gentlemen, I could continue to mention it for so long, because it is a really reliable, objective document, prepared by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who evaluates the implementation and participation of the Polish government during the Luxembourg Presidency, the PO-PSL government. Since - I put the emphasis on these phrases - Poland was involved, Poland participated, Poland actively supported, did you then emphasize the country's unauthorized and reputable opinions in Poland and Poles? During the five months of the Luxembourg Presidency, the balance of accounts between the European Union and Poland reached a net balance of over PLN 8 billion. It is therefore clear that we are beneficiaries of the European Union's funds. We get more than we bring in. We're taking very good measures, at least for now. The results of the Cohesion Fund can be seen in Polish cities and towns. Therefore, I ask for a clear answer: Do you still want to block EU subsidies by reckless and unnecessary sharing of the administrative map of Poland just to satisfy your political ambitions? Why don't you think about the inhabitants of these municipalities and districts that you want to block their access to? In the campaign, I have heard many times that our agricultural subsidies must be evened out with the subsidies of farmers from the European Union. Now what? We'll wait. Now, after the election, it turns out that our subsidies are at a high level, that in some Western countries the farmer gets even lower. You are loudly shouting about defending Polish land, and you are banning its sale to Polish farmers. To sum up the information prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I find that it is not only a reliable and objectively developed document, but also a factual proof of many lying insinuations presented daily by Members of the Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Manipulation. Manipulation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u272	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz club, Mr Robert Winnicki will perform on behalf of the club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u273	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today in the European Union we have three forces. The first force is left-liberal elites of Western countries and Brussels structures. The second force is the one we have been dealing with especially for a year, although this invasion, the invasion of alien civilizations on Europe, has not lasted for a year. This is the second force that is now changing the shape, face of Europe and will probably contribute to the collapse of many Western nations and societies. And the third force we have is the strength of the national states, mostly the countries of Central Europe. Minister, from this point on, I call on Poland to use this Presidency, these coming months, to lead such a front of the national, national and conservative fronts of the Central European countries, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Fighting against the two plagues that Europe is hitting, the invasion of foreign immigrants and the dictatorship of the European Union's left-liberal elites. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u274	Mr President, time is up. Thank you very much. Thirteen people entered the list of Members asking questions. Does anyone else want to ask a question? I can't see. So I close the list and we start asking questions. I would ask Mrs Mirosława Nykiel from the Civic Platform Club to ask her first question. You're welcome. [[What about time?]] Time - 1 minute. We have a lot of things today. I think one minute is enough time to ask a question about this. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u275	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the Investment Plan for Europe, called the Juncker Plan, whose main aim is to boost economic growth in Europe. Poland has been very active in preparing this plan since the beginning. I would like to remind you that it has supported the creation of EFSI, which aims to mobilise the private sector to invest in projects that are key to the economy. I have a question about Polish projects that will be implemented under this plan. What projects will they be and which economic sectors will they strengthen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u276	Thank you very much. As you can see, perfect, there's even time left. So you can fit in with a question in this minute. Here you go, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u277	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the opinions expressed during the debate earlier, saying that Minister Szymański's speech was very competent, but I also agree with that opinion that it was incomplete, because the point is indeed: Information about the government's participation in the work of the European Union. One thing happened with the participation of the Republic of Poland definitely, although it was not previously planned and not included in the programme of the Luxembourg Presidency, but clearly took place - a debate in the European Parliament preceded by a decision of the European Commission to initiate a procedure to check the functioning of the rule of law in Poland. [[It's not that time.]] I don't want to go back to discussing who did better. There is no doubt that this was a harmful event for Poland, but I have one question for the Minister. [[It was after that presidency. It's not about that.]] Will the recommendations of the Venice Commission be [[♪ The bell ♪]] By government accepted or not? I repeat the question that came out of one of the MEPs' mouths.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u278	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the question of Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u279	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, It would probably be worth reminding some when the Luxembourg Presidency is over, but that's probably what the Minister will do. On the other hand, I wanted to put my question in line with what we discussed today in the Committee on European Union Affairs. Namely, in the declarations as the Dutch Presidency will look like, the ambassador said that the general declared objectives for strengthening the protection of human rights, the promotion of human rights by the Union outside, around the world, will also, in response to my question, take into account the guarantee of freedom of religion in the context of persecution of Christians. This is a phenomenon which, unfortunately, I think the Union is unable to deal effectively with. I wanted to ask the Minister if, during the Luxembourg Presidency, the migration problem... He actually got pregnant. on many other issues, but whether the problem of attention, intervention by the Union [[♪ The bell ♪]] and defending the rights of Christians persecuted all over the world has been undertaken and will it be undertaken during the Dutch Presidency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u280	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Michał Wojtkiewicz, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u281	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The main threat to the European Union as a whole today, for all of us, is, above all, migration, migration. The Council of the European Union has absolutely not undertaken such a study, getting to the heart of the matter, who is the main inspiration for the fact that this migration movement from the South, from the Islamic State, is the main cause of the attack on the whole of the European Union. Mostly Germany, France, the Netherlands - these are the countries where most refugees are placed. Ladies and gentlemen, the same must be said about the case that it has not taken any action to sell arms to the Islamic State, as well as to trade in oil. This is a major threat, the European Union will probably have a very big problem with this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And a crisis. Does the Polish government carry out any research in this direction? Because we need to look to the future, how the whole of Europe will behave and how Islam will affect European civilisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u282	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Andrzej's question... No, Mr. Dominik Tarczyński - I apologize very much - club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u283	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question is, in a sense, the answer to what Mr Stasiński said from the Modern, who compared Islamists, Islamic immigrants, to Poles working legally in the countries of the European Union, which I find scandalous. None of the Polish economic migrants ever demanded, I apologize for this, free prostitutes, did not want a free apartment, does not expect a social, but works hard. Alone for five years...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u284	Mr President, this is a time for questioning, not commenting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u285	...I've worked hard - I'm asking a question, in a moment, your marshal, I'd also like to express my outrage, because this is a scandal. - I myself worked and lived in London for five years. I know how hard Poles work, not because they want to, just because the Platform pushed them out of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u286	Go to the question, because you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u287	My question is very simple and very basic. Minister, did this Luxembourg Presidency actually pass the test in terms of basic immigration tasks? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u288	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u289	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, today's speech should be devoted to two people and they should do so, Mr Konrad Szymański and Mr Trzaskowski, because foreign policy is a form of continuity. This isn't one week's work, one day. This is continuity and continuation. Because young people have one word for what's been going on in the last six months: massacre, not success. Here we have too much to deal with so-called. migrants, with these amounts, etc. I am making a very specific request, Minister, as I am asking for publicity, disclosure of the transcripts of the negotiations on the so-called. refugees, from Mrs. Kopacz's government until today. What were these negotiations like? What were the conditions? What concessions? If it's classified, we have a secret firm. I think that, in the end, Members have the right to access the so-called. information first, so as not to base its knowledge on the media, on media reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u290	Thank you very much. Further questions will be asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u291	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I have a question which may not be directly related to the subject, but using your presence as a very well-oriented person on European issues, I would like to ask if the European Commission's plans really allocated a few billion euros to the construction of a transport corridor connecting the Baltic Sea with the Adriatic and then the Black Sea. And is it true that these funds are designed to construct air, rail and other transport, while waterways have been excluded? And is it true that in these cases, because France and other countries have their water corridors, Poland has been omitted in these plans, and if so, why? Is it a matter of insufficient activity from the previous government, the previous team, because I know and so on? [[♪ The bell ♪]] statements, or did someone object, because unofficially we also receive information that there were objections to Poland's inclusion in these plans? And will the current government turn on...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u292	Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u293	...rebuilding Polish waterways to the current economic plan of the European Union? Will you at least take action in this direction? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u294	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask if, during the Luxembourg Presidency, measures were being taken in the European Union to digitise scientific libraries and make them accessible to one another? This programme was launched in the sixth term of office of the European Parliament. I realise that, in the face of migratory problems, so extremely important to all of us, this is not a priority, but if I could get this information, I would be grateful. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u296	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Robert Winnicki, the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Bartosz Józwiak, also a Kukiz club15. There isn't. In that case, I would like to ask Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u297	High Izbo! I have a question about the Polish position, the position of the Polish government with regard to solving the migration problem at European level. Given the scale of this crisis, it would be expected that the Polish government will engage in constructive dialogue with the Member States and European institutions. This dialogue should be directed towards achieving an effective solution from the point of view of the countries most affected by the migration crisis, but at the same time, which is very important, taking into account the interests and specificities of our country. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the Polish government, in addition to criticising the idea of the algorithm of the division of migrants, has taken any action to define this algorithm in a way that is beneficial for Poland, taking into account the conditions and factors relevant to our country. What exactly was the government's position in this regard in the negotiations with the Commission? I would also like to ask if the government has undertaken specific discussions with the European Commission on mechanisms allowing for the adoption in Poland of refugees with a profile that would give the best chance of integration in Polish society and the labour market. Has the government finally taken action to exchange experience with other countries [[♪ The bell ♪]] Member States to create an effective system for the reception and integration of immigrants?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u298	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz Club15. There isn't. In that case, I ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On 8 January, an OECD meeting was held in Paris, where it was announced that most of the social resources would be allocated to the employment of immigrants who would come from Asia Minor and North Africa. My question is: How much is there and from what sources? They're coming? Second question. I wanted to ask what programming work on migration, immigrants are being carried out in the Council of Europe or in the European Commission. The fact that materials concerning the demographic situation in all countries, including in European countries, are very well collected, very well documented, I know that, therefore, I want to know what work is being done in this area and what this work results from for Poland as well. My third question, very short, Mrs Marshal, concerns what those who came to Poland do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2015 from the former countries of the Soviet Union. Over 1 million people have arrived. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u300	Thank you very much, Member. And I see that Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, the Kukiz club15, entered the room. Then I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u301	Thank you very much, Marshal. Every time your marshal is holding a sitting, I'm very lucky and I ask good questions. I would like to address the following questions to Minister Szymanski. How does the Polish government negotiate this famous TTiP, or transatlantic agreement? We don't really know who's running it, or at what stage. they are found, which possible threats for Polish entrepreneurs will have this agreement. It's pretty classified. The second point is the European patent. Besides, he's very attached to TTiP. Do we have protection for Polish companies here? Because it's a big problem. I've been talking to people from the patent office. They feel threatened. The third point is the government's position on the referendum. Can a referendum - when we hold such a referendum as a Kukiz movement towards immigrants - be justified and presented as a binding position in the European Union? And fourth question: Does the government intend to take action [[♪ The bell ♪]] - that's the last - to reveal the so-called. Lux-Wiki, which is a scandal involving the Luxembourg government, which allowed 300 companies to drain huge money...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u302	Mr President, we are out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u303	Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u304	Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, and then the representative of the committee, Mrs Izabela Kloc.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u305	At one point, it occurred to me that some of the compliments I heard weren't entirely honest. It turned out that they were completely dishonest. I think you should read this document in a specific way. This is government information about government work, actually two governments over the six-month period. If, therefore, the State refers to the wording of this information which refers to the implementation of the government's position or to one or another of the government's positions, it must be borne in mind that it refers to the government's position at a given point in time. It would be difficult for government information from the work to contain polemic threads and some ex post evaluations. This is just a register of cases that were taken by individual offices. It is a fact, perhaps some in this Chamber, but the fact is that Poland's membership of the European Union is covered by a relatively broad political consensus, in particular on individual sectoral issues. It seems to me that it builds the strength of our European policy rather than some weakness or weakness. In many regulatory areas - this has sounded in this debate, I think very clearly - such as the common market, the policy towards the East, I hope that also migration policy, the solution to migration, we will be able to create, expand Poland's consensus so that the Polish position is as strong as possible in the European forum. It is usually the case that countries that succeed in the European Union are those that do not engage in radical polemics in terms of their objectives towards the European Union. These are comments on the framework of this debate. I don't think it would be good for us - especially by force - to look for elements that Polish politics and its continuity should overwhelm. This does not mean that political change in Poland is meant to mean total continuity, no changes in the area of relations between Warsaw and Brussels. Some of the voices in this debate actually referred to the undisclosed dissatisfiedness of this change, suggesting some very aggregated opinions about whether we are enthusiasts or skeptics. It seems to me that this goes beyond the scope of this discussion, because this is a meta-discussion that goes on from time to time in some parts of Europe. I think that when we talk in Parliament about a very specific report on the activity of the country in the European Union, we should focus on the concrete and not look there for confirmation of some very, very general hypothesis. To put it simply, there are things in the European Union that I am very enthusiastic about, and there are things that I am very skeptical about. This does not consist in any aggregate view that would prejudice the position of the 100 different cases that will appear before us. It seems to me that such a policy of predefined position, let us say that we will always be satisfied or always dissatisfied, was a symptom of stupidity of Polish politics rather than refining it. I think that refining Polish European policy is an important element and should be a valuable dimension, because Poland has no reason to reduce its position in some tacky way to a shallow yes or no. Poland has 100 different matters to attend to in the European Union, Poland must present a position which will be well understood by our partners and, of course, make very clear what we like and what we do not. It seems to me that the whole sense of law and justice policy for a very long time, starting with the accession referendum, was precisely to break up such aggregate, generalized, shallow behaviour towards the European Union or towards Europe. It also seems to me that the maturity of the countries of the European Union is that they are able to say more about the European Union than yes or no, either they like it or they don't like it. There are different issues in the European Union, there are those that are added value to our policy, there are those that are not added value to our policy, and the country, a mature country, must be able to do so simply. One of the dimensions of changes throughout the European Union, but also in Poland, is probably the growing scepticism about any central, bureaucratic attempts from the level of Brussels, in addition with very specific procedures, saying the most comprehensive, not transparent, management of the migration crisis. I think it doesn't take long to find answers to the question whether we've dealt with this crisis. The migration crisis is an unsolved crisis in the European Union. These words, this opinion, are not addressed to the Luxembourg Presidency, because no Presidency, in fact, as an organ that organises the work of the Union, will be able to cope with this existential, complicated, very serious, in my opinion, with the biggest crisis we have had so far in Europe. It's a responsibility. All of us. Contrary to what people think, whose opinions are extremely shallow about the construction of the European Union, policies in the European Union are made up of Member States, at least those who want to speak with their own voice and clearly what they want. This process is not suspended in some political vacuum, it does not depend on the Presidency, it does not even depend on the European Commission, it is increasingly - we can have one or another relationship - it depends on the active countries that want to take matters into their own hands. Poland today is a country that wants to take matters into its own hands. To answer the question about active migration policies, I can say that I think you can see it with the naked eye. The debut of the new government and the debut of Prime Minister Beata Szydło at the European Council level took place at the occasion of the extraordinary summit of the European Union and Turkey, and was continued at the regular summit in December. Both of these summits respond to our own expectations in the area of solving the migration problem. Both of these summits have actually been very firmly rooted in the agenda of the European Union, not a new one, but a very fundamental view that we are close to solving the migration crisis. The first issue is cooperation with third countries at source. This is serious. I'll get back to that when I comment on Turkey. The second issue, of course, is to strengthen the external border, which is important not only for restoring control of migration flows, but also for the survival of the Schengen area. We can laugh at the fact that politicians today who are talking about mini-Schengen do not have a clear conscience about this, because some politicians have never really wanted a broad Union, did not want a broad Schengen and today is taking advantage of the opportunity to warm up this topic. But fears, fears, doubts of society as it were, the cores of those countries that are deeper within the European Union and do not in fact manage, with the exception of airports, the external borders, the concerns of the Dutch or Germany societies as to whether this state of control of the external border gives rise to the maintenance of the Schengen area, are fully justified. We can't go sideways and acknowledge that we want Schengen because we want to. If we want Schengen, we need to prove that we are actually committed, constructively committed to ensuring that the external border is protected. Today, happily, the border that broke is not the border for which we are directly responsible. But that doesn't mean it's completely neutral from our point of view. The fact that the southern border is in the state it is in today is also a Polish concern. Therefore, from the beginning Poland offered technical assistance, already realized, from the beginning it offered financial assistance, also to a large extent implemented. Soon, on 4 February, Prime Minister Beata Szydło is going to attend the Donor Conference on the Fund for Syria for exactly the same purpose, to repeat the Polish position on this matter. We are very committed, very ready to cooperate constructively at EU level in these two areas, while we are equally strongly opposed to relocation mechanisms or any other type of mechanism. We believe that Member States should control their migration policies, their refugee policies. That doesn't mean we're going to have immigration and refugee policy in the form of one big zero somewhere on the horizon. That would be absurd, let's face it. Poland has been leading a responsible, narrow but refugee policy for 25 years because we understand that we have humanitarian obligations towards those who really need international protection. Poland is leading, and will probably lead an even wider immigration policy, because these are the circumstances of the labour market in Europe, also in Poland. This is our own intention and no one has to force us to do so, while Poland will not agree to mechanisms that de facto limit the possibility of applying national instruments to implement this policy. In this sense, Poland retains all existing refugee policy instruments by answering questions about criteria. It has the right, and will exercise this right, to shape criteria for admission of persons, including as part of the relocation system, according to its own preferences, according to its own beliefs, according to its own view of the situation we are dealing with in the Middle East. This is an unprecedented situation even for those countries that have a huge migratory experience. There have never been so many people at the gates of Europe or in Europe alone who today are applying for refugee status and are applying for international protection. So far, we have been used everywhere in Europe to give this kind of status to individuals, about whom we know exactly what their condition is. Today we are dealing with this kind of expectation from huge groups of people. This is a situation for which Europe is not prepared. What we also communicate to our Western partners is that we all, even those countries that are most experienced in this area, cannot cope with this scale. This probably requires other means. As far as Turkey is concerned, contrary to what has been said here, no one has paid EUR 3 billion for Turkey, and therefore Poland has not paid any EUR 70 million for Turkey. This mechanism is a little more complicated. We have declared our willingness to implement such a plan if we have an offer and a factual basis to believe that Turkey will fulfil its responsibilities. The fact is that Europe has lost its ability to control the external border in the Aegean Sea. This is very sad news because we promised each other that we would do it, but unfortunately we can't do it. This means that we need to become, say, partners - I think, in some eyes of customers - third countries that are more or less willing to approach this type of offer and try to exploit it and, at the same time, deal with various interests. There is nothing unusual about this, this is a natural situation, if we are weakening, and in this case we have shown weakness, which is visible to the naked eye in every corner of the world. Therefore, I think that there is no reason to resent the fact that there has been an agreement with Turkey, a preliminary agreement which also includes a whole range of control mechanisms, mechanisms which determine not only the payment of these funds, which are intended to address specific needs - not the means for any use - but also the conditioning, warming of the political process. In this sense, I consider this agreement to be sensible, balanced and safe, also from a Polish point of view. Today a lot of people want to assess this agreement after a few weeks and say that it just doesn't work. I hope this is not true and I would also advise those who have such an opinion on the agreement with Turkey today to wait for just a moment. I think it takes time. In fact, the right point, the moment when we measure whether this agreement has given or not, is really going to be spring when immigration movements will not be stopped by atmospheric conditions. As far as questions are concerned about the very specific issues that have already been raised here, the north-south corridor. This is obviously the corridor north-south linking the Baltic, the North Sea, the Adriatic. This is a large project, where there are elements that are probably on the European Union's priority investment list. This is a project which, from a Polish point of view, we are discussing this on the day of the President of Croatia's visit to Poland, is a promising project, because it can mean, if it were carried out in transport terms, but in particular in terms of connection of energy systems, the possibility of creating a corridor north-south also for energy raw materials. This is an essential element. The reference point for this project is, of course, Polish LNG. Detailed elements concerning waterways are not known to me, but we will provide such information by written means, as well as information about digitization, digital libraries. In the Operational Programme, of course, such elements are digital Poland, whereas details must be checked by the specific resort responsible for this. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not directly involved in this undertaking. Migration at European level. I feel like I've answered what's going on here. As far as experience is concerned, there's obviously a natural reaction, right. If we have a problem, we feel that we have clearly less experience in this area than in other countries. Therefore, what is usually suggested in such situations is the exchange of experience. But let us be honest, without excluding the exchange of experience with this or another country, there are no good examples in Europe, there is no good experience in managing this problem. Countries that have been involved in this process for a very long time have had time not only to learn from their own mistakes, but have had a lot of time to review the basis of their policies and failed in this matter. The sense of failure of immigration policy, which was initially treated as a technocratic trick related to the labour market, is visible to the naked eye. Something went wrong in this case and it seems to me that Poland is in a very comfortable position to learn from these mistakes. These are the reasons why the Polish position, very skeptical towards such a built immigration policy, is increasingly understood in Europe. On the fundamental issue of European policy, we said that we should lean on Germany rather than build a second speed in Visegrad. Let me say this: Poland is too big and too mature a country to reduce its European policy to one or the other country, whether it is Germany or Hungary. We see the whole map of the European Union and it is a bit more spacious. There's no reason again to define your position and impose some limits on yourself in this area. The Union is richer. Poland obviously understands the importance of Germany, especially in our region, for the future of the European Union. We also understand the importance and lack of representation of the region of Central Europe, broadly understood, from Tallinn to Sofia, in the decision-making and political process of the European Union, but please do not forcefully suggest that we want to reduce Polish politics here or there. Poland will remain open to all Member States because we have very different political synergies on very different issues. I don't think there's really any reason to impose such limits. Two words about TTIP. It has nothing to do with the Presidency, this case lasts longer, it will last for a very long time. TTIP is an agreement to which the European Union and the United States will be parties. This does not change the fact that due to the density of this agreement - it goes far beyond the purely commercial agreement, it will also create regulatory standards, which will also apply in Poland - we will have to deal with, you will have to do with the national ratification of this agreement. In this sense, I think you can have some sense of security of this process and not expect any excessive surprises at the moment when it will be concluded, because Poland must necessarily be included in the whole process. Otherwise, we'd risk the ratification failure of this deal, and that, I get the feeling, nobody wants to. As a rule, Poland is interested in important, intense links between Europe and the United States, because the unity of the Western world this is an important thing for Poland. It's a condition of prosperity, it's also a condition of security. That this unity of the world of the West Today it wobbles, sometimes for serious reasons and sometimes for less serious reasons, it is rather a subject of concern rather than satisfaction. However, this does not change the fact that such a precise, so detailed agreement must take into account not only Polish but also regional interests, which are connected with, for example, the price differential of energy raw materials and thus the price of energy. This is one of the key elements that Europe, the whole of Europe, as a result of our own unthinkable policy, distinguishes from the United States, which translates into the competitiveness of Polish industry as well, especially chemical industry, this voice and opinion of these sectors are perfectly heard in the Polish government and will translate into a Polish position in this matter. The second point is, of course, agricultural standards. Poland is not, fortunately, the only agricultural country in the European Union, a country which attaches significant importance to the shape of agricultural policy, and this issue is clearly present in the negotiation process. One word about a strategic fund, so-called. The Juncker Fund. In Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego there is a platform dedicated to small and medium-sized enterprises who are willing to use this new instrument, a new way of managing EU money. In general, this is a difficulty for the Polish government, because changing the method of financing or changing the way of spending EU money towards a fund-based way of spending this money will be difficult, but we are prepared to take part in it. We are ready to spend 1 billion in the next two years. We have the first contracts - Milkvita is an example - which are concluded, and high interest in the energy sector, transport and local government to participate in this programme, but this is of course the very beginning of the road. Questions concerning the debate on the state of the rule of law and democracy in Poland go far beyond the government's information about the Luxembourg Presidency due to the timelessness of this issue with the Luxembourg Presidency. Perhaps we will still want to talk about this when we sum up the Dutch Presidency, although I hope it will be lost somewhere in memory only of those most meticulous observers of the European scene. It's a Christian thing, it's an important thing. Christians in the Middle East, in North Africa, are most often victims of at least double discrimination. Not only are they victims of general political instability and very difficult, often wartime conditions in this region, which affects all the inhabitants of these lands, but very often are victims of secondary discrimination from their brothers in poverty. This is a very difficult situation, unfortunately it is repeated also in Europe, in refugee camps there are acts of discrimination against Christians who are, from their loved ones, from those who share the same fate. This should be of interest to the European Union. There was a time when this matter was raised, she should go back to the EU agenda, because it is simply an important aspect of human rights policy. Surely this issue, generally the issue of religious minorities in this region, is evident in the work of the Office for Foreigners. The weapons directive, that's the last point, because I think I've already commented on all the things. She at first... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You don't want me to talk about it? [[No, my question is still.]] What was your question? [[For disclosure of transcripts of negotiations Union - Poland.]] If any documents relating to the negotiation of this matter are deposited with the Council of the European Union, we are not the holders of such documents. A large part of these documents, I believe, is public, but I think that a large part of these negotiations were oral negotiations, because this is the political process in the European Union, that people often speak to each other simply, and only what is the result of these negotiations has a bearing on paper, so I would not have any excessive expectations. As far as the Arms Directive is concerned, it has raised some concern in Finland, in the Czech Republic, also in Poland. The Government shall take into account those comments which are made by the various stakeholders. I can say one thing today: this directive will not be adopted as proposed. The new compromise on this issue is much closer to the positions which were expressed on Polish ground. I think that is all in general, from general to detail, I hope I have satisfied your curiosity in this area. I hope that when we sum up the Dutch Presidency, we will have less ambivalence as to how to treat this document, we will have a clearer relationship and avoid the insincere compliments that I have been addressed today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u306	Thank you very much. I would ask you to speak with the representative of the committee, Isabella Kloc. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u307	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! However, you will allow me also to join these compliments towards you, because I really must say as the head of the Commission for European Affairs that our cooperation is working very well, that indeed the members of the European Commission are getting all the information that is relevant to European policy. Thank you so much for that. I would also like to thank all the members of the European Union's Committee on Affairs who have listened to this debate today, especially those who have asked questions on every political side. I think that today's debate is such a reason for tomorrow's debate, so it has happened for a time - tomorrow we will talk about foreign policy, today we are talking about Europe. Thank you all very much for all the votes and the Minister for his balanced presentation of European policy. But at the same time today we can say that the voice of Poland is actually very much listened and heard in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u308	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We therefore proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on the amendment of the law on the education system (print No 48). I ask the Deputy Representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Marcin Celiński to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome. Mr. Marcin Celinski, please speak. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: He's on his way.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The project is not long, so my justification will not take much time. I represent citizens who notice dissonance in Polish law, dissonance regarding state funding of the activities of churches and religious unions. I represent the citizens who have decided to give up this dissonance of consideration to the High House. When religion was introduced into schools 25 years ago, it was a gesture aimed at the previous system fighting against religion. This act was an attempt to make amends to the undeniable damage suffered by the communities of believers, especially the faithful of the Catholic Church, during the period of the Polish People's Republic. However, the model agreed at that time did not bear any particular burden on the taxpayer. Primate Józef Glemp himself declared: The Church does not want any zloty from the state budget for teaching religion in public schools. We don't go to school for money, we go there on a mission. This was the case in the early years of catechesis. The church was present in schools with its mission of forming believers, did not claim greater rights than would result from the guaranteed freedom of religion in Poland. It's different today. Today, catechesis stands for 30,000. employed workers from the so-called. the mission, that is in practice excluded from probation supervision, implementing programs which are not approved or controlled by the Polish State financing the entire project. Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 2nd concordat signed with the Holy See is simply: The program of teaching the Catholic religion and textbooks is developed by the church authority and communicated to the competent state authority. According to the signed international agreement, the Polish state has no influence on the program of the subject taught at the Polish school. The Republic of Poland cannot assume responsibility for the shape of religious lessons in the school according to the concordat. According to the regulations of the concordat, the Polish state has committed itself to organizing religious lessons in schools, but there is no record of a financial obligation. If he were, we would feel that he would be unconstitutional, contrary to the principle of worldview impartiality of the state enshrined in the article. The 25 constitution, which states: Public authorities in the Republic of Poland retain impartiality in matters of religious, worldview and philosophical beliefs, ensuring freedom to express them in public life. Neither the concordat nor the constitution imposes a obligation on the Polish state to finance the costs of catechesis. Raising the record of free education by the opponents of our project is a misunderstanding - it cannot be regarded as public education for activities not covered by the State's curriculum, excluded from the methodological and teaching supervision of the relevant national authorities, carried out by persons who are not subject to the general qualification rules of the public school teacher. No subject in public school can be run by a person without a higher education - the catechesis can run alumni of seminaries, and catechesis are not subject to the obligation of education and improvement related to professional promotion. If, as the supporters of the state paying catechists claim, they are teachers like everyone else, then why do we apply completely different rules to them than all other teachers? We know that there are two possible models of conducting such activities: confessional, such as in Poland, closely associated with the mission of forming believers, also present in countries such as Bulgaria - and then it seems natural that this confessional model should be financed by a religious union - and non-confessional, which does not serve a particular religion, teaching a specific Church, which has long evolved into classes devoted to value systems in Western Europe, and then is financed by the state, but is implementing a program set by the state. This model is in Finland, Denmark, Estonia. There are also intermediate models based on the agreement of the state with religious unions, e.g. in Germany or in the UK, where the programme, the appointment of teachers, the supervision of the implementation of the religious programme are common: states and interested religious unions in specific places. In Germany, as we know, there is still land diversity associated with this. We regard the funding of the confessional form of catechesis in a country that does not have a State Church as being governed by the Education Act, and this country is the Republic of Poland declaring impartiality in matters of worldview and the separation of the Church from the State as an inconsistency of the system. Let me draw your attention to a consequence of today's model of funding, namely the financing of confessional catechesis, where we do not have supervision of the curriculum and the way of teaching. A few days ago, the press described controversy about the organisation and financing of Islam teaching in Częstochowa. In view of what is currently happening in Europe, is this model of funding and not asking what is happening in the course of teaching ultimately beneficial? I would like to remind you that the principles contained in the Education System Act apply to all registered denominations in the Republic of Poland. Thanks to our action and the identification of the problem for the first time in years, the research studios of public opinion asked Poles in their polls about funding catechesis. According to them, depending on the survey, between 49% and 66% of Poles are of the opinion that the catechesis should be financed by ecclesiastical funds, it should not be financed by the state budget. Given the dominant percentage of Poles declaring to be believers, our postulate has found support in the group of believers. The majority of those who support our request, from simple arithmetic, are believers. This does not surprise us, because it is in line with the social teaching of the Church, which the absolute primacy of upbringing grants to parents and the Church. The declaration of Christian upbringing of the Second Vatican Council states: "Parents, because they gave life to children, are to the highest extent obliged to raise their offspring and must therefore be regarded as their first and principal educators. This educational task is so important that its possible absence could be replaced with difficulty. It is also about the role of the Church: "In a special way, the duty of education belongs to the Church not only because it should be regarded as a human society capable of carrying out an educational function, but, above all, because it has the task of showing all people the way of salvation, and to the believers giving the life of Christ and helping them with constant care, so that they may attain the fullness of this life. [[Very nice.]] In this document, you also have: (...) certain obligations and rights of the State, because it is up to you to organise what is required by the common temporal good. Its task is to support the various ways in which young people are raised, namely to protect their parents' responsibilities and rights and to help them, to take over, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, education in the absence of initiative by parents and other communities. In Poland, are we dealing with the lack of parental initiative in the upbringing or weakness of the communities of the Churches? I think such a statement would be offensive to both churches and families. This phenomenon certainly does not occur, and the family and the Church are far from the crisis, which would cause them to be replaced by the state. We are therefore not proposing to introduce a non-confessional model in which the state would create a process of religious education. I quote the above to lie to the opinion that our project is, however, involved in ideological or religious conflicts. These are not the subjects of our interest. The only axiology that accompanies us is state axiology, which by its very nature unites all patriots regardless of their religion. We do not ask for the removal of religion from schools, we do not question the right of believers to worship, and the churches to form young believers, we only question the role of the state and public money in this process. The second is to clarify who decides to participate in catechesis in upper secondary schools. So we're talking about the so-called. older teens, sixteen- and seventeen-year-olds. Constitution of the Republic of Poland in Art. 48 states: "Parents have the right to raise their children according to their own beliefs. This upbringing should take into account the child's maturity and the freedom of conscience and religion and his conviction. This education is to take into account the degree of maturity, as well as the freedom of his conscience and religion. In our sense, 16-year-olds are so mature and fashioned that they can make their own axiological choices. In addition, it should be noted that no activities other than those that threaten life and health in upper secondary education require parental consent, the pupil joins them in accordance with his own decision. The boundaries of age are contractual, established by law. In this case, we propose to recognise the subjectivity of upper secondary school pupils and leave them the decision. We took note of opinions about our project, which were received by the Sejm. We fully respect the view of the committee on teaching Orthodox religion of the Polish Autokephalic Orthodox Church. We do not deny the importance of catechesis and other forms of evangelization carried out by this Church. We believe that the Orthodox Church attaches great importance to the education of catechists, how they conduct their activities and care about the substantive level of textbooks. Our project in no way interferes in the sphere of activity described in the opinion. We only deal with the financial and legal aspect, not the axiological aspect of catechesis. Ambivalent feelings aroused the opinion of the Attorney General in us. We don't quite understand why the D.A.'s talking about the education system. It's more like totalitarian systems. It's where the D.A.'s office usually has its own re-education centers. Fortunately, there are no such ones in Poland. On the other hand, the Attorney General tries in his opinion to present a rather specific interpretation of the Constitution, for which, according to our knowledge, he has no constitutional or statutory competence. I know that this opinion was created before the crisis related to the Constitutional Tribunal, but, in the light of this crisis, the prosecutor who attributed himself the right to state the unconstitutionality of the legislative idea, you will admit, does not look good. However, since this is the opinion of the prosecutor behind the entire Penal Code, I will quote one sentence from this opinion, with which we agree 100%. I quote: The project's material does not concern the statutory tasks of the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I will respond to the government's opinion, which I know only partially from the media, after hearing it. [[It's available.]] I didn't have the opportunity, unfortunately, but I understand it's going to be presented. [[It's available.]] Ladies and gentlemen, our project is the first civil project to be launched by the Sejm during this term of office. In previous terms, these projects have been different. In the electoral campaign, the rulers today rightly stigmatized their predecessors for rejecting citizens' initiatives at first reading without subjecting them to a substantive debate in committees. I believe this practice is in the past. Surely today our project may not have the support of the majority of Members in this Chamber, that is the essence of civic projects. If they were part of a governing programme, it would not be necessary to organise a committee, collect signatures and exercise the right of citizens' initiative. I want to thank all those who supported the signed project - spontaneously organizing themselves in the course of the volunteers, some of them are with us here today, at the gallery, and I want to thank the initiator, unfortunately absent, Leszek Jażjewski, whom I am replacing here, for not giving in to the dominant imposibilism. [[Ha, ha, ha.]] We were convinced it wasn't gonna work. We have arrived with the project here and we are with it in Parliament. I believe that the promises from the election campaign are of value and our project will not be rejected at first reading, that it will be passed on to the committees. That's not just what I'm asking for in the name of 155,000. supporting our project, but also on behalf of every citizens' initiative - existing, emerging and perhaps even uncreated. Show the citizens that you take their initiatives seriously. Citizens deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u310	Thank you very much for presenting the justification for the bill. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. About taking... The minister's gonna have to wait a minute. Please take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice of Marzena Machalek. Wait a minute, wait a minute, I don't know. Does the Minister now wish to present her position? [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Yes.]] Member, please take your place... [[I'll wait.]] ...and we'll ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very sorry for the change in customs and standard that the government's position is presented only after listening to the positions of clubs and questions, but I think that the answers to the questions and answers to the speeches of clubs are something other than the position of the government, and therefore that you also have clarity and the opportunity to refer to both, and then I will also allow myself to do so for you. I am very sorry, it is rare in my case, but I will read this position, just out of respect that it is a government position, not a presentation of a position only and only a single person. The citizens' draft law amending the Law on the Education System concerns a change in the content of the article. 12 Law of 7 September 1991 on the Education System. According to the current wording of the paragraph. 1 This article organizes religious education in public kindergartens, primary schools and secondary schools at the request of parents, public upper secondary schools at the request of parents or pupils, and, once they are old enough to learn religion, the students decide on their own. The conditions and manner in which religion and ethics are organised in public kindergartens and schools shall be determined on the basis of the authorisation provided for in Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Law of 7 September 1991 on the Education System, Regulation of the Minister for National Education of 14 April 1992 on the conditions and organisation of religious education in public kindergartens and schools. The proposed change in the content of the paragraph in the citizens' project. Article 1 The 12th Law on the Education System consists of granting the right to decide to participate in religious education in upper secondary schools only to pupils, disregarding the rights of parents, and banning public funding for the organisation of religious education in public schools within the meaning of public finance regulations. Change in the lips, on the other hand. 2 of that Article consists in supplementing the provisions of that provision with the authorisation to issue a regulation laying down the conditions and the manner in which schools perform the tasks related to organising religious education in order to determine how to settle and cover the costs involved. The explanatory memorandum of the project refers to the article. 12 Concordat between the Holy See and Poland, signed in Warsaw on 28 July 1993. According to the authors of the project, Poland committed itself to organizing religious lessons in schools, but should not finance them in the name of the principle of worldview impartiality of countries resulting from the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997. The authors of the project did not take into account the fact that the provisions of the Art. The 12th Law of 7 September 1991 on the system of education is the basis for organizing, at the request of parents, the teachings of religions of many Christian denominations and non-Christian religions which are not subject to the provisions of the concordat, so the proposed ban on financing religious activities organised in schools and inter-school groups would apply to all churches and other religious associations with a regulated legal situation, currently teaching - in the number of about 30 - or planning to organise such activities in the future. Referring to the draft ban on public funding of religious activities, it should be noted that the introduction of the principle of funding these activities by the Churches or other religious associations, which is practically by parents who are members of these religious communities, would violate two constitutional principles: the principle of freedom of religion and the principle of free learning. In the light of Art. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland The teaching of religion is an immanent component of the fundamental freedom of religion guaranteed by the Act. This principle is complemented by the regulation contained in Article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Constitution, stating that the religion of the Church or other religious union having a regulated legal situation may be the subject of teaching at school, and that freedom of conscience and religion of others must not be affected. The guarantee of freedom of religion is unconditional in the sense that the State cannot introduce non-constitutional conditions for the use of its forms set out in Article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions that would restrict this freedom, e.g. introduce remunerations for participating in the teaching of religion organised in a public school. In connection with the regulation contained in Article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland should be indicated in its Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2, which lays down the principle of free teaching in public schools, allowing only one exception from it, namely the provision in the Act of the ordinary possibility of collecting fees for the provision of certain educational services by public higher education institutions. It should also be noted that teachers in public kindergartens and schools are employed under the Act of 26 January 1982. A person conducting religious lessons, whether a clergyman or a secular person, is a teacher of this kindergarten or school. Therefore, a religious teacher remains in the relationship of working with an individual - a kindergarten or a school - who employs him. According to the definition of employment relationship, the employee undertakes to do a specific job for the employer and under his/her direction and at the place and time appointed by the employer, and the employer undertakes to employ the employee for remuneration. It is not possible for an employee to provide work without an equivalent remuneration paid by the employer. In most European countries, the teaching of religion organized at school, in a formula and in accordance with the principles of the educational system of a given country is financed by public funds: from the state budget or from the local government, depending on the specifics of the individual countries. In addition, in 28 countries 24 they finance religious lessons, in a way that the Polish Church could dream of. Proposal by the authors of the bill... I am at the disposal of strongly commenting volunteers for whom I have expressed my respect, I hope, with reciprocity, as regards detailed information on how this issue is resolved in individual European countries. The proposal of the authors of the bill concerning the organisation of religious and ethics lessons in upper secondary schools only at the request of pupils, justified by the claim that they are mature enough, raises concerns due to a significant violation of the rights of parents. It should therefore be noted that the provision of the Article. 48 (1) (a) 1, linked to Article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland guarantees parents the right to raise children according to their own beliefs. The rights of parents do not deprive their children of the right to exercise freedom of conscience and religion and to have their own beliefs, to the extent that they are mature. Parents should take into account the child's maturity and freedom of conscience and belief in their educational role, which does not mean that they are in breach of their parental rights. Regulation contained in Article. The 12th Act of 7 September 1991 on the system of education serves to create proper relations within the family, creating a field for dialogue and broadening the possibilities for the child to participate in decision-making as his maturity deepens. Constitutional guarantees to respect the rights of both parents and pupils are in favour of a negative assessment of the proposed change as an unauthorised introduction of a statutory restriction on the rights of parents of a minor child in matters relating to the worldview. In summary, the government has expressed a negative view of the proposals for amendments to the citizens' draft law amending the law on the education system. I will be pleased and attentive to follow the discussion, hoping for a serious and substantive speech, serving you and answering your questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u312	So we proceed with the discussion. Let me remind you that the time to speak on behalf of the club is five minutes. And once again, I ask Mrs Marzena Machalek to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Applicant's Representatives! The aim of this project today is to abolish public funding by the state of teaching religion in schools. It is worth noting that the organisers of the shares collecting signatures under a project demanding the cessation of the financing of religion from the state budget themselves are willing to benefit from state subsidies. In 2013, the magazine Liberté! is associated with a representative of the so-called "Liberté" magazine. the secular school, the amount of 70 thousand was invested, and in 2015 the amount of 53 thousand. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Applicant's Representatives! I will remind you that today it was said that the guarantees of free teaching of religion stem from both the constitution and the international agreement, which is the concordat between the Holy See and the Polish Republic. They are also enshrined in the Education System Act. Detailed regulations are contained in regulations issued by the Minister for National Education. This could be done by recognising that the project presented is incompatible with the Polish legal order. This is confirmed by the opinion of the Attorney General, which states that teaching religion is an immanent component of the fundamental freedom of religion guaranteed by the Act, and it should be assumed that the abolition of State funding of religious teachings in schools would constitute a violation of the Constitution. However, it is worth checking how things are with the teaching of religion in the countries of the European Union. Thus, in 24 countries from 28 countries of the European Union, religion is taught in public schools. In 9 countries, participation in religious lessons is compulsory, and in 15 countries it is voluntary. Even in laity France in two departments, Alsace and Lorraine, religious teaching is present in public schools. In all countries of the European Union, where religious teaching is present in the national education system, both voluntary and compulsory, it is financed by public funds. It is therefore a normal, accepted principle of democratic rule of law, which guarantees parents to educate their children in accordance with their values. But there is, in our opinion, the most important aspect of today's discussion on the role of teaching religion in schools, because there is no doubt that the impact on the financing of teaching religion is really a hit on religion. It is about education, in which upbringing to values should be the foundation of building a national community, a community that exists in our homeland on the basis of national, cultural and religious cohesion. And it's not a resounding, pathetic content. Today, when we see what is happening in Europe, for example in France or recently in Germany, these content is particularly up-to-date and vital. The mixing of cultures and religions ended tragically there. Being a national, cultural and religious community is a shield, a shield of security, but it also imposes obligations on every human being in the community to respect the rights and principles of this community. This project, I say with regret, strikes what is the foundation of our security resulting from the sense of our national community. Let us guard those values that keep us safe. Let me stress once again: the shield of security in every dimension is a community based on national, cultural and religious identity. In recent years, directly or insidiously, under the cloak of noble slogans, our community is trying to dismantle, cut down roots, promote or introduce, richly finance ideologies striking at tradition, family and religion. This can't end well. There are sad examples for this. We're not authorized to do that. I appeal to those who will push this harmful project hitting our national community, which we owe to cultivating our culture based on religious uniformity: think about where this leads. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last sentences. Let me put it this way: hitting religion is irrational, cost - too big. Last year, he's given a lot of evidence. Tell him to get to your...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u314	Member, finish up. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u315	I'm almost done. ...consciousness of the fact that you are taking responsibility for the dangerous shifting of all borders when you go into the abyss of political overregulation. Where this happened, the effects can be tragic. God forbid it gets to Poland. We will vote against this project. I'm handing over an appropriate request to your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u316	It's okay here, just call it in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u317	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u318	You're welcome. About taking... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'd like to ask you all to remain calm in the audience. [[Scandal, really.]] We therefore move on to the next Member, namely Mrs Urszula Augustyn, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u319	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is the wisdom of the nation to begin with - the word is said, the woman in the fence. And these words were said very much in the course of the election campaign. I don't think we're gonna find anyone in this room who doesn't remember how the Prime Minister in the campaign was saying, "We're gonna listen to Poles... [[Voice from the room: We're listening.]] ...and we'll talk to the Poles. [[Voice from the room: We're talking.]] Well, voilà, ladies and gentlemen, we have an excellent opportunity. This is the first civic project in this term, a project that citizens have brought in to listen to them, and to talk to them. [[Smart design.]] So I think this is a great opportunity to help the Law and Justice to implement one of the electoral promises, to listen and talk to Poles. This is not the end of my speech, but so that I would not miss it, I wanted, your marshal, to declare that I would request that this project be sent to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth just to talk about it, and just so that we could listen to what Poles have to say. In order to ensure that there is no doubt, I would like to stress one more fact very strongly. I absolutely agree with this part of Mrs Machalek's statement, in which she said that raising to value is very important and that education and education must be based on values. I totally agree with that. There's no doubt about it. What is more, Christianity is such a rock of value. These are permanent, human, timeless, universal values. It's okay. [[What's there to discuss?]] We agree very much, but the debate on financing religious teaching, the debate on how this teaching is going, what methods are used, whether good or bad, I think it is needed. And it is important that in such a debate we listen to Poles who want to have an opinion on this subject. You declared it during the election campaign. Today's legal situation is that parents decide. We'd like to keep it that way. It is parents, possibly adults, who decide whether or not they are taking part in religious classes in school, whether or not they are taking ethical lessons or not. It's the parents' decision. We'd really like to keep it that way. It is the parent, possibly an adult student, who decides how his religious education is going, but all that is involved in this religious education is already being debated, discussed and discussed. If we're talking about funding alone... Today, the project applicant referred to studies which show that funding should not be from the state budget. So let's talk about what it's supposed to be like. Because if it's not from the budget, then what? From the church budget? [[That's what it says in the project.]] In addition to the large Church we have many churches and religious communities. Are they able to finance such teachings? So it doesn't turn out we're gonna go back to our parents' pockets. The Civic Platform has repeatedly shown that it is trying to help parents finance education, to relieve their wallets. We've introduced a free textbook project. By 2017, this project should be operational in all primary and secondary schools. We help parents, we relieve them from funding education. The same with kindergarten for gold and many other projects we've shown so far. But just because we're trying to relieve our parents from funding doesn't mean that today we'd say, okay, so let's get them paid. No. But this, ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, is some space, some level of debate, to talk about what really should be included in this education. To sum up, the subject is very broad and very important. So it is worth taking advantage of this opportunity, please, colleagues from the Law and Justice, listen to Poles and talk to Poles no matter what conclusions we draw here. It is therefore worth asking for a public hearing before the first reading is completed. This is an excellent arena for debate for Poles who could express their opinion. Then let's look for compromise solutions, then let's look for the best solution. If it is such a solution that we fund the teaching of religion further from the budget, let it be such a solution, but for a kind God, give yourselves a chance to accomplish what you have long promised. Listen to the Poles. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request that the citizens' project be addressed to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, discuss it there, ask about expertise, check, estimate costs [[♪ The bell ♪]] and then talk about it really seriously. Once again, at the end of my speech, I would like to stress this very strongly. We believe that upbringing to value is very important, but the quality of this upbringing is already under discussion. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's a crazy statement.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u320	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, Mr Tomasz Jaskoła. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u321	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen at the Gallery! For starters, congratulations. 150,000. It's a very big achievement. I'm just saying, this is the third civic project we've brought in, my dear colleagues. One more unprocededed, one already processed, so this is the third civic project. Today, I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the citizens' proposal for amendments to the Law on the system of education concerning the teaching of religion in public schools and the method of financing. I must tell you that once again, believers and non-believers socialists, even if they come from citizens, know better than parents. We propose a concerted exit, that is, it looks like this. Before I go to him, I'm going to show you some pretty problematic thesis that came up in the explanatory note. I will admit that they are quite inconsistent, and it would have to be justified, to be honest, to improve a little. Because in the justification we have something like this: the constitutional principle of separation between the Church and the State and the reference to this principle. Ladies and gentlemen! In Poland there is no principle of separation of the Church from the state, only the principle of autonomy. This shall be governed by Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the Let me quote it: The relations between the state and the churches and other religious unions are shaped on the principles of respect for their autonomy and mutual independence of everyone in their scope, as well as cooperation for the good of man and the common good. There's another problematic record. I see that in this project only one Church is particularly preferred, this interest is directed towards one Church, undoubtedly the Roman Catholic Church, while one must remember that we are acting on the basis of law and in accordance with Article. 53 Religious freedom is granted to every religious union and to every Church that has legal regulations. There's a reference to the concordat. I remind you that the Holy See is the only clergyman who has the right to conclude international agreements, hence it is regulated in the Accord, it is not the legal road of the regulated relationship of the state - the Church. Ladies and gentlemen! So what are the suggestions of our move, Kukiz?15? Ones that are concerted because we respect this will, but at the same time we think that there are many new problems that need to be discussed in the committee, perhaps financing. I do not agree with many aspects of freeness. In art, of course. 70 Constitutions are free, but we would like to propose two options. Of course, one thing is impossible, unfortunately, to do, because socialists believe and non-believers rule, and the other is possible, even with a little conciliation. The first one is a voucher, an education voucher. Let's give our parents power over which relationships and whether or not they're going to finance. This is a very good solution. We hope it will come true someday. We know that it will be difficult, and I will therefore move on to a second proposal, which is possible to proceed further. The second proposal is a relief in PIT, in the tax on individuals. Let your parents decide which religious union and whether they will spend money on it at all. Today, of course, we have a situation of funding religious lessons or ethics by the state and local governments. Pay attention to that. I am actually a Member of Częstochowa and this issue of applying to the Częstochowa self-government is called. The Muslim League about teaching Islamic religion directly concerns me in some way. I explain to people that, of course, he has the right to do so, but please pay attention to what, or rather what people are behind the Muslim League, is firstly, secondly, but one aspect must be pointed out that the French also financed the construction of mosques, where they were taught to hate fundamental European values, such as freedom, tolerance and law. That is why, in summary, Kukiz15, respectful of the will of citizens, but also respectful of the state and order that exists, because he is not such a threat at all, because I admit that I am surprised to read, to be honest, the words, as a teacher, your rapporteur: at the Polish school, the catechist is an informal vice principal of the school or the headmaster... [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's not true. I'm a teacher. I don't know when you last went to school. I would like to stress one thing that we are asking you very much to refer this project to the relevant committees. It doesn't bother us, and we're also asking for a public hearing, respecting citizens' wishes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u322	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern speech by Mrs Monica Rosa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u323	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A friendly separation of the Church from the state, with respect, with support, with autonomy. The voice of the Church in public life is very important, but it should be the proper voice for the Church - non-antagonizing, impartial and upbuilding. The state should respect the autonomy of the churches, should listen to the voices of citizens, and most of the Polish society is against funding catechesis from the state budget. Why? Recall, religion was introduced into schools in 1990. The right to organize catechetical classes in school institutions is guaranteed in the Constitution and by virtue of the concordat between the Holy See and the Polish Republic. This is a good and practical solution. It is good that the school provides its rooms for religious lessons, it is convenient for children, for parents. On the other hand, it is important that these classes are financed by the Church. First of all, 1350 million PLN. $1,000. PLN per month for a capable student. Let's multiply it by 12 so he can get it all year round. Let's multiply it by 100,000, 100,000. children receiving such a scholarship each year. 100,000. future explorers, creators, educators and professionals. Second, respect. Religion classes are often treated by pupils as secondary ones. A good priest is one who doesn't require too much, doesn't bother. Treatment of catechesis on principles such as any other lesson diminishes its status. Catechesis classes should have a spiritual dimension. Their goal is, after all, to bring salvation, like all the teachings of the Church. But that's not the purpose of the state, let's keep a friendly chapter here. Third, science. Parents often wonder about the fact that religion is included in the timetable of the lesson in the dimension, e.g. Two hours a week. Isn't it better to spend this time, this money, learning language, biology, chemistry or math, developing students' passions and interests? Let's treat catechesis specially, but let the students gain knowledge. High Izbo! There is no need for power to prove its loyalty to the Church, and the Church has supported power in return. Today we can afford a friendly chapter of the Church and the State. We can afford that the Church does not have to rely on the state in its mission. This project is a good way to talk, so we ask you to refer the project to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u324	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer will also perform on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u325	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We could finance $25,000. biological, chemical, natural, physical studios in schools every year. That means 100,000. labs in four years. We could finance over 500,000. children every year lunches at school throughout the school year. I think you talk a lot about this, about care, about undereating children in Polish families. This was also the case in the European Parliament. I believe this is an important matter for you. We could finance two extra hours of English for all children to even up the chances of those children whose parents can afford these two extra hours and those who can't afford them. But we can also look our parents in the eye - and I know that it is very important for you to talk to Poles - and say: there will be no lunches at school, there will be no studio and there will be no two additional English lessons. We'll spend it on religious lessons, just as we've done so far. Because every year we spend PLN 1350 million on religious lessons. For the sake of clarity: optional religious lessons in Polish schools taking place after lessons is a good idea and it is worth keeping this solution. It is a child-friendly solution for parents and children. They don't have to go to church, they don't have to go to parish halls, they don't have to run them. Parents are very busy these days, so it's a simple solution for them. But we have a choice: either biological, chemical, extra language lessons, or the financing of children's lunches, or, instead, the funding from the budget of two religious classes a week in each class. In a moment you will decide what Polish children need more and how you understand modern education. [[Exactly.]] I believe that this choice is obvious for both you and us. Therefore, modern is against funding religious lessons from the state budget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u326	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, please address Mr Krystian Jarubas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u327	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position on the citizens' draft law amending the Act on the Education System, print No 48. Ladies and gentlemen, the project assumes that public kindergartens, primary schools and junior high schools will organise religious education at the request of their parents and public upper secondary schools at the request of the students themselves. The most important change in the draft legislative initiative prepared by the Committee is the financing of religious lessons. The Act contains a provision that assumes that it will not be possible to finance them in part or entirely from public funds within the meaning of public finance legislation. According to the project, the Minister responsible for education and upbringing in agreement with the authorities of the Catholic Church and the Polish Autokephalic Orthodox Church and other Churches and religious associations will define by regulation the conditions and manner in which schools perform tasks, as well as the way in which they settle and cover the costs associated with the organisation of religious education. Today, according to the Act on the Education System, the teaching of religion in public kindergartens, elementary schools and junior high schools takes place at the request of parents, at least in theory, and in upper secondary schools - at the request of parents or students themselves. According to the decree of the Minister of National Education, parents can choose whether the child will attend ethics, religion, or not to attend one or another. These provisions apply to all churches and religious associations. Ladies and gentlemen, approximately PLN 1365 million per year is spent on salaries for religious teachers from the state budget. With regard to who would cover these costs, the project foresees that the Minister for Education should deal with this in a separate regulation. But it is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that these should be religious unions or, if they are not interested, parents directly. Ladies and gentlemen, parents are waiting for the 500 zlotys promised to be paid from January. We can't charge them another fee. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party does not accept such solutions, and therefore does not support the citizens' draft law on amending the law on the system of education. Thank you very much. [[Don't back it up, don't throw it away.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u328	This part of the discussion will be followed by Mr Jan Klawiter, not associated. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u329	The right hand of the Republic of Poland. Religion at school is the result of the natural right of parents to decide to raise their children. The school must have a place to carry out the process of upbringing a young man. The basis of the upbringing process is to encourage students to follow a system of values in their lives. Young people are looking for values on which they can build their development, values in which they can take root. God is the source of these values for Christians. The current system allows for this type of operation. Since we must not give up our education to value, we should ensure that young people who do not participate in religious lessons participate in ethics lessons. It is nonsense that parents of ethics learners pay for ethics lessons, and parents of religion learners pay for religious lessons. You can e.g. Imagine that parents who were dissatisfied with the subject of family life, for example, would not send their children to such activities and would then expect those who send their children to these classes to pay for these activities. It would also lead to a solid mess. Therefore, because we should raise children in certain values, we cannot give up on this. Therefore, it is appropriate that these lessons take place as they take place, only that children who do not attend religious classes also give a better opportunity to use ethics lessons, because I know that there are problems with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u330	Thank you very much. There are 23 people on the list of Members who have joined the question. Anybody else want to be on the list? I can't see. I therefore close the list of questions saved for the task. I would like to ask Anna Cicholska from the Law and Justice Club to ask her first question. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u331	Dear Marshal! Minister! Applicant State! High Izbo! Teaching religion at school is teaching responsibility for another person. Last year was the 25th anniversary of the return of religion to schools. According to data, between 85 and 90% of students attend religious classes in schools. Teaching religion is not only teaching prayer or encouraging religious practices, but, above all, raising the whole person. It is an upbringing towards values that should, it is about time, fully return to the Polish school. A few years ago, in the column room, the words of the school with values sounded, the return of values to the school, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And religious lessons like no other teach such values.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u332	Madame, please proceed to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u333	Catechists are well prepared to work at school. According to the Constitution, science in public schools is free of charge.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u334	Madame, please proceed to the question, or I will turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u335	People belonging to the Church also decide on taxes. Citizens are mostly members of the Catholic Church. And I have a question for the applicant: Do you know that religion is taught in public schools in 24 countries of the European Union, in nine of them participation...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u336	Madam, I warn you for the last time and I will turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u337	...is mandatory and these are highly civilized countries: Austria, Cyprus, Denmark... [[Ms Anna Cicholska speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u338	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask the next Member, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to one aspect that makes it worth discussing the issue of teaching religion at school and it is worth referring this project to further debates. Personally, I'm in favour of teaching religion at school, but it's worth it for reasons other than this. Among other things, to lean on this teaching, the way in which it is taught and its quality, and to lean on the safety aspect. This is also an open case today, also in a multi-religious, so far, Europe. Religion pushed beyond the official circulation can often be, unfortunately, what we experience in Europe, a tool for sowing hatred rather than neighborly love. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One question to Mrs Machalek: Do you really think that hitting funding is hitting religion? [[Of course I do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u340	Proceed to completion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u341	Is money a condition for you to remain believers? [[Applause]] [[I wanted to refer to you, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u342	I would like to ask Mr Bogusław Sonik's question from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome. Let me remind you that time is one minute. [[Not enough.]] Sorry, that's all there is to ask. [[Your marshal, I've been replaced, I'd like to correct.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u343	Thank you, Marshal. The initiators of this proposal to stop financing the teaching of religion in schools from the budget are like old generals who are always prepared for the previous war rather than the one they are supposed to face. Today, when Europe is experiencing a crisis of identity, and in many countries abandoned churches are displayed for auctions, Poland is proposed to enter the same path of ruining Christianity from public space. It is this approach that opens the way to emptiness, and since reality does not tolerate emptiness, this emptiness is filled with religious and ideological currents which have nothing to do with the message of love, tolerance, mutual solidarity and peace, i.e. the values underlying the building of the European community after 1945. Teaching religion is not only a simple catechetical transmission of truths of faith, but it is a sensitivity to the whole sphere of culture in which children and young people are raised, it is a demonstration of how [[♪ The bell ♪]] religion shaped the world in which they grow - history, art, literature, architecture, aesthetic sensitivity. The question to the supporters of the elimination of funding from the budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u344	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u345	Do you know that in France, the forerunner of the concept of secularism, the state finances from the budget salaries of all teachers in Catholic schools? [[Applause]] [[I wonder how the POs will vote.]] [[It's a conscience.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u346	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First, the quote: Without you, Father Director, there would be no victory. These are the words of Jarosław Kaczyński on December 5th, [[Applause]] In addition, in 2015 the Council adopted I'm just going to ask perversely the applicants about rejecting the project at first reading: Do you not think that by giving, instead of first 500 PLN per child, 20 million for the Church, only the one in Toruń... [[Voice from the Hall: What does this have to do with religious teaching?]] ...makes these kinds of projects and attitudes reported? [[Let's get to the point.]] I'm just talking about the project that these kinds of projects are being reported. [[And you were the government spokesperson? Shame.]] Do the Members of the Law and Justice really believe that such things are something that the Church is entitled to? [[That's what they think.]] The second point is: Does the rejection of a civil project at first reading not conflict with your declarations? This has been mentioned by the honourable Member, but I will also quote a very important citizen, the first citizen in this country, Mr Duda: I hope that the new government - I understand that it is about your government - will respect citizens' initiatives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The practice of not taking into account citizens' demands does not lead to anything good. And with this message I leave you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u348	Thank you very much. [[Will you come out? You're leaving?]] [[For you? Are we on you?]] [[You'd have too much...]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u349	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of this proposal will show respect for direct democracy and respect for the initiators of civil action... [[We're not on you, and you're a knight of the government.]] [[And you're not even a snitch.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u350	Gentlemen, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u351	In such words, Law and Justice proposed amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm so that the citizens' bill could not be rejected at first reading. These are the words of your Member Kazimierz Ujazdowski. I wanted to ask you, what happened? What happened to your relationship with civil initiatives? [[That's a good change.]] [[The questions are to be asked to the applicants.]] [[But you're in charge, you've got the majority.]] Is this the result not only of you coming to power, but also of your shoes and arrogance? [[Good change.]] Is it the result of you now wanting to take everything and you don't care about anyone and nothing, and above all, you don't care about the citizens of this country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that the effect of this? [[God, look who's talking, baby.]] [[You don't know what you're saying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u352	Please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u353	And a quick question to the applicants because I feel like...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u354	Member, time is up. Go ahead, or I'll turn off the mike.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u355	A short question for the applicants. I just wanted to make sure... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you very much.]] [[You're out of time.]] ...is the citizens' bill supposed to end... [[Time, time's up.]] But don't interrupt me...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u356	Member, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u357	...assumes the liquidation of religion... [[Mr Agnieszka Pomaska speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u358	You're out of time. [[You said 30 seconds longer.]] [[But they're interrupting!]] [[You're gonna calm down, you're gonna have to pray.]] I ask the next Member, Mrs Bernadet Krynicka of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, not keeping a minute will cause the microphone to turn off. I won't pay any more attention to that, please. [[But they interrupted, your marshal, they interrupted all the time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u359	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. What hinders applicants from understanding correctly and following the Decalogue, in which only three commandments apply to God, and seven of them apply to man himself? Worship thy father and thy mother. Don't kill me. Don't commit adultery. Don't steal. Don't give a false witness. Don't covet. After all, these are the most desirable values in every society, which are an undisputed foundation of family and human order. What is wrong with the Gospel, which teaches human relationships based on love for neighbor, respect for law, social order, which teaches service to another person, who often facilitates life? Instilling these values in young people is helping parents and schools and society. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u360	Thank you very much. Next questions will be asked by Mr Sylvester Tulaev, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u361	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Reading into the text of the bill, it is impossible to fail to get the impression that a group of citizens focused on the initiative "Secular school" does not have a reliable understanding and full knowledge of the impact of teaching religion on the shaping of the right attitudes of children and young people and on the future of our country. [[It's a public hearing.]] [[It's a public hearing, then.]] This project is unfavorable to the Church, this project begins to fight against the Church. When we took our vows at the first session of the Sejm, almost all Members added the words: "So help me God. [[That's right.]] I'd like to ask you today, where are the values you were presenting back then? Why today's Civic Platform, why today's Kukiz15 Members start this year in the fight against the Church, in the fight against religion? I would also point out that this project is incompatible with the Constitution - with Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do you submit projects that are not in accordance with the Constitution? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u362	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, a club called Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u363	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say something and ask the applicant: Do you know that catechists have a responsibility to improve and do so systematically? [[Only ineffectively.]] [[This is a civic project.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[How do you know if you don't go to catechesis?]] They improve their qualifications and do so very effectively. I personally, as the director of the voivodship teacher training facility, was responsible for this, and I know it's done. Very good. [[Read the project.]] Religion is the same object as any other object, but it also contains a spiritual sphere. The catechist teacher is a school educator, he can be a principal, he is a full member of the pedagogical board and I believe that the fact that the concordat is providing us with religion at school is a huge achievement of our 25 years of freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Very beautiful.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u364	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Piotr Uściński, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u365	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! The attempt to reduce the funding of religion from the state budget is in fact an attempt to push religion out of school, it is an attempt to fight against the Church, the Catholic mainly. I have such reflections that Greek mythology, Roman mythology are certain things taught in history lessons, in Polish language lessons. Who in the applicant's opinion should finance this? Mythology is connected with the main pillars of European civilization, with Greek culture, and Roman philosophy. The same is true of Christianity. Christianity is the most important pillar of our culture and our civilisation. Why do you want to fight Christianity and teach it? Religions in schools are not taught only by believers. The believers aren't the only ones learning. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I know myself, and I'm sure you know people who don't believe...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u366	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u367	...who send their children to school for religious lessons, so do not forbid these people, not only believers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u368	Please take the floor and ask Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u369	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Applicants! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At Kukiz15 we have freedom of conscience, we have the right to choose and vote according to conscience, not discipline. As a Member, I can congratulate you on the initiative and the fact that signatures are being collected, but as a Catholic Member, I would like to say that I will not raise my hand. I will not raise my hand because this would not be what our ancestors would want, who for religious lessons were persecuted in the times of partitions, that they would not want my grandparents in the interwar period, with whom I saw school certificates with religion, that they would not want my parents who, in the period of the Polish People's Republic, even before they decided to remove their religious lessons from the school, had also had religious lessons on the certificate. And that's not what I want as a man, a Catholic, a believer. 'Cause the question is, what's in return? As the lay Europe ends, we see today. [[Exactly.]] Question: "Is this the fate you want in Poland?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] 1050 years...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u370	Time's up, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u371	...shows that this is our foundation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u372	I would like to ask Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, a modern club. [[Don't be embarrassed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u373	High Izbo! Receiving the Polish school of secular character took place systematically and step by step... [[Oh, dear.]] ...not necessarily with an open hatch. First the classes were at the last hours, financed by the Church and without evaluation on the certificate. We are currently dealing with a paradoxical situation in which the State fully finances religious activities, but has no influence on the programme of these activities and the selection of staff. School heads have no way of controlling what's going on in religious class. [[They've got surveillance.]] [[Voices from the hall: No!]] [[You'll read it.]] Do you have information on how many countries of the European Union have such a model and do you operate in any other country of the European Union? [[You have to drive around and see.]] [[I was talking about surveillance.]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u374	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! No society developed without religion. Europe, the civilization of the world of Christian culture cannot be understood without knowledge of religion. The science of religion introduces into the history of civilization and culture. [[That's right, it's true.]] Those who do not understand can not convince this in one minute, for one world is better explained with God and another without God. And so it should be in society, and this is the basis for democracy, tolerance and mutual respect. Faith, of course, must be wise, so it is necessary to know it well, and to know it, Madame, an intellectual effort is needed. [[Applause]] and only by intellectual effort, by reflection, as well as by moral effort, which is a good life open to values, which brings human wisdom contained in science, literature, art, also in such books, as the books of revelation or the books of nature, which the educated man [[♪ The bell ♪]] He should know.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u376	Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u377	Question: "Why are you doing this?" I mean, Palikot's gone. [[Applause]] [[Very good, very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u378	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u379	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Your project is very interesting, important and necessary for Polish democracy. Thank you for the offer. I think that today we should talk very seriously and carefully about the separation of the state from the Church. Today, this chapter is disturbed. In fact, today we are dealing with an increasingly existing religious state. Therefore, I believe that cultural education must be introduced into schools, eliminating religious education. This is, I think, also a condition for us to be fully Europeans and to propose European values. Of course, Polish culture also has a religious dimension, but it is important for you to be aware that if there is no cultural education but only religious education, we will have to deal with Mr Rydzyk. [[Applause]] [[You're a genius.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u380	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a modern club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to comment on your behaviour. [[Ask me a question.]] I think you've gotten a little mixed up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u382	Madam, this is the time to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u383	Okay, I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u384	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u385	My question is for the Minister. You talk so much about dialogue, talk about debate, and you have a very good chance of taking a step forward and facing citizens. I'd like to ask, what are you afraid of? What do you say, 150,000? the people who want to talk to you? [[We'll pray for them.]] Why don't you put this motion on the committee for a public hearing? Why is there such a fear in you? I would like to remind you that only 18% voted for you. voters... [[How much for you guys?]] [[That's more than 150,000.]] ... and 82% people are completely different people, remember that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u386	I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u387	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the position of the government, the Minister stressed very strongly the right of parents to raise their children according to their own belief, and I also believe that it is very important that parents have this right and that right should have. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister about ethics lessons, because this is quite closely linked to the topic of today's debate. The previous Minister introduced an obligation to organize ethics lessons at the request of parents for even one student and I wanted to ask the Minister whether the government of Prime Minister Szydło will respect this law and how it looks in schools today. Every parent has the right. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to raise your children according to your own worldview. Thank you. [[Voice from the hall: Why don't you clap?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u388	I ask Mrs Ewa Lieder to ask the question, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u389	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! First of all, I appeal to all of you to listen carefully to the justification of this draft amendment of the law... [[We listened.]] ...not rejecting it at first reading, precisely because it is a citizen's request and signed 155,000 under it. Citizens and citizens. They deserve the great respect and the hearing you promised them. [[We listened.]] My question is: Isn't it better for the development of a young man, for the development of his spirituality, freedom of conscience, and a sense of subjectivity of the individual, that a 16-year-old should voluntarily and consciously attend religious classes, or catechism... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...and not often forced by parents' decision or fear of worse grades? [[Voluntaryly.]] In Gdansk, for example. 16-year-olds may vote for projects in the civil budget. I think they're mature enough to decide their spiritual development. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u390	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Anna Elizabeth Sobeck, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u391	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Catholics are the largest part of taxpayers. So why are you preventing them from financing religion from the state budget? [[But no one forbids it, they don't stand a chance.]] Second question. Is it true that signatures under the citizens' project were collected illegally? For it is permissible to collect signatures for 3 months, while these signatures were collected for 6 months, as informed by the Foundation Pro - Right to Life. [[It's true.]] [[Oh, actually, these are different signatures, worse.]] Is that true? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u392	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u393	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In the explanatory memorandum to the project, the designers claim, that: religion in schools with a symbol of freedom for many has become a symbol of oppression. This is a serious accusation, so I ask: What does this supposed oppression show? Is it that Catholic parents want their children to be raised in the same spirit? Another question. On what basis do you conclude that religious lessons in the present form are religious and serve, quote, the formation of believers? Poland is not a religious country. We have freedom of conscience and religion, but more than 90% of Poles declare themselves Catholics. It is normal, then, to allow students to learn about their religion. It's not understandable either. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why designers...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u394	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u395	...dispute ethics lessons as an alternative to religious lessons. This criticism should not... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u396	I would like to ask Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, to ask you another question. You're welcome. And thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're discussing a civil project today. In the election campaign, Law and Justice announced that they would never reject any civil project at first reading. You can see where you have, how you treat your promises, and you can see it in the 500+ project. You promised you wouldn't reject any of them. Do you really want to throw away a project that's signed by 150,000? people, to the basket, without any conversation, without even a moment of leaning down on this project? I would like to refer to what Mrs Marzena Machalek of Law and Justice said... [[Member.]] [[Good morning.]] ...missary, saying that Polish culture is based on religious uniformity. [[Among other things.]] Well, a bit of history, my fellow Member. Do you know such a name: Adam Kisiel, senator, great patriot of the Republic, Orthodox? [[But this is Christianity.]] A name like that, a name like that. Stanisław Lem, Mr Kaleta, because you... Janusz Korczak, Julian Tuwim. Do you know those names? Not everyone who feels like a Pole is Catholic, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you want to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u398	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u399	...exclusion from the community of people who... [[But most of them...]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u400	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Marzena Machalek a question. Madam President, as regards the correction, this time will therefore be a little longer, but please do not delay too much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u401	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Applicant's Representatives! Here it turns out that the Civic Platform, which is now leaving the room, has become a public defender. [[But all of it?]] You cared about the civic project that came in during the previous term, you had to vote it out, since it did when you had the majority. [[Applause]] Today you pretend to be concerned about civil matters, and you put a few million signatures in the trash. That's the truth. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I call on the representatives of the legislative initiative. We have leaned on this project, we have analysed it very closely, and unfortunately, with heartache we must admit that we must reject it, because - as I have already justified - firstly, it is unconstitutional, inconsistent with the legal order, even not in the main legal course of the European Union, which is strange, it also strikes something that is really our value, so cultural and religious uniformity, which builds our security. And that religious lessons have an important educational value in our schools. I would like to add here that someone has said that he also corrects my misunderstood statement. Of course, it is so that religious lessons and funding of religious lessons by the state are an important element of strengthening these lessons and building values in the Polish school. Hitting the funding of religion is... It's hypocritical to say we don't mind religion. [[Exactly.]] What do you mean, you don't have it when you're putting an alternative like that all the time, that we're either going to finance religion or other things? It's not a real alternative. This is a false alternative. And now Members of the Platform of Presumably Civics who threw a few million signatures into the basket, I would like to say that we have prepared a democratic package in which it was written that citizens' initiatives, which...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u402	Madam, I have added one more minute and I think that there has been enough time for the correction and the task of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u403	Yes, I will, Your Marshal, of course I will, I was already actually heading for the punch line of my speech, but right now I have to get back to my thoughts. A few million signatures were thrown into the basket and our democratic package was rejected, in which we guaranteed that... Here we could discuss how much, but we proposed a million signatures under citizens' request - this proposal, regardless of the views of the High House, will be directed to second reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u404	I would like to ask Mr Lech's next question about the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u405	My question is, how is it in the light of one of the ladies... [[Vice-Marshal Barbara Dolniak disables the mic by Mr Dream Machalek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u406	Mr Lech Dobka - I ask you to ask me another question. Thank you, Commissioner, all this at this stage because I gave you 2.5 minutes. [[I had a minute to ask and two minutes to correct, and your marshal interrupted me, and I don't think that's right.]] I would like to ask Mr Lech for a job, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u407	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say that in the year 1050 the anniversary of the baptism of Poland, the act which we owe to the rise of the Polish state, and perhaps the fact that we speak here in Polish today, I am embarrassed to hear the statements of Members of the Modern State. You brought the debate to the level of money, to the level of how many different needs it would be possible to meet if you gave up funding for religious lessons. On this basis, funding from the state budget can be undermined by many other activities at school and even objects. You forget the value of this object in building, among others. ethical-moral attitudes. The complete ignorance of both educational law in the field of pedagogical supervision, the promotion of teachers, which is also subject to catechesis teachers, comes out openly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as well as the basics of the catechesis of the Catholic Church 2010. Read this - you will understand the absurdity of your statements. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u408	Mr President, time is up. Thank you very much. Referring to Mrs Marzena Machalek - it is not so, Mrs Machalek, that there are 2 minutes to correct. [[You always gave the marshal two minutes.]] This time sets the marshal at a given moment. I gave you a minute and a half to perform. Now, I ask you to ask Mr Ireneusz Breś from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u409	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Listening to this debate, I feel that on the one hand there is overzealousness on the part of the PiS in these thesis. I'm gonna tell my friends that religion and ethics are defending themselves, because it's the form that the state pays for 80 and 90%. The parents are sending the kids. But on the other hand, a friend of Szbek's gave me a bit of a heads-up, because it's not elegant if it's the process of raising children, because that's what these parents think of him as. They believe that if they send children to religious or ethical classes, here I do not separate them to the Catholic or Orthodox Church, but they will get something in this process and they will learn nothing wrong there. It's not elegant to measure lunches. [[Applause]] But I'd like to say that there's some concern about this project... Ten seconds, please, Marshal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...to which the Minister has not responded enough... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: I have not yet responded.]] ...and I'm sure you'll be done with this debate in a moment. I would like you to tell me what is probation and what is the quality of these lessons and what is the supervision of the director, because it did not sound right here, and in the explanatory memorandum, they put it quite strongly on the applicant.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u410	Mr President, it's been almost 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u411	I believe that many of these elements could explain if you presented this information here. Okay? [[All school subjects are subject to the same supervision.]] [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u412	I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u413	Thank you very much, Marshal. Beloved Sisters and Brothers! Boys and girls! It would seem that the smell of Satan is spreading throughout this House. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Ooh... here we go.]] But that's the way it is. Ever since the dawn of time...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u414	Mr President, I remind you of the right choice of words.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u415	Sure, I'm just running out of time, Marshal. You're taking him away from me. You could get an impression, that is, the fact that the fight of good against evil has been going on since the dawn of time. I do not want to talk about those things that my colleagues have already said many times here, from Law and Justice above all, although Mr Sonik restores my faith that there are people with good views in the Platform too. [[Voices from the Good Room?]] Ladies and gentlemen, one of the Members who have already been absent here has said that it is important to think about withdrawing religious lessons and introducing cultural lessons. What kind of culture? Porn culture? [[It's called pseudoculture.]] Think about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Gospel is a book of wisdom, and someone once said, I dedicate it to you: Go and sin no more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u416	I would like to ask you another question by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u417	Thank you, Marshal. One of you, Mr Mieszkowski, proposes that the teaching of religion in schools be replaced by the teaching of culture. Well, that's what we had an example of culture in your edition. In Polish culture, in Polish tradition, everyone deserves respect and proper return in the Polish nation. Poles turn to the priests, and not to Mr Mieszkowski. This is what we had in this edition of the culture you want to propose. I also want to tell you that I am very sorry for how I listen to this debate. I am very sorry for you - and for these countries and here. Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, putting money, material gain above God's values, above God, never ended well for anyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Serving a golden calf never ended well, and it won't end well for...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u418	Madame, it is time for the question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u419	Aren't you afraid you'll share the fate of Palikot? Because there were people here who fought against the Church and religion in schools.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u420	Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u421	Aren't you afraid? [[Applause]] [[Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u422	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[And this gentleman, what he asked, he's gone?]] Mr Raś has already left Parliament, the House. [[Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.]] [[He ran away, they ran away.]] I just want to say that I didn't have time to answer the question. [[But we will.]] I hope that the involved colleagues will answer the questions they have asked. [[Of course.]] I merely presented the government's position. I'll start with one example, ladies and gentlemen. I think you've all been to Brussels. It is indeed such a city that is called the centre of Europe, because they even resigned from the inscription at the airport. Welcome to Brussels, just as everyone welcomes to the airport in Warsaw, Wrocław, Paris. Welcome to Europe. Speaking of all those who are in some kind of trouble not to feel like Europeans. And in Belgium, please, I will read: The Church, in particular the Catholic Church, in the Kingdom of Belgium is treated as an important institution of national culture. The Constitution shall constitute an Article. 181 that the salaries and pensions of the clergy are financed by the State. In addition, the state budget pays salaries to secular ecclesiastical workers treated as so-called. worship servants. Local authorities, on the other hand, have an obligation to provide and cover the cost of housing for priests. The system of Catholic education, which is paid by the state, is very developed. 60% Belgian secondary school pupils attend schools in the Catholic education network. This number goes up to 75%. in Flanders and is at the same time the highest indicator in Europe. The Belgian system also provides the Church with tax advantages, exemption from taxation of income derived from the ownership of buildings or parts thereof in which services are held. In public schools, religious or ethical classes are mandatory, the costs of classes are covered by the Ministry of Education. Why did I use this example? Because it is particularly in the voices of modern Members that such a complex sounds, they want to change the word "European" through cases. [[Complex.]] I remind Mr Mieszkowski, because even when high school is finished, there are Polish language lessons, where it is said, there is such an extensive subject that there are two sources of European culture: mythology and the Bible. We are built on Christian values and on the Church. The medieval Church is the Church, which includes. He introduced his mother tongue and made sure that he really cared for science. Ladies and gentlemen! There have been various questions, various, of course, allegations, including questions to the Ministry of Education, so I will allow myself very quickly to refer to a number of issues, including those already mentioned by Mr Szbek and Mrs Marzena Machalek. There's pedagogical supervision of religious lessons. Really, these are the basic provisions of the Education Act. In preparing for this debate, it is worth actually reaching out to such records. There is also cultural education. This is also the result of the law and the framework teaching plans. The Civic Platform actually has a problem with quotes, it uses them in any way. Not long ago, your president, Grzegorz Schetyn, the only candidate who announced his victory in a joyful way, recently in the newspapers, television and during the meeting of the club, said: We must return to the talk with the Church. It's bad that we've become such a black people lately. Today you are showing how you are implementing the recommendations, the ideas of your President. At the same time, I think that you are unnecessarily competing with Members of the Modern, who are limited to criticizing, embezzling with epithets, themselves making no proposals, or actually only asking for a break, extending the Sejm's deliberations, to say that the Sejm's deliberations are taking place at night. At the same time, Mrs Lubnauer, one of the initiators and volunteers - congratulations on the 150,000 meeting. signatures - together with her fellow Member of the Parliament actually empathizes with the wording and calculations that this 1400 million could be used to feed children. Let me remind you that there's money for this. The Civic Platform and the PSL were indeed unable to use this money and we had to deal with dramatic indicators and at the same time with starving children. There's talk of how many biological and chemical labs you could run, but, ladies and gentlemen, that's what polonists, mathematicians, physicists cost. They're teachers. I see no reason why we discriminate about one group of teachers who actually operate in the education system. We say, let the students gain knowledge, speaking of this equivalent, that instead of a religious lesson, there could be physics, chemistry. Law and Justice really thinks of a ruined network of hours, especially in high school, changing... [[Extend...]] ...and make young people have more lessons in physics, chemistry, history, especially so that high school doesn't become a high school prep course for high school, but actually an education school. [[Applause]] But in religion classes, children learn. These are once again valuable and disqualifying assessments, completely unnecessary in the substantive discussion. When we put together the money you want to discuss here, with equal concern I ask the new Members of Modern Poland from Modern Poland. en, excuse me, with a dot on the front, for you to verify the spending of European funds. These are millions, hundreds of millions of zlotys for absurd projects from the Human Capital, many of which used you as foundations and associations. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about the fact that the teacher of religion is without pedagogical supervision - here I am referring to individual questions - I would like to say that the Episcopate is one of the most serious and balanced partners who is just showing their tolerance and respect. And I would like to teach this tolerance to Mrs Pomaska among others... [[Pomaskie.]] ...which, when she was chairman of the European Union Committee on Affairs, even at committee meetings, blocked the possibility of speaking. [[Really?]] Every project of the last eight years has been pushed in a way... [[Shame.]] ...disputed, actually, opposition amendments... [[That's how kids go to the Seym.]] ...they didn't go through. I just want to remind Mrs. Pomasca what you said... [[Pomaska, Minister.]] Pomaska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u424	Minister, I have a request...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u425	In case of names, he's the owner of the name... Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak: ...we'll focus on the answers, because my list is growing in terms of corrections... [[What's there to correct?]] You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u426	...so you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u427	...therefore we will discuss it for a long time. She also showed her tolerance by tweeting her bike tour while her altars were disturbing her in the way of God's Body. [[Right.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Szumilas, this is actually an almost provocative question, talking about ethics lessons, because they are indeed unfulfilled because the State has not secured the means for implementing ethics lessons. [[Corrigendum.]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to respond to your comments, but reminding you how the law on the education system sounds, what the constitution is. And it's not, ladies and gentlemen, a matter of respect or not, because respect for the people who collected signatures, as much as possible, great. Discord is simply due to the fact that it is unconstitutional and incompatible with the Labour Code. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u428	Thank you very much. Mr Mieszkowski asked for a corrigendum. One minute, after that, I'll turn off the microphone. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u429	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Minister! I would add to our tradition a Roman culture that you have not mentioned. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Who is a continuation of Greek, took many of it. Read mythology.]] This is worth remembering, because quite recently Prime Minister Gliński at the inauguration of the European Capital of Culture wanted to forget that Roman culture and Greek culture were our axiological foundation. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] I will not refer to primitive statements and reflections, because Mr Kalita... [[Voice from the room: Kalety.]] Kalety, I'm sorry. [[But brilliantly, I read the corrigendum.]] Kalita, Kalety, whatever your name is. Your name is very nice... [[But you're not.]] ...but keep in mind that this is not the way to cultivate democracy. You smash, you smash, you undermine democratic ethics. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u430	I would like to ask Mrs Ursula Augustyn. One minute, too. [[So how many of these adjustments are there gonna be?]] [[She wasn't mentioned.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u431	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I wanted to correct, because you clearly did not understand the position of the Civic Platform Club and despite your very witty speech about our president and our club, I would like to say once again that the Civic Platform in its position stressed the importance of teaching religion at school. Please weigh one thing. This is that when we propose a debate, we do not say that we are against it. We're offering to talk. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There was an opportunity.]] [[There was an opportunity in last term.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u432	Katarzyna Lubnauer, please, also on the issue of correction. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u433	Minister, I wouldn't say 1350 million with such disregard, because it's quite a lot of money. Let me remind you that this morning you had a problem of 200 million, which is a much smaller amount, for the 500+ programme. I understand that this blocks, among other things, the launch of it already in the first quarter, even though other laws managed to pass much faster. However, let me remind you that the government does not have its money, has public money and should lean in to care about their spending. Let us also note that there may not be any trouble with children's lunches at the moment, although I noticed that this was something that Prime Minister Szydło spoke about in the European Parliament, paying attention to how Polish children starve, but certainly there are no chemical, biological and physical studios in Polish schools. [[Voice from the hall: But not because of religion.]] I didn't see any money in the state budget next year for this purpose. Therefore, as you can see, there is no free money that we could use to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u434	Mrs Krystyna Shumilas on the correction. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u435	Minister, it is strange that you did not understand my question, because it was very simple: Will the government continue to support education and the right of parents to choose an ethics lesson? It was a simple question. On the other hand, it is a pity that the Minister does not know the rules for financing lessons and financing local governments. Here's the question: How much for the 2016 government Mrs Szydło, the Minister has allocated...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u436	Madame, this was the time to correct, not the next question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u437	...to study ethics in schools?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u438	Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska on the issue of correction. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u439	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! First of all, for the first time in this speech, I have the opportunity to tell you this, but using the presence of the Minister of Education, I will allow myself. My name changes like the adjective name Pomaska, not Pomaska. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: That's why I improved.]] Thank you very much. Secondly, Minister, we worked together in the Committee on European Union Affairs, but it seemed to me that the conclusion of this cooperation was that, however, following a certain framework, following the rules of procedure is a good model. And I must say that these patterns are also followed by my successor today, President Isabella Kloc, on this committee. I'd like to invite you to this session. I have to admit, he's using these patterns. even in a rather sketchy way, often not allowing Members to vote, but I do not have any particular complaints about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u440	Member, but this is not a correction. Please proceed to the corrigendum, or I'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u441	And thirdly, thirdly, everything should be done with your head. Likewise, setting altars on the day of God's Body, lead and supervise the conduct of religious instruction. Thank you very much. [[And ride a bike.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u442	Here you go, Mr. Piotr Kalet's corrigendum. One minute, too. If this time is exceeded...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u443	That's enough. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret to say that the gentleman whom I wanted to answer to his malice is no longer here. He said more or less such words that he would not respond to my primitive speeches. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of judgment. Indeed, it can be said that some speeches are substantive, unsubstantiated, primitive or not, but maybe I will answer in this way: sometimes primitive people have to respond primitively. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: I vice versa.]] [[The voice from the hall: the Minister was primitive?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u444	I ask the Minister to speak and then the representative of the applicants. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, it is very short for Mrs Augustine. Just to remind you that you had the chance - the project was submitted on 5 October 2015 - to discuss, debate and show your citizenship, which you still have in your name. [[Voice from the Chamber: Instead of choosing the judges of the Tribunal.]] In the case of Mrs Lubnauer, this is indeed a disregard for religious teachers... [[Very funny, Minister.]] ...because you think these teachers don't need to be paid and others do. So I'm not ignoring it, because a billion zlotys is just to pay for teaching religion with this... [[Voice from the hall: The Church will pay.]] ...to whom, right, this payment is due. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mrs Shumilas, we are just about to start doing this, i.e. support, among other things, student choices. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u446	Thank you very much. Please address the representative of the Committee of the Legislative Initiative of Mr Marcin Celiński. You're welcome. [[Aah! Aah! Aah!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you so much for all your speeches. I will try to do so, because certain thesis appeared, and in their speech refer to every problem, and not necessarily to every speech, if it was connected. First of all, I want to... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: To those addressed to you.]] Excuse me? [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: To those addressed to you.]] Yes, yes, of course, I wouldn't dare speak for the Minister. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Thank you.]] Thank you very much to the representatives of the Civic Platform, Kukiz,15 and Modern Clubs. I very much appreciate the fact that, regardless of whether you agree substantively with our proposal or not at this point, you stand in the position that 155 thousand. signatures should not be thrown into the basket and it would be worthwhile to have a substantive discussion in the education committee and to allow us not to discuss what is happening today, briefly and very politically, about what citizens want. This is, of course, the legal law of the Sejm and the majority of the Sejm, whether they want to listen or not. The question of keeping promises is not a legal issue, it is a matter of honour. You don't discuss honor, either you have honor or you don't. I answer the questions, at least the ones I was able to fish out. The Member speaking on behalf of the PiS Club asks me if I know that religion is in 24 countries. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I know, we have prepared a study ourselves, only whether you are kindly researching, which means religion in each of these 24 countries, because this character of catechesis, which is in Poland, is present in seven countries. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I am in charge of drawing up - when I am finished, I will give it to you - where we have compiled these 24 countries tabularly as regards the way in which the programmes are drawn up in terms of substantive supervision, pedagogical supervision and the appointment of teachers for this subject. This is, ladies and gentlemen, talking about 24 countries, this is talking about the entire vegetable range, and not all of these vegetables are carrots, carrots are just some of these vegetables, it's a whole range of vegetables. This is a whole range of classes with state programs to learn about value systems. I can no longer remember who, perhaps in the notes, cited France's example. There's no religion in France, there's an object in France called religious facts. This is completely different from the catechesis in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to develop this because it's not the subject of our proposal, it's why 85 students attend catechesis, of course, taking these data as correct despite the origin of a source directly interested in indicating that this is a large number. I'm not getting involved in this discussion. I know perfectly well - and you know perfectly well - what is the voluntary participation in religious activities, especially in small centres. But it doesn't concern our proposal, it's not an issue that would be in its scope. The voice of Mr Sonik, who spoke about the crisis of Europe's identity, the emptyness of ideas, is very significant. It is precisely this crisis that needs to be looked at and attention must be paid to who can fill these lessons in our country and with what content. I mentioned the Częstochowa example. If you don't know him, check him out, read him. A system in which a country has no control over a type of catechesis is not a good system, it is not a system that will protect us in the future, which will protect those values that are close to you. That's what you should be thinking about for the future. Question of Mrs Pomaska: Does the citizens' project involve the elimination of religion? No. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bit related to Mrs Masłowska's voice: If this money is more important than God, defend it. And who will defend God then? We're talking about money, and I have the impression that you guys don't want to hear or learn what we want to say. I heard a lot of hard words here about what a threat it is to the Polish people's existence are ideas such as ours. In concept: we are a threat to the Polish people. Ladies and gentlemen, look at, for example, the American - very often we refer to this - to American patriotism, a very religious society in which the distance of the education system and the state from religion is unprecedented in Europe. There is no American state in which religion would be in schools. [[The president vows to the Bible.]] That's right. But do you know the American state of religion in schools? No. That's not enough. It's forbidden. Religion is organized... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Because there is basic private education.]] In public schools, Minister. There are also public schools in the United States. There is no religion in public schools and there is a ban on conducting these activities. [[Call the Germans.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in Germany... [[We're in Europe.]] We're in Europe. I'm very happy for you. The more I hear from you that we are in Europe, the more I am happy. [[We always have been.]] [[Applause]] In Germany, ladies and gentlemen, there's... [[Mandatory. I've been hospitating religious lessons. It's mandatory.]] Sure. In Germany, ladies and gentlemen, there is a statutory system that makes the German state, together with religious unions, establish a program for teaching religion... [[That's right, from the state budget.]] So, as you have hospitated, you know very well that there is a system completely different from ours, because in our case, the religious union is obliged only to state what it intends to do. There is a quality issue in many voices. You often say that this catechesis is excellent, excellently conducted. I'll tell you this: you don't really know it, nor do I know it. You are based on some of your limited information, and so am I, because there is no quality control system for these lessons in Poland. There isn't. Whatever the Minister says at the moment, there is no such system, there is no system comparable to the supervision of maths. There's nothing to talk about. There is no situation in which you can discuss with your assigned or taken teacher a mission. Don't tell me you're here... [[That's not true.]] [[Of course not.]] Mr President, I know that you have worked in education, and you know very well that there is no other social form of reconciliation of this kind... [[Because of me, the catechist left school.]] [[The director's in charge of catechesis.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u448	You're welcome. Now you're taking the floor. Representative of the Marcin Celiński Legislative Initiative Committee. So I understand that we're going to write it down in the annals of good deeds, but we can't make it a system. Unfortunately, sir. [[It's a system, but nobody wants to use it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, another question, from Mrs Wróblewska of the PiS. What hinders applicants from following the decal, and what is wrong with the Gospel? I answer: Nothing interferes and we see nothing wrong in the Gospel. Our project does not concern, does not change the Gospel, nor does it propose changes in the Decalogue. Question of Mr Tulayev: Why are we submitting non-constitutional projects? This is, you know, a really cool question. It's more or less this: why are we in favour of hitting someone?, why are we in favour of hurting someone?. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We have submitted a project in our opinion fully in line with the constitution. If Mr Tułaev believes that this project is incompatible with the Constitution, I understand - however risky this saying will be in this Chamber - that there are appropriate authorities of the State which check such compliance with the Constitution. Certainly not a single Member. Another question. Who should finance mythology, and why do you want to fight Christianity? Ladies and gentlemen, I am not a specialist in school programs today, but I recall my high school program in which I worked both mythology and the Bible as part of the literature that was on the school program. I don't know what it's like today. I see nothing wrong with doing this on Polish and history, especially since it is - beyond the axiological value - very good historical sources and very much talk about our past, about the past of people, so clearly a certain level, some knowledge about religion, different systems of values, as well as the history of religion should be given at school and we do not protest against it, we protest against funding the evangelization mission of the Church, not teaching the history of religion. Why do you want to fight Christianity? Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone finds in our project the word that we want to fight anyone, and Christianity in particular, I am able to fund some big reward immediately. Excuse me? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Are you a believer?]] What does it matter, sir? [[Just out of curiosity.]] The Constitution in force doesn't order... [[Of course, you don't have to answer.]] First of all, I don't have to answer, second of all, you don't really have the right to ask. [[Applause]] [[I'm just asking out of courtesy and curiosity. I'm not asking what you believe.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Pihowicz's question is how many countries have a model like Poland. In seven European countries there is a model such as in Poland, i.e. confessional catechesis conducted by religious unions and financed by the state. We do not claim that Poland is the only country in the world with this system. We say this system is bad. Of course, such an analysis would require something else that we have not done, because it is a big undertaking, a deepening of some constitutional knowledge related to these countries - whether in these seven countries constitutional provisions on the neutrality of the state in matters of worldview are formulated in a similar way as in Poland, because they can be formulated differently and for example. designate a dominant religion, or there may be a state church there. Such examples are in Europe. That's the question. I think Mrs Hryniewicz of PiS: why are you doing this? For internal needs, ladies and gentlemen, and for finding inconsistencies in the system. We are doing this for the repair of the Republic of Poland, how much it would not like the majority of the parliament. The question, Mrs Sobecka, is it true that the signatures were collected unlawfully. Member, it is not true. It's not true. It's a bit of a heat-up charge that came up in September or October. I do not have full knowledge of the proceedings, but I know that the persons who put forward this plea have submitted it in the manner prescribed for the submission of such a plea, which has not been confirmed, the application has been accepted, which is proof of my presence in this Chamber. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it could be said that there have been doubts about the outcome of the recent parliamentary elections, because there have been protests to the State Election Commission, you can say so, but that does not change the fact that you are elected. Therefore, the fact that a specific environment wanted to undermine our proposal by raising some alleged formal irregularities does not indicate that these irregularities have occurred. They weren't there. That's why I'm standing in front of you. Ladies and gentlemen, another question, Mr Dziuba, is the question of how oppression is manifested and on what basis do we claim that religion is confessional. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we may differ in whether religion should be confessional or not, whether it should be financed from the state budget or not, we may differ, but at least let us not deceive ourselves and each other. What religion is in Polish schools, everyone sees and everyone knows. [[Just like mathematics and Polish language.]] Similarly, in the same way, I agree with you, sir. I won't comment on Satan's itching, I'm not prepared, I'm sorry. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[And I don't believe it.]] You can declare whether you believe or not. As you know, I am a liberal, I absolutely accept this declaration, I like you still... [[I don't know you.]] ... Even though you're an atheist. Money above God, someone said something like that. Oh, I think it was from the Member representing the position of PiS, if I remember correctly, and if I'm wrong, I apologize for the charge concerning the initiator and representative of our committee, Mr Leszek Jażdżewski, that he is using some financial grants. Let me tell you this: this is an attempt to depreciate our initiative, an attempt actually warmed up a little bit, because it's been mentioned from the beginning. There is a small number of volunteers sitting in the gallery, who have nothing to do with Leszek Jażjewski's writing. We are talking about the Citizens' Committee here, we are talking about a certain spontaneity of action. On this civic committee, ladies and gentlemen, there were doctors, there were teachers, there were representatives of various professions, but if we were to consider that our initiative was financed by contributions to the health fund, because doctors participated in it, it would be a rhetorical exaggeration. I think that's a rhetorical exaggeration. It is no secret that Leszek's publisher of Liberté!, led by Leszek, takes part in grant competitions, not only in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, but in command of the relationship between this grant and the activities of this initiative it is probably the construction according to which Ryszard Petru is a spy of the GRU. [[You didn't understand the comparison.]] This is the construction: someone's been through it before. [[Can I correct it?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has financed itself from its own donations, the committee will present... [[That's not the point.]] ...on a statutory date, his report. Our activities, all those who participated in this committee, were pro bono activities, had nothing to do with any public grant. If the Member claims that this had something to do with it, I am inclined if anyone can prove to me that in the last 10 years I have received, for example, a cash out of public money, I am willing to pay ten times that amount for any given purpose. It was raised not by me. I think it's... [[You misunderstood. That's not the point.]] ...unfairness of the case. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if I've exhausted all the questions because there's been a lot of them, but I think I've raised all the questions. I'm also going to say that I didn't come here, ladies and gentlemen, with the thought that I would convince you of my views, because if we had the same views, I wouldn't come here again, because you wouldn't be making the laws that I'm dreaming of, and we wouldn't have to collect signatures to make them appear. I have come to you today so that we can have a substantive discussion about a topic that has mobilized 155,000 so much. citizens that have submitted this request. We can talk in substance, of course, if you pass it on to the committee and wish not to say in round sentences that these are 24 countries, just think about it. in the course of committee work, how it looks in these countries. This is really very interesting knowledge. With regard to government opinions. We differ, we find no logical link between the funding by religious unions of catechesis and the violation of any freedom of conscience and religion. No provision of the Constitution or of laws in this area imposes an obligation on the State to finance each of the rights granted to citizens. The constitution's writing and spirit implies freedom of choice, not the financing of each of the citizens' choices in the axiological sphere. We are well aware that the funding resulting from the Act applies to all registered religious unions, which is raised, of course, yes. Excuse me, this is one of the other people who asked you about the concordat. Concordat is so important that it is a standard in relations with other religious unions as well. On the other hand, the advantage of our solution is that it will also apply to non-registered believers, as well as to religiously indifferent or unbelievers. We make our proposal in the faith that it is a proposal to improve the standard of equality and to implement the provisions on the neutrality of the state's worldview. In the explanatory statement presented in the previous speech, I referred to the nature of catechesis in Poland. Comparing it to non-confessional religious activities in other countries is unjustified, once again, from these 24 countries only 7 have a model similar to Polish. The special treatment and location of the concordat catechesis as a place to carry out the Church's mission, the independence of the Church in shaping the curricula and in designating those who carry out these programmes, the lack of State supervision of these activities do not allow the catechesis in such a form to be considered an integral part of education covered by the provision of free access to it. That's our opinion. In order for religion to become part of such free constitutionally guaranteed education in Poland, it should become a non-confessional religion, i.e. with programs shaped if not by the state itself, with the decisive participation of the state. We assume... [[That would have to be mandatory.]] It would not have to be mandatory, it would not have to be mandatory, Mr. President. The State provides very many services that are not mandatory, e.g. medical care is widely available and guaranteed, free of charge, and whether you use it or not, this is your decision. The changes that need to be made in law to change the nature of catechesis, to make it logical that it is financed, are much deeper than what we propose. Now the other thing, the age limit. I'll be honest with you, we didn't expect this case to be that emotional. We thought it was quite natural and generally accepted that sixteen - if a 17-year-old is not a year-old child for whom parents make all decisions. [[A year-old kid doesn't go to school.]] He's not a 7-year-old kid. He's a completely formed man, and I'd like to return... [[Well, not yet.]] ...attention that you're saying are big words about violating some laws. These are all contractual boundaries. I would like to remind you or inform you that Polish criminal law recognizes a 15-year-old who has committed a serious crime as capable of taking responsibility under the rules for adults. The limit for sexual intercourse is 15 years. Do you really think that criminal responsibility and sexual intercourse are such invalid decisions that can be entrusted to a 15-year-old boy, and that the decision to go to catechesis classes is beyond a 16-year-old? [[Applause]] [[So you have to raise it, you're right.]] I understand that the Member will take... [[I absolutely agree.]] ...to amend the Penal Code and family law in this area. [[You're gonna back me up.]] For now, unfortunately, it's just a non-parliamental one. [[Aren't you going to back me up?]] I am not sure, sir, because I think that treating children, treating young people on the basis of their parents' property is not what will give us a good future and a good upbringing of young people. [[Let's cut it down.]] Sir, it's all in your hands. Fourteen more, and you're gonna fold... [[Into you. I want you to come clean about who you are.]] The difference between us is... I'm asking for peace and quiet and no polemics, okay? We're listening. [[Your Marshal, please...]] [[Excuse me, Marshal, but...]] You're welcome, sir. [[There's no buts.]] All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u449	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to put an end to this matter, not because I'm finally going to be deciphered, who I am, but because I think I've exhausted it. Ladies and gentlemen, I've talked about this before. The essence of the citizens' project is the introduction to the public debate of matters which parliamentarians do not notice, they do not consider as part of their programme. In principle, civil projects have been rejected at first reading by Parliament's recent terms of office without the possibility of substantive consideration in further proceedings. The reason why they were rejected was because they did not join the program of rulers, sometimes alleged, stated a priori unconstitutionality. The representatives of the current ruling majority have made it one of the guiding themes of their campaign to ignore civilised projects. Not the current Prime Minister Szydło, but other representatives of Law and Justice promised that an informal rule would disappear, according to which the first reading for a civil project is the last reading. These people are not in the courtroom, but I would like to appeal to them for the wall that the Sejm is holding back from civil projects to disappear. This is what I call for on my own behalf, on behalf of all those who wish to bring a citizens' initiative to this Sejm. First of all, I appeal to the absent, but I hope that you will hand this over, the leader of the ruling majority: Mr Kaczyński, tear down this wall. [[We won't.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mrs Marzena Machalek submitted a corrigendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u450	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! This is where I address the applicant's representative. Let's respect each other. If you are quoting this lady's words, then this lady is Marzena Machalek, which is me. [[Representative of the Marcin Celiński Legislative Initiative Committee: I am very sorry.]] I will therefore refer to what you said. You don't understand, or you deliberately don't want to understand what you're saying. You here are very strongly appealing that because religion is some opinion, ideology, religion, it should not be financed from the state budget, and, as I said, you use it very much to promote leftist ideologies, among others. in writing, Liberté! Therefore, it would be worth passing it on precisely here. It is indeed extremely wrong, and it is an exceptional hypocrisy, that on the one hand you use the state budget abundantly to promote your ideology, and on the other hand you attack the funding of religion in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u451	Thank you, Member. You're still in corrective mode, and you're... But I would very much ask that this be corrected, ladies and gentlemen... [[But there's nothing to straighten out.]] ...because I wanted the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u452	Straighten up. The letter "Liberté!' is not subsidised from the state budget. Publisher Liberté! If the Catholic Church takes part in the competitions... [[The Ministry of Culture and Heritage... that's not true.]] ...we don't mind. [[But it's money...]] Comparing catechesis to writing and ideas is impossible. At the moment, I declare that I am giving you an annual subscription to Liberté! It's gonna come to your address so you'll know it's different. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u453	Please take the floor of the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska. Please, ma'am. [[Mr Marek Ruciński gives his hand to the Representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Marcin Celiński]] [[I wanted to thank you very much for the cultural lesson in this Seym.]] I'd like to ask you to calm down. Please, let's give the Minister a chance. [[Ronaldo, Ronaldo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u454	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Complainer! With great focus and great respect, I listened to your speech. I'm gonna go over a lot of things because I'm reading your blog. Your comments on the education system are very valuable. I agree with a lot of people. That's why I'm surprised... It was a big mess in your speech when you approached the president of Jarosław Kaczyński in the modern narrative. The members of this group, together with the PR, are practicing this kind of method, trying to be true that this is the theme. That's disrespectful. Therefore, let us remain respectful of this, although in disagreement with what we say or how we judge reality, with respect for the law. You're declaring whether you're suggesting that a referral to a committee would be more valuable for this project. No. Please note that we allow Parliament to tell everyone about everything. You have unlimited time. You're raising media interest today. Journalists, even when I was at a conference on broadband Internet, thought it was more important to ask about your project. That proves you've really focused your attention. We all have a chance to talk about it. On the committee, you wouldn't have had that chance. [[How can you not?]] If in this connection you say, with all your great knowledge of education, because I really appreciate it by reading your blog, because we are actually preparing for very big changes and you also see the need for such a very big change in the education system... I find that it was deliberate in your speech that you did not notice that pedagogical supervision was carried out over religious lessons. Not much, religious teachers are members of the pedagogical council. You know very well that programs are already in a slightly looser relationship with the state. This was caused, among others, by this. Civic Platform and PSL. There are software bases. Therefore, I ask that you accept this amendment, and this warning that pedagogical supervision is exercised over religion. And that he's weak, just like Polish math? Yeah, because the Civic Platform and the PSL pedagogical surveillance have outlawed the education system. [[Applause]] [[I don't think so, Madame.]] We want that surveillance back. At the same time, you emphasize - and I'm still trying to maintain that respect - that he will not disappear, despite this bump in your speech - that you do not want to depreciate anything. Please tell me: Isn't it depreciating to call religion lessons a grocery store? [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] I would also like to draw attention to what affects those listening to you. Metaphors, symbolism, of course, are needed as much as possible to make the phrase softer, and to listen better, but, unfortunately, in some words you just have to weigh them. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, literally the last references, you were delighted that one of the messengers said that we were in Europe. You know very well because you are a very intelligent man, very educated that we have been in Europe since 966, we have always been there. In addition, in central Europe, in a wonderful place, on the route of many roads, we connect the East and the West. And you probably remember why we were baptized, why we wanted there to be one religion. It was one of the basic values, because it was a long process, as you remember. I knew one thing: that in order to create identity and state, there must be not only one king and one money, but also one religion and one faith. His wisdom will probably be reminiscent of 1050 years on the anniversary of his baptism. All you have to do is use that wisdom. She's not getting old. These are so-called. universal values, which we talk about in Polish language and history lessons, when we emphasize where our roots come from. From Greece and from Christendom. Rome is on the way, in different varieties. [[Voice from the room: Inquisition!]] One last thing. Also when we are discussing Europe, I remind you of the Treaty of Lisbon, it is our right to decide what we have in the world, how we solve the issues of religion and our own faith. It's not just the treaty that doesn't usurp the right to interfere. I remind you of the British protocol proposed by the sleeper. Lech Kaczyński, who particularly distinguished this sphere of Polish life. Let's respect each other, even though we may disagree. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u455	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. A motion for rejection at first reading of the bill was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. [[In corrigendum mode, Your Marshal.]] It's too late, you haven't been replaced and... Point taken, you had to have done it before. I'm sorry, sir. You haven't been exchanged, sir. I'm so sorry. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure and the Messenger's Affairs on the application of the Chief Police Commissioner of 17 November 2015 to the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalek (print No 188). I ask Mr Vladimir Bernacki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u456	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs Committee, in print No 188, on the case of Mr Jacek Żalk. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Chief Police Commissioner, through the Attorney General, asked the Marshal of the Sejm to agree to be held responsible for the offence of Mr Jacek Żalka in the case of an act committed on 21 June 2015. The Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs Committee of 13 January 2016 following a debate, and earlier after hearing the position of the chief police chief's representative and Mr Jacek Żalka, after I said the debate, decided to recommend that the High House reject the application of the Chief Police Commissioner to give his consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-sejm-09-2.u457	Thank you very much, sir. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. As I do not see Mr Jack Żalk, I inform you that we will proceed to the vote on this subject at the next session of the Sejm. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 9th meeting of the Polish Sejm. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 9th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 10th session of the Sejm, convened on 28 and 29 January 2016, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. Starting of the sitting at 3 p.m. 20. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 19 min 27]]
