ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Senators, please take your seats. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with items: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in 2016 and considering it as item 13 of the agenda, after the Act establishing the Academy of War Arts. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. There's no objection. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the period from 22 October 2015 to 31 March 2016. I would like to welcome the guests on this occasion: Mr Piotr Duda, President of the Social Dialogue Council, President of the National Commission of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity) I warmly welcome the President and all other guests invited. [[Applause]] The text of the report is contained in print No 167. The Senate Marshal sent the report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Commission examined the report at its meeting on 2 June 2016 and informed the Senate Marshal. I ask the President of the Social Dialogue Council, Mr Piotr Duda, to take the floor and present the report. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u2	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators of the Republic of Poland! Dear guests! Dear Members of the Social Dialogue Council! For the first time in history, the president of the new institution, which is the Social Dialogue Council, is reporting to representatives of the Polish Parliament on its work. This fact and the fact that the President and the members of the Council are appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland, who is the patron of institutional social dialogue, proves that the role of this dialogue in our country has increased significantly. But this is just the beginning. The Social Dialogue Council should aim for even greater autonomy by becoming an independent platform for social dialogue, supported by public authorities, with a position similar to the Ombudsman or, for example, the Ombudsman of children's rights. Because that was the idea of creating a bill on the Council of Social Dialogue. Time is running out, almost a year has passed since we had the honour and pleasure of answering senators' questions in the debate on the Council of Social Dialogue Act in this House. Then all the senators unanimously supported this bill, which has been in operation since October. Because it came into force last October. Ladies and gentlemen, the path to the Social Dialogue Council was not easy or short, and its finality was not obvious at all. When in June 2013, after the failure of negotiations on government changes in the Labour Code, trade unions suspended their participation in the Tripartite Commission for Economic and Social Affairs, we were surrounded by protests about the lack of willingness to conduct social dialogue. We were blamed for causing this crisis of social dialogue. But this crisis, as history has shown, has become the beginning of a good change and a deep reform. It also allowed the real, not fictional, as has been the case so far, implementation of the article. 20 of our constitution, an article that talks about an economy based on a socio-market model, but also on dialogue and solidarity between all parties, which is very important for us, for the social side. The previous formula for social dialogue was a denial of this idea. The dominant position was the government, which often ignored the agreements of the partners and introduced solutions without looking at the rights of the other parties. The Tripartite Commission has become a place of monologue, not dialogue, which was de facto limited only to information about decisions. We have often said that it is a forpoczta to which the rulers come and inform the social side, that is, the trade union side and the employers' side of what they are going to do. That's not what dialogue is about. We have often witnessed embarrassing decisions and, in fact, ignorance, a significant example of which was the introduction of changes to the Labour Code during negotiations in the Tripartite Commission. Social dialogue crisis That's what I'm gonna say. It was the fault of the previous government, which was the government, thus treating the social partners, in fact broke the constitution. Today so much, almost every day "Whether it's in the media or in the parliament" We are talking about our constitution, about the rule of law. At the same time, for two years when there was no social dialogue, we asked the European institutions for help, for support, indicating that the Article was not being implemented. 20 constitutions. And somehow neither the European Commission nor the Venice Commission were interested in this difficult situation of lack of social dialogue in our country. The position of the social partners today is quite different. The Social Dialogue Council gives them greater independence, stronger power and transparency of dialogue, but also gives partners greater responsibility. At the same time, it imposes a number of important responsibilities on the government side. For example, in a situation where the government rejects the agreement of the social partners, it has a public obligation to justify its refusal in writing. Does this mean that dialogue will always end with an agreement? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, An example of this is the lack of agreement on the reduction of the retirement age. We talked in teams and in the bureau, and we didn't come to an agreement. But no one can say today that we have the wrong tool, no one can blame it. In this case, perhaps there was no good will, or each side simply stands in its position. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first report by the President of the Social Dialogue Council, which is why a few thanks are needed before I go to it. Because this law, which last year was adopted by Parliament, was a very important document for us, for workers and employers, but also for the rulers, and for everyone in our country in general. First of all, I would like to thank the trade unionists from the Solidarity Alliance, the OPZZ and the Trade Union Forum for being able to talk to each other and work on this project together, despite many differences. We in 2013, when we left the Tripartite Committee, did not wait for the government to prepare us another offer of social dialogue We ourselves initiated the bill and worked together on it. I would also like to thank the employers of the Confederation of Leviathan, the Employers of the Republic of Poland, the Business Centre Club and of course Polish Craft For the fact that we were able to talk for a year and prepare a new project, a new formula for social dialogue and to negotiate jointly with the Polish government. It is also thanks to our 2-year effort that we have worked out just this compromise that I was just talking about. I would also like to thank the previous President, Bronisław Komorowski, who supported these negotiations and then ended the whole legislative process with his immediate signature. This allowed for such urgent and necessary work to be started during the previous term of office. We really cared about time. I would also like to thank the former government, Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, who, in the final work on the establishment of the RDS, took note of the compromise of the social partners and, thanks to the adoption of the project as a government project, addressed it to the so-called. A quick path. Here I would like to express my special thanks to Minister Kosiniak-Kamish, who actually patronized this project from the government. And we've been working, you can say, days and nights to get this project to committee and parliament as soon as possible. I would also like to thank parliamentarians from this point of view, particularly you, all the senators who voted here in the upper chamber on this project in the previous term. Thank you very much, because this document, as you can see, is working as a tool for social dialogue, and this tool was very much needed. I would also like to thank the new, current government Prime Minister Beata Szydło for her quick appointment to the council of her ministers, representatives. I would like to point out from this point of view that this was a very difficult situation, because the Social Dialogue Council was starting its operation, so to speak, at the interface of governments. Parliamentary elections, presidential elections, old government, new government... Indeed, if it were not for the good will of the rulers, we would have waited a very long time for the first meeting of the Social Dialogue Council. And I would also like to thank President Andrzej Duda from this point on for the swift appointment of the members of the Social Dialogue Council, which allowed us to start such a necessary dialogue in 2015. As I said at the outset, today the President of the Republic of Poland is the guardian of social dialogue and it is the President, not the Government, who appoints members of the Social Dialogue Council. The first meeting was held with the President and this is also very important for us. Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted a detailed report in writing to the Senate Marshal, which is why I will only present his most important points, encouraging him to read the entire document. The President of the Council, whose term of office lasts 1 year, shall be alternately represented by the trade union side, employers and the government side. The work shall be headed by a bureau composed of the Chair and Vice-Chairmen of the Council from all sides of the dialogue. This is so important to us because so far the dominant position was held by the government. The President of the Social Dialogue Council was only a representative of the government and he also appointed members of the Social Dialogue Council. It was in our view that the social side should have been changed and changed. I have the honour to lead the Social Dialogue Council and its term of office until November. I believe that the formula of the Social Dialogue Council chaired by either a trade union representative or an employer's representative, as in the next term or a government representative, is a very good formula. The Council of Workers' Representatives consists of 8 representatives of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union, the Trade Union Forum, the National Trade Union Agreement; for employers 6 people from the Confederation of Leviathan, Employers of the Republic of Poland, Business Centre Club and the Association of Polish Crafts; 11 constitutional ministers sit on the board on behalf of the government, among others. Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy. At this point I would like to tell you that this law was born on the basis of what we saw during the work of the Tripartite Committee. Although ministers were in the Tripartite Commission, we rarely saw them at the Tripartite Commission. They came once a year, as did the Minister of Finance during the budgetary debate. That was unacceptable. Therefore, the law makes it clear: constitutional ministers, not substitutes, not substitutions. Today, too, we are dealing with substitution attempts when the Minister has no time. As President of the Social Dialogue Council, I do not take this into account. Because there must be decision-makers at meetings of the Social Dialogue Council. And that's what happens. There are exceptions when the minister has to go somewhere, but there is order in this case and this is very important to us. There are also 3 representatives of the President of the Republic of Poland, the National Bank of Poland and the Central Statistical Office. I would also like to tell you that the President of the Republic of Poland has appointed his representative on the Council, but he is also the President's adviser for social affairs and social dialogue. This is very important. We have a current contact with the person who is here today in the O.R. The President is the guardian of the Constitution and is the guardian of social dialogue, in particular compliance with the article. 12 constitutions, as well as articles. 20 of our constitution. Such a membership of the Social Dialogue Council guarantees representativeness and participation in the dialogue of those who have the legitimacy to take decisions; in plain terms, they are those with whom agreements can be concluded. The Social Dialogue Council Act entered into force on 11 September 2015 and the Council replaced the Tripartite Commission for Economic and Social Affairs, which, after 14 years of operation, had exhausted its formula, ceased to be... more, it was never really an effective tool for partnership discussion. On 22 October 2015, President Andrzej Duda appointed members of the Council, and on 11 December last year he appointed new representatives of the government, i.e. Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Her first meeting took place on 14 December, so in two days' time it would be six months. The Social Dialogue Council has adopted an ambitious plan covering the most important areas of functioning of the State, such as social security reform, remuneration rules in the national economy, tax system, business conditions, raw and energy and climate policy, public procurement, health care, vocational training, the Labour Fund, the Guaranteed Workers' Benefits Fund, social policy, innovation and R &amp; D activities, individual and collective labour law, EU funds And I could keep saying that. Therefore, the Council of Dialogue has a very ambitious plan to opinion and pass on good proposals to the rulers, together with politicians, together with the government and with Parliament, so that the laws that come out of parliament are not legal but documents that actually support the Polish economy, as well as Polish entrepreneurs and workers working in these companies. The Social Dialogue Council has so far adopted 14 resolutions, including 9 resolutions of an organisational nature and 5 resolutions of a substantive nature, which are the result of a compromise between the party of employees and the party of employers, resolutions implementing the substantive work plan. I want to tell you that the Social Dialogue Council is just getting organized. We had a great ambition to say this at the outset, and I hope that this will happen after the revision of the Social Dialogue Council Act, to become an institution like the institutions of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman. For now, let's call it that, in the department of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. But the Office of the Social Dialogue Council, which is based on Limanowskiego Street, is organized again, employees, director of the office are employed. These are really difficult times for us in terms of organisation, because the pace of work in Parliament is very high and nobody cares that the board office is organizing, we have to meet, we have to evaluate draft laws and pass these opinions to Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as these resolutions and positions are concerned, which we have adopted, for example, on the Presidential Act on personal income tax or on the Government's draft law, the Labour Code, the Government's draft law on public procurement, amendments to the Law on minimum wage and climate and energy policy, it can be said that this is already the success of the Social Dialogue Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not remember in the history of the Tripartite Commission that employers and trade unions, in union terms, should agree and adopt a common position on minimum wage. And now it has. It's always been decided by the government. Here we have adopted a common position on the minimum wage for work, i.e. 12 PLN. And this really is the success of this dialogue. I'd like to say The employers are here with us, too. That once the Council Presidency lasted an hour and were held before plenary meetings, today the bureau starts at 10.00 and lasts until 8.00 p.m. We sit, we talk because this is important to us, and as chairman of the Council, I look forward to reaching a compromise. In some cases we fail, but we leave these meetings with a clear conscience, saying that we failed, but we did everything to make it happen. Our next common position concerns climate policy, the so-called climate policy. Directive on CO2 emissions and emissions trading. That's the common position. For the first time we were able to sit with employers and with the government on such a very important issue for the Polish economy and prepare a common position. Next, public procurement law and so-called. Social clause. You were debating this case yesterday, and it also applies to in-house. In this case there is also a compromise with local authorities, with the social side. So that I thank you for yesterday's decisions. This is very important. not only because of the stimulation of the economy. It is also a matter of making use of these public contracts by entrepreneurs who comply with Polish law. After all, public procurement is a public means and it is a matter of getting these funds to companies, to entrepreneurs who comply with Polish law. So that these positions, which have already been adopted at the Presidency of the Social Dialogue Council, are for us, one can say, a success. In the framework of the Social Dialogue Council, 8 teams work: budget, remuneration and social benefits team, labour law team, economic policy and labour market team, social security team, social dialogue development team, European funds team, public services team and international problem team. These are teams that give momentum to the work of the Social Dialogue Council. These people are working on positions that are forwarded to the bureau, and the bureau is directing these documents, positions for plenary sessions. These teams have the most work to do. It is there that every draft law must be examined, proposals prepared and forwarded to the Bureau of the Social Dialogue Council, which the bureau shall transmit, if there is a compromise, a position at the plenary meeting of the Social Dialogue Council. Full personal compositions and scope of work of individual teams can be found in the report. During the reporting period, and in fact I would like to say that until yesterday, several dozen meetings were held at the Social Dialogue Council, where more than 1,000 500 people participated. These are the socialists who come from all over the country who have their job, but come to meetings of these teams to work together... and analyse government projects, parliamentary projects, projects that we receive from parliament, and also from the government. Eight Bureau meetings and five plenary meetings of the Social Dialogue Council were also held at that time. Yesterday was the fifth meeting of the Social Dialogue Council, attended by the President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda. We were just talking about the problems of the nurses' strike. But we, as the Council of Social Dialogue, want to solve problems systematically. So we were talking in general about the problems of raising salaries for all occupational groups in general health care. We're interested. Yesterday, Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł, who is a member of the Social Dialogue Council, also presented the information. So, as you can see, it's really all coming together, it's all working. And after yesterday's information and discussion, an intense discussion about the health situation, we don't just leave it in the protocol, we don't just act ad hoc. We're trying to learn from all of this. And I am convinced that yesterday's discussion at the RDS meeting will allow the Minister of Health to prepare a bill at an even faster pace to actually prevent this difficult situation and further protests in the healthcare sector. 'Cause today's nurses, tomorrow's more professional groups... And we, as the Social Dialogue Council, as representative trade unions, want to address these problems systematically. In addition to organisational issues, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Dialogue Council has very often discussed, as I have already said, changes in public procurement law. I'd like to stay here because we've spent a lot of time on this and set up an ad hoc public procurement team. As the council calls an ad hoc team, it means that the problem is very important to us. Currently, there are two ad hoc public procurement teams in the Social Dialogue Council, as well as an ad hoc panel on the draft law on National Tax Administration. There were customs protests yesterday before the Sejm. We are talking to Minister Shamacha, Minister Banas, there are meetings, there is another meeting tomorrow on the draft of the said law and certainly the Council of Social Dialogue... If this is the recommendation of the team and the bureau, we will adopt a common position at the Social Dialogue Council. I would like to say at this point that I am not going to talk about the details here, because the full, detailed statements are in the report on individual teams. It says how the teams worked, how many times they met, and how many other jobs they worked for. But I would like to pass on at least one number, say that during the reporting period, so short, as many as 123 pieces of legislation have been submitted to the Social Dialogue Council for an opinion. This shows the scale of work and shows how much dialogue is needed in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, trilateral dialogue is also a lower level, i.e. the Voivodeship Council for Social Dialogue. They include representatives of the local government, including the marshal and the persons he designates, representatives of representative trade union organisations, representative employers' organisations and government parties, i.e. the voivode and the persons he designates. All 16 WRDS were established, i.e. they are in 16 voivodships. The Regional Councils of Social Dialogue provide the Social Dialogue Council with numerous positions on issues that are important to regional communities and not only. concerning metallurgy, vocational training, waterways, health and many others. I would like to inform you here that the Social Dialogue Council, at the request of the Regional Councils for Social Dialogue, adopted a common position on amending the law and looking positively at the energy-intensive industry in our country, which, because there are such and not other energy tariffs, is less competitive towards certain economies of the European Union. I know that Parliamentary committee meetings are already taking place on this matter. This bill goes positive and that's what we're very happy about, and that's what local WRDS decisions and activities are. I try to participate personally in the work of WRDS, on the 13th I will be in Warmia-Mazury, on the 29th most likely will be WRDS in Zielona Góra. So that we try to talk about these problems not only here in Warsaw, but also in individual regions. Because if there's a problem in the region, he's gonna radiate all over our country, which is why we have to have this dialogue, and if there's a possibility, put the problem out. We cannot allow it to escalate and radiate across the country, because today we need social peace as much as possible, hence our conversations and dialogues. But today's problem with voivodship social dialogue councils is too modest to finance them. It is urgent to increase the resources needed for the development of the partners, the local forms of agreement. The funds should come from the state budget on the one hand, but on the other hand the voivodships must activate their activities. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have such a situation that the regional governments, in this case the marshals of voivodships, show very little activity. Our intention during the work on the bill was for social dialogue councils to be organized in voivodships by those who own there, i.e. marshals of voivodships. We took this competence away from the voivodeships, gave it to the marshals, but the marshals only expect that the money to organize WRDS will come from the state budget, i.e. the so-called. The task is commissioned. In almost any voivodship there is no initiative from the marshal to add to the functioning of the voivodship social dialogue councils, and it is in their interest that it is social peace in their voivodship, and social peace costs. Unfortunately, we have problems with that. Today only in one voivodship, Pomorskie, where the chairman of the voivodship council of social dialogue is a marshal, do not ask for money, and in other voivodships there is a problem. We have had, ladies and gentlemen, a meeting with Minister Shamacha and Minister Rafalska, and there is no possibility of any transfer of funds. We may need a quick revision of the bill, because we cannot allow the regional social dialogue councils to cease to function since August. There are fixed-term employees and there is simply no money, and this is due to the error of the previous voivodships, who, during the inter-ministerial consultations, sent a demand for funding, in the amount of 2013 and 2014, where actually the voivodship social dialogue committees did not function because the dialogue was suspended. That's why we have a big problem today, and I hope we can solve this problem. If, in fact, there was a need for an urgent change to this subject, to amend the Social Dialogue Council Act, I would like to ask the senators to take a kind approach and support this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to thank you very much, and also... The dialogue within the Social Dialogue Council is complemented by tripartite industry teams. This is the last level of social dialogue, very important. The industry level is the one where industry problems are solved Mine, energy, health, education, etc. Today there are trilateral teams in the energy, steel, social security of miners, sulphur processing and light industry. These are teams that have been in operation for years and which have been reactivated after the dialogue has resumed. Today, as the Council of Social Dialogue, we have the opportunity to set up a team at a given minister without his consent. At the request of interested parties, the President of the Social Dialogue Council invites the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy to set up a team and the Minister shall appoint a team at the Minister in question to deal with sectoral problems at the Ministry concerned. It was also important for the Social Dialogue Council to monitor this, although these teams are autonomous teams. We had a meeting with the representatives of all the teams, we proposed a joint draft of the rules, because all the teams have to function on some basis. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first six months of our life, we have created an efficient mechanism, an efficient tool called the Social Dialogue Council. The Social Dialogue Council Office was established, problem groups were set up, voivodship social dialogue councils were set up, a mechanism was put in place and a long-awaited dialogue was finally launched, the result of which is several important agreements. I believe there will be more. Topics for discussion will not be lacking, which is why it was so important to create an efficient instrument. But it's just an instrument. This dialogue is up to us. I want to tell you from this point forward as President of the Social Dialogue Council that after yesterday's debate in plenary of the Council I have some... well, maybe not a concern, but I am beginning to worry that this dialogue is entering some bad areas because we see that the current government is beginning to make the same mistakes that the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party has made. Government projects become parliamentary projects to avoid consultation in the Social Dialogue Council; we receive projects for consultation when they are already after first reading in Parliament. These things are unacceptable. That is why we spoke about this yesterday in plenary of the Social Dialogue Council. Every time I inform the Prime Minister in writing so that such, well, shortcomings I don't think it happened on purpose. No one is justified by the fact that the pace of work is fast. There is a consultation procedure in the Social Dialogue Council, there is a consultation procedure in trade union organisations, employers' organisations and this procedure needs to be followed. For example, such an important law for employers, as well as for trade unions as a law on the remuneration of directors of companies of the State Treasury In fact, we received this when it was already after the first reading in the Sejm committee. That's why we're going to respond to these things. We will intervene so as not to spoil this good climate in the Social Dialogue Council. As I said before, this bill is just a good instrument and a very good document, which we are not just bragging about in our country. Because European politicians, as well as European trade unions, accept it as positive and very innovative. Recently I stayed in Lithuania and had the opportunity to speak with the Deputy Prime Minister of Lithuania. Indeed, this law is very innovative and informative for them, because they also have problems with social dialogue in Lithuania. Finally, I would like to thank all those involved in the functioning of the Social Dialogue Council, especially the members of the Council Bureau present here. I would also like to thank all the members of the problem teams and the entire board. The secretary, the staff, the director of the council office. I thank you all because you are doing this from the heart so that the dialogue in our country works so that during this difficult period of reforms in particular sectors, as well as systemic reforms, we come to a common conclusion, a compromise, a consensus. And we have a very good tool for that. This bill will be reviewed in less than a year and a half. This is what we have written in the transitional provisions. I am convinced that all the errors and shortcomings that will arise within the two years of this law's operation, we will try to correct it by reviewing it. But our dream is for the Social Dialogue Council to become a separate institution and function for the benefit of our state and our society. And this to yourself, to all the employees, to the employers and to you. Thank you very much for the opportunity to present this report in the Higher Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President, for presenting such a comprehensive report. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr President a question? Senator Piotr Florek. [[Unreplaceable...]] Mr. Chairman, please come to the stand. [[Chairman of the Social Dialogue Council Piotr Duda: Good.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. In your guide letter, you wrote that the new formula, although created by means of the time-needed protest, is intended to help in the present and future to avoid strikes, social unrest and conflicts of interest. My question - If you can answer that question. How does this new formula help to avoid strike situations? Because we know that this is the situation that's going to happen and it's going to happen. You mentioned, among other things. Customs and nurses. How is this new formula supposed to change that? Second question. Mr President, is the location of the Voivodship Council of Social Dialogue in the Marshal of the Voivodship a good solution? Since this is the task of government administration, it is best that there are no tasks from government administration, only that the government carry out these tasks. It is commissioned to the Marshals of the voivodship and it is financed, as you mentioned, by means of a targeted grant, which means that certain money must be transferred for this purpose. So the question is, is this location at the marshal's is good. And the third question, short. You've already mentioned... I'm talking about the parliamentary projects. Because most of the billing projects that go to the Senate right now are parliamentary projects. Unfortunately, we also have a problem with the fact that we sometimes have an hour, two, three hours for the bill. And even so, the Sejm passed the law at 9:00 a.m., and we voted on it this afternoon. We also have a time problem to prepare for. Do these parliamentary projects also go to the Social Dialogue Council, or do they only happen in exceptional situations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u5	Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Dear Senators! I'll answer the question about the voivodships. We, as I said before, with good will and such a sense of mission, prepared this bill, have approached that... Well, the Voivodeships have already been, so let's try with the marshals who feel hosts in their voivodship. After all, the Marshals of the voivodships are the founding bodies of many enterprises in the voivodship and very important institutions such as schools, hospitals. And we were headed this way to share this power in the voivodship. But it turned out that politics was probably sneaking in there, too. Because I see that where the Marshal of the voivodship is the chairman of the voivodship council of social dialogue, there is no problem with financing, and where there is no problem, the problem begins. And, Mr. Senator, we're thinking about that... Yesterday I said in plenary that the next plenary session and the bureau are on 27 June, and until then we are going to consider whether, in fact, how we are going to seek a revision of the WRDS funding bill in the fast track this year, not to go back to what you are talking about, Senator. This is a task commissioned, and why should it be commissioned, let the voivode do it, let him organize a council of social dialogue on the spot in the voivodship. But besides, I'm gonna send a letter to all the marshals that I'm just sorry. I have already sent one letter asking for commitment and I have held a meeting with all WRDS presidents, asking for help, so that the marshals of their resources in the budget of the voivodship also supported this social dialogue. Unfortunately, this is what happens, not different. To answer your first question, on how to prevent this, I will say that we are trying, ladies and gentlemen, to make this institutional dialogue a representative dialogue. We want and strive for all trade unions and employers to be organised in the Social Dialogue Council. That's what we're trying to do. Today we see that some trade union organisations, some employers' organisations, which do not have representativeness, or have fewer than 300 000 members, see that the Council of Social Dialogue something means that it is needed, has influence. And I often receive letters as President of the Social Dialogue Council that they want to attend meetings, etc., etc. We speak briefly: you have this opportunity by joining the Solidarity Forum, OPZZ, the Trade Union Forum, as well as the Employers of the Republic of Poland, Leviathan, etc. I'm talking about employers. They have that possibility. Because the point is that there should actually be strong trade union organisations and employers in the Social Dialogue Council, so that they are not organisations that mean nothing that are not representative. Today, in order to sit on the Council of Social Dialogue, and trade unions, and employers must show in court that they have a representativeness of 300 000 members. If we pursue this, then in fact this representativeness will lead to the fact that we will not have customsmen protesting on the streets who do not have representativeness, policemen They have a relationship with the cops. Who left the Trade Union Forum, and when they were in it, they had representativeness. Of course there will be local strikes, regional and national strikes. But what happened during the last talks in Silesia, where the Coal Company, the government and the government... That's what he was looking after. WRDS in Silesia. Meetings were held under the chairmanship of the Provincial Council of Social Dialogue, the head of the Silesian-Dąbrowski Region, Dominika Colorza, and talked about it. Today there is a difficult situation also in Silesia, because there is an emergency room in the Dąbrów hospital. I also talked about this at the WRDS meeting, and for the second time this issue is raised in the Voivodeship Council for Social Dialogue. I'd like to give you some information. Yesterday, President Andrzej Radzikowski of OPZZ gave me this information. During the strike of nurses at the Children's Health Center, the chairman of the Provincial Social Dialogue Council in Mazowsze, a member of the OPZZ, contacted the nurses from the Children's Health Centre and asked for help, for mediation, made a proposal to present the matter at the meeting of the Provincial Social Dialogue Council in Warsaw in Mazowsze, but the nurses refused. That's why this situation you're talking about is very important to us. But if it weren't for the WRDS that work, and not the Social Dialogue Council, these protests would have been much more, I'm sure of it. For example, in the case of the retail tax bill, we went the other way, it was consulted. Because the government was talking to parties that actually came out of nowhere. There are representative employers who are part of the Social Dialogue Council, and this should be consulted here. If you start to consult institutions or employers at the factory level, then this consultation will never come out of this dialogue. So that we will try everything to make the WRDS so that the Social Dialogue Council is the institution that prevents protests, which doesn't mean that they won't be there, it's impossible for protests not to be there, and the last thing to do is strike, but it's often a decision of workers at the factory level, which we often have no influence on, because in our country there are many factory organizations that have representativeness only at the level of the plant, and as a Solidarity, OPZZ or the Trade Union Forum, we have absolutely no influence on them. And the third question, Mr. Senator? [[The third question was about the parliamentary projects...]] [[The bill...]] Uh-huh. I am in constant contact with Minister Henryk Kowalczyk on this matter and it is difficult for me to say which government projects are suddenly becoming parliamentary projects, because, as I said earlier, there are also such projects. We, as the Social Dialogue Council, spoke out about this yesterday, but I also wrote to the Prime Minister that the parliamentary proposal does not justify avoiding the consultation procedure. And that is what we will demand, because from the Social Dialogue Council Act, if the project is rejected, if the Council's position is rejected, then - Like I said. The government must state in writing why it rejects the position or proposal of trade unions. I hope it doesn't become a rule, or else we won't let that happen. Such mistakes have already been made. The Social Dialogue Council cannot become another information box, at which meetings the government will only inform about what it intends to do, because it will make no sense. Then again, as trade unions, we will come out, as Piotr Duda I will be the first to leave this Council of Social Dialogue, because it will not make any sense. So that I am convinced that at every level of negotiation and opinion of draft laws Whether it's the Sejm Committee, whether it's the RDS or it's the Senate The rules of the game should be respected and, in accordance with the Trade Union Consultation Act, in its Article. 19 we have 30 days to consult, in exceptional circumstances 20 days and these deadlines must be kept. We cannot consult ourselves on this, we must go down to the regions, to the members of the union, and it must go back, our experts must prepare an opinion so that it is very good in terms of substance as well as legal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to welcome Minister Elżbieta Rafalska, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Vice-President of the Social Dialogue Council at our meeting. Hello, Minister. The question is Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u8	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. And I think it's also: Buddy! I say that, although in the organs you preside over, my name is not given as a union member, notably one of the few in Parliament. You also effectively deny me the rights of Member States. And yet I respect my fellow president. And I'm getting to the questions. First question. In order for genuine dialogue to exist, there must be relatively high trade union potential, member trade union capacity, and employers' potential. How does a colleague evaluate the potential of trade unions and employers, and in particular employers, as a force capable of negotiating various, also difficult issues, not only at central but also at voivodeship level, which he mentioned, or even at the industrial, industrial level? Two. Did President Duda's visit yesterday at the bureau meeting supposedly... Yes? Or advice? [[Chairman of the Social Dialogue Council Piotr Duda: Council, Council, Council.]] Oh, dialogue boards, that's even better. Does this visit mean that the deadlock on his proposal will be broken, as well as other proposals for a shortened... age-reduced pension system? And the third question. Why so few relationships between unionists In particular, let me be honest with you, with the Solidarity and the Parliamentary and Senator Offices? What's the excuse?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u9	Thank you. And I ask the president to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u10	Thank you, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen! I answer a question concerning contacts with President Andrzej Duda of the Republic. We are in constant contact through the Minister, but I also personally contact the President. This visit to the Social Dialogue Council, which took place yesterday, was about a special event, which was the information of Minister Radziwiłł on the broader protection of health and workers in health care. We have agreed with the President that if he has time, if the matter is urgent enough, he will always try to attend meetings of the Social Dialogue Council. And that's normal for me. Yesterday, he arrived at the Social Dialogue Council meeting almost without announcement, listened to the speeches of the social side and the Minister, summarized them, you can say, and asked for dialogue Because that's what the president is for. We didn't talk about retirement yesterday. Although the trade union "Solidarity" takes the view that the project that was put forward by the President, the presidential project to reduce the retirement age is incomplete. As a trade union, we stand in the position that this proposal must be completed, and we will be as a trade union, and we have sought to convince Members at the meetings of the Sejm committees that this must be supplemented by the so-called "Solidarity." premium period 40 years' work, full contribution period for men, and 35 years' work, premium period for women. And from this as a trade union, we will not leave. This is our position. But the president and I didn't talk about it last night. As far as unionism is concerned, this problem is the problem of the whole European Union and of all countries, of all trade unionists in Europe, perhaps outside the Scandinavian Union. In Sweden, Norway, Denmark, where the union is actually at a high level. And maybe in Germany. On the other hand, we see that in France, where the union is at 10% And we see these big protests today... On the other hand, collective agreements, which are so important to us, i.e. those above-the-job and industrial agreements, are 90% in France. We also want to talk and it is the Prime Minister's agreement to set up a new codification committee, which is to write a new labour code, to describe individual and collective relations. But we no longer want a work code that will have, along with a comment, 25 cm thick, as it is now, and only the following articles are added. We want the Labour Code to be a fundamental element and, on the other hand, that such a positive labour code for many workers should be collective labour agreements: industrial, non-business and industrial, as well as supranational, because it is high time for corporations, companies that are in our country, to sign such transnational collective agreements. It's gonna make the bond grow. Because today we have this situation in the workplace, that regardless of whether you are in a trade union or not, an increase in the trade union will solve the collective agreement of the non-associated employee... But I will give you just one example, Canadian, where an employee, in order to benefit from a collective agreement, if he is not in a trade union and does not want to belong to it, must pay for the trade union so-called. the system fee. At the beginning of the 1990s, when making such a compromise on the Trade Union Act, there was a clear declaration: you are in the workplace, you have, in accordance with the Law, the secondment of activists to the trade union work, but you represent all employees. All of them, mark them. Today, some say we should leave the workplace. Okay, but we're only going to represent the union members because they pay us contributions, we have to watch these contributions three times to have on economists, on lawyers, on those who are preparing legal acts for us and negotiating on the other side with employers. It would, Mr. Senator, allow the union to be larger. In conclusion, I would like to say this: on the occasion of the Social Dialogue Council Act, we wanted to not force, but to encourage employers to make their representativeness equal to their systemic capacity. Only that, for this reason, there would not be a single BCC institution on the board of dialogue at the moment, because they would never be a party to collective agreements. But our ambition is to look at the Minister of Mocina here, and it is that the employers' side actually comes to the conclusion that collective agreements are a good thing. I would like to inform you that there is hope that soon not only will be negotiated, but also the first, so very important collective agreement of industry work for security and cleaning workers, which would be very important, because there is the greatest pathology. There's a will on the part of the employers. And then, in fact, if, on the occasion of public procurement, companies that have signed an industry collective agreement where employment conditions and minimum wage are defined, those employers in public contracts would not compete with labour costs, because they would have them at about the same level, but they would have margins and organisational costs. This is the direction where we want to go and where we want to convince employers. And since today's union is about 12% all employees, about 15% employees and employers approx. 2, 12, 12, 12, ...sorry, but true. Hence my earlier reply that we need to bring together those employers who are at this moment on the side, who only want occasionally, on the occasion of their problems, to speak out. We say no, come on, let's be strong. Because when you have a lot of representativeness, you can represent and say with pride: yes, we represent employees, a million, 2, 3, 4 million, and we represent employers, and that is very important to us. And visiting Senator's offices... Well, it's hard for me to say, maybe unionists from city level or region level don't have that kind of problem or use other offices... [[They come to me.]] Well, Stanislaw's coming... [[I have an office at the union.]] [[Voice from the room: Me too.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u11	Ladies and gentlemen... [[Chairman of the Social Dialogue Council Piotr Duda: There you go, so that's the answer.]] [[It's against the law.]] Ladies and gentlemen, everyone will be able to speak. [[What's against the bill?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Each of you will be able to speak at the right time. I would like to invite you to discuss this further. And now you will ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u12	Mr President, I would like to know whether the Social Dialogue Council has dealt with the issue of franchise and what is the position of the Council If it is. And the second question is, have you dealt with the matter around the Constitutional Court? As you know, its good functioning is the guarantee of civil rights and the safeguarding of many employee cases. In this context, I would also like to ask whether you have dealt with the matter ordered by the Court to amend and increase the tax-free amount. We are looking forward to the implementation of this ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal. What does the Social Dialogue Council say? What's your position?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. As far as the tax-free amount is concerned, we dealt with it as a council, as union organisations. We gave a positive opinion on the presidential project, of course we have our suggestions and comments for it. We believe that today the Polish state cannot afford to immediately give everyone an amount of 8 000 tax-free. Then we think we'd go in such a degressive direction. Today's job number one is this. Everyone who earns in our country at the minimum wage level, the lowest wage, should not pay income tax. This is a normal thing for us, because these people, earning a net of about PLN 1 thousand 200, are going to use other budget resources for supporting, paying rent, etc. Well, we don't have to find out. Anyway, we've reviewed this project. With regard to the franchise law We did not receive the law on franchise as the Council of Social Dialogue. As far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, let me be honest with you: as the Council of Social Dialogue, we do not want to engage in politics and we will not deal with it. I will say from myself what I have also said in the report, that because of the lack of functioning of the Social Dialogue Council for two years... My personal interventions, meetings with the European Union's Commissioners for Social Affairs have obviously not had any effect; apparently the Commissioners and the European Commission were not interested. However, I will also tell you something more interesting: that in 2012 or 2013 the trade union, either in solidarity, made a complaint to the European Commission against the Polish Government that it does not implement Community law concerning, for example, the implementation of matters relating to labour rights. It was, for example. for fixed-term contracts, on which some in Poland could work and several dozen years, and in fact until death. And it was only after 2 years that the European Commission opened proceedings against the Polish government, which resulted in a law already adopted in our parliament, concerning the fact that fixed-term contracts may be for a maximum period of 36 months. Each fixed-term contract must be consulted with the trade union organisation. If a worker is to be dismissed in advance, it must be justified and the termination procedure is the same as in contracts for an indefinite period, i.e. in accordance with the period worked by the worker. We were very concerned about why such important matters for workers, important for our society and for everyone, are so delayed in time, and cases concerning, at least, an excessive deficit, as it suddenly turned out... Here the European Commission is already intervening, now, and actually yesterday, and we have waited so long for what concerns social affairs. I'll explain right away. Look at the European Commission's position as Commissioner for Social Affairs. None, because this is how the European Commission deals with staff matters. And that's my answer. We as unionists believe that the representativeness of the Constitutional Tribunal should not be political representativeness; it is not that it should be 5 from the PiS, 3 from the Platform or other... For me, the representativeness of the Constitutional Tribunal is that there are judges of economic law, civil law, criminal law and labour law. The last such judge was Professor Liszcz, and now there is no good expert in labour law. Then it would be representative for us. And some judgments of the Court, in the case of retirement age, when it was actually 8 judges for, and 7 against, according to a separate opinion, showed that there was a lack of someone focused on labour law. So then, for me, the judges of the Court would be a representative group that could actually judge acts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. The question now wishes to be asked by Senator Richard Majer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I read the report you submitted with great interest. Although the period during which the Social Dialogue Council operates is short, the report is impressive. Congratulations on your organizational activity and your efficiency. Looks like it's going in the right direction. But, Mr President, I have drawn attention to what you have on the agenda. This year you will be engaged in the vocational training system in Poland. Here is the area shown, the review and recommendations. I know from the perspective of my own experience, because I was the head of the District Employment Council in Częstochowa, that vocational education is such a limping area. On the one hand, we have a shortage of professionals who should operate in the labour market because they are lacking, and on the other hand, these vocational schools are, as if, in addition to mainstream education. In Częstochowa we tried to change this trend many times, this situation and it did not work. Has the board of dialogue developed any ideas here? What are your thoughts on the need for vocational education in Poland and young people on the one hand and employers on the other? The idea is for them to receive well-prepared workers who will actually function efficiently in the market economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! While I was still vice-president of the Voivodship Employment Council in Katowice, at every meeting where we had an analysis of unemployment in the Silesian Voivodeship, it turned out that the highest degree of unemployment was among young people with a higher level of humanities education, and if we were already going so completely shortcuts, then in the direction: management and marketing. So this kind of education was a completely untraceable investment, it was an untraceable learning in a direction in which there was no employment and work. What's been going on for years now, because vocational education has been destroyed... We don't have to talk about it. It's starting to unwind today. It's heading in a positive direction. Employers also conclude that they need to invest in order to have a good worker. And today we have many such schools, where we have a patron, not only such, let's call it media, but also financial are large companies, large companies that prepare themselves a good employee. On the first day after graduating, he can come and be a full - time, young, and experienced employee, because he practiced there during the summer. Employers know for what time they will need a specific employee, a locksmith, a turner or anyone who has a very good profession. We discussed this at the Council Bureau and in plenary. Minister Zalewska, who is also a member of the Social Dialogue Council, will present her programme at the end of the month. I also know very well that the voivodship social dialogue councils are preparing their positions and they will emerge from what is happening in their regions. This will affect the RDS and we will be together with Minister Zalewska trying not to prevent this problem, but actually go in this direction, which is already said out loud that vocational education is needed because today there are no professionals for work. And it is good that employers sit in the Social Dialogue Council, who understand it perfectly and want to invest in schools, in professions that they will need in a few years. We also want a tripartite industry team to be established with Minister Zalewska. solving these problems. This does not mean that, if necessary, we will not be dealing with vocational education as a Council of Social Dialogue through our team. public services. Because this is a very important issue that needs to be started as soon as possible. After all, the first results will be in five years or four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u17	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the courtroom: Mrs. Marshal...]] In a moment, Mr. Senator, 'cause now you're gonna ask Senator Rulewski, and then you're gonna ask Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u18	I'm sorry, but I think this question is coming up for all of us in the Senate and I have to ask it. Namely, it is past the twenty-fiveth anniversary of the law on trade unions, notabene by the late. Lech Kaczyński. It was a good bill because she passed the test in the process of change. And let me remind you, it was a time when it was 90%. union in workplaces, especially in larger establishments, when there were no employers as organized as today and when, of course, private property was residual. That's why I'm asking. Mr President, pal, do you provide for the work of the Council on a law that would more secure membership, as you have said, to include employers as well, the security of the members of the union, but on the other hand would be an answer to the abuses that occur in the trade union movement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u19	Thank you. Mr. Senator is reading in our thoughts, members of the Social Dialogue Council and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. We work, we work hard. But this is also the aftermath of our complaint, the Solidarity and other trade unions, to the International Labour Organisation, to the Department of Freedom of Union. We have waited a long time for ILO representatives to come to our country and take... Because self-employed workers had no right to join trade unions. So, you could say, they felt discriminated against. After our intervention in Geneva, we are currently preparing a solution for the extension of the coalition. So self-employed workers will be able to get together, and there are a lot of them in our country. We are preparing this amendment in the Trade Union Act, and we are preparing a change concerning the so-called. representativeness. If you ask me today whether it's normal that there are 72 union organizations in the post office or in some other institution, then I'll say it's not pathology. There is, for example, a trade union of postmen and there is a trade union of postmen with a bag loaded up to 15 kg. We think it's pathology. And that's what I'm saying. Senator Rulewski knows that very well. For a variety of reasons. As a trade union, we fought. And we have this included in the August agreements. The so-called trade union pluralism, but what is referred to here, has nothing to do with trade union pluralism. This is often the reaction of union activists who lose elections and establish, for example, a trade union of frustrated presidents. Therefore, the second part of the above-mentioned trade union law goes towards the so-called trade union law. representativeness. We want, as I have said before, and we are consistent in this, so that the trade unions that are formed... so that the organization that is created at the level of the workplace is a representative organization at the level of the voivodship, the country, that is, it has an expert, financial and any other, i.e. it is representative, it is a member of the RDS. The representativeness of this organisation at the level of the workplace will be 7%, 7.5% or 8%. And the organisation only has to be representative of 15% . We believe that this is justified. Because it can't be that there's a trade union that brings together... [[Ten members.]] ...10 members at the workplace, which has 10,000 employees, for example. And that he has the same rights and obligations as a union that brings together 40% crews. This can't be right. If the establishment does not have 15% crews, this does not have the right to be representative, i.e. to negotiate collective labour agreements, labour regulations, social funds, etc. It's gotta look like this. It can't be that there's protection for a union activist because it's connected to 10 members. And it is not difficult to find 10 frustrated workers at the workplace now. Because problems are everywhere. And you can't use people like that. That's why this president has to... The Works Commission must strive to go to the workplace and say: yes, we represent 15% crews, minimum. Not 10 employees. And that's the direction we're going. We're at the end of the trade union bill. It is difficult for me to speak because this is an autonomous dialogue with regard to the law on employers' relationships. But there's a lot to be desired there too. Because it is now that an employer's union is established in a company or... maybe it does not arise, but joins Leviathan or the employers of Poland. And that's the decision only made by the head of the company. And the representativeness of employers is what counts for the entire crew. We, too, would like the entire crew to count for our representativeness. And the only thing that matters is the union. But we don't get into it. Employers need to see certain issues. And, as I believe, the most important thing for us today is that they come to the conclusion that their representativeness equals the ability of the system, to sit down and talk about the above-the-job, industry-related work arrangements. For one reason: because today in our country we need sustainable development, but development in different companies, in different industries is at different levels. Today we have a crisis in mining, but for example. Another industry is going up. Why is it impossible to sign a collective bargaining agreement there? Because the situation is much better there and there workers should have higher salaries. In a given industry, the minimum wage is 150%. minimum wage in the country. That's the right thing to do. We're not gonna write it down in the labour code. It's got to be written down in collective agreements. So, Mr. Senator, we have that in mind, and we're working hard on that. I am convinced that soon in Parliament, also in the Higher House of Parliament, and in committee, and in plenary you will be working on a new draft law on trade unions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Senator Czesław Ryszka's question, please. [[Card.]] [[You slipped the card wrong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u21	It's not good enough... Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. You've already mentioned the strike at the Children's Health Center. I have a specific question. Was there any involvement of the Social Dialogue Council in solving the problem that led to this strike, and why did this strike last so long?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This is a very sad and sad thing for us, because even if we wanted to show solidarity with the nurses when it comes to the strike at the Children's Health Center, we could not, the nurses themselves took it away from us, they were not solidarity with us. He also repents so-called. Minister Zembali's decree, which secretly negotiated and signed only with the union of nurses. It is possible to say that it is as if now Minister Radziwiłł had sat somewhere in the basement and negotiated with the trade union the increase only for the members of the trade union. That's what it looks like, graphically speaking. That's the kind of regulation that works... [[For all nurses, not members, and that's the difference.]] Yes, for everyone, well, for all the nurses, except, Senator... [[Don't interrupt.]] ...the trade union.Solidarity, OPZZ, because OPZZ was also excluded from this, represent all professional groups. We also bring together nurses, midwives, as well as OPZZ. Today, with these increases, we have no right to represent the members of our union. It's against the Constitution, the Trade Union Act, the Collective Dispute Resolution Act. The president of the Solidarity Centre or the Children's Health Centre, although also in the Solidarity Centre and in the OpZZ the nurses are associated, had no right to sit down and talk about increases for members of their unions, or nurses. We're not against the nurse's raises, we're out of it. This is unacceptable, that is the lack of equality between the parties in this dialogue. That's all this is about. Today's story is that they won't join the protest, but more professional groups are preparing. Some trade unions, which represent only one industry, whether in mining or in health care, have an easier task. In mining there are trade unions of bottom workers. They come into negotiations and only talk about members of their relationships. And we, as unionists, need to talk... [[Same thing on the railroad.]] Yeah, including the manager who's in connection with the cleaning staff, the nurses, the midwives, the conservator, all the employees who work at the hospital because they're members of our relationship. That's the only reason the controversy is. Yesterday, at the Social Dialogue Council, there was another turbulent discussion about why we are discriminated against and excluded from this regulation. We don't want this regulation to be cancelled, absolutely. We just want to be a party to it and be able to represent nurses who are associated in the Solidarity Group and in the OPZZ. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. I ask you to ask Senator Adam Gawada a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Minister! Dialogue is, of course, very important and extremely necessary in solving the problems that have been raised for many years. That's the question a colleague of mine asked, Senator Ryszka, actually giving me a heads-up... Well, indeed, Mr President, the protest that took place a year ago at the voivodeship hospital in Rybnik, with the participation of other groups of employees of this hospital, showed that this regulation was adopted ad hoc, quickly, without thinking and concerned only one professional group. As Mr President said here, this cannot be treated as a selective... This leads to unnecessary tensions in various professional groups, including those relating to mining, as you and I know very well. I am pleased that Mr President and Mr President strongly stress the very important role played by the Social Dialogue Council in building a better Poland. And I would like to stress here the great commitment of the President to solving the problems Not only in Silesia, but also in Poland as a whole, it concerns mostly workers' environments. I would like to stress, Mr President, that there are laws which, through a certain consensus and acceptance by the members of the Social Dialogue Council, will, I think, be accepted if they are adopted. I'm sorry for using such a colloquial term. It's such a short path. I'll pay attention, for example. to a law which prevented multi-million-dollar checks for former presidents of state-owned companies. After all, if we didn't do it quickly, and there were signals, also from the social side, that we should prevent unauthorized collection of large, multi-million-dollar briefings... Otherwise, it would simply be that those presidents who have committed serious irregularities in the running of companies would still take multimillion-dollar checks as a reward. I give this as an example that such solutions must also exist. Mr President, I would also like to ask you this question. They're headed for us. Also to my senator's office. On the part of trade unions and employers' unions, the question about some difficult problems that have not been resolved for many years. It goes on, among other things. on issues relating to international transport. I would like to ask that in the case of such subjects, which for many years have been first on the Tripartite Committee, and now on the Council... I'm asking you to speed up work on these issues. As far as possible, of course. And the question is: is there any way and green light for such draft laws and regulations on issues that have been unresolved for many years, and today the Social Dialogue Council could, I think, resolve them by consensus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! Now that you've given an example of the so-called law, Paratroopers, I'll tell you this, referring to this example of the Act, that haste is often not indicated only because mistakes are made... well, maybe not always mistakes, but some things are not noticed because of haste. The bill had to be processed quickly, which doesn't mean we didn't have the chance to lean on it as advice. And as we leaned on it, it turned out that the company organisations informed us that this law could have negative effects and could lead to workers leaving the workplaces within the framework of the so-called. PDO, i.e. voluntary schemes, will have to pay 70% tax. Do you remember the quick amendment? It was at our request, trade unions... [[And ours.]] Well, the Council of Dialogue... [[And opposition, and opposition.]] And this is a positive example of a quick response to what is happening. It is not Parliament's fault, it is not the fault of Members, Senators, it simply happens that the bill enters into force and suddenly it turns out that there are problems. I'll give you another example. The so-called law. banking tax. The article in the Banking Tax Act states that the tax is also to be paid by bank lending institutions, and such institutions are also labour establishments, which are provided by the Social Fund. housing loans interest-bearing. The Minister of Finance gave an interpretation in this case that they do not pay the companies in which the employee is remunerated for this loan. But it wasn't added, which is what happens when an employee retires, the employee gets fired, the employee quits as a PDO. There's a problem because he's no longer an employee. So, what, the company's gonna pay off the bank tax on this? Another intervention in the Ministry of Finance and luckily there was no amendment, just an interpretation. But these are the things we're talking about. Mr. Senator, on matters of widely understood transport... As I hear it, today I am referring to the conflict between us and the government, because the Government of Law and Justice is implementing the policy of the previous government concerning posted transport workers. There will be no agreement on solidarity. We believe that a worker posted to work abroad should receive the same minimum remuneration that is received in that country of the European Union. It is time to stop competing with other countries after 27 years. Today, entrepreneurs should raise their heads and already compete for organisational costs, not labour costs, and they should risk it. And that's what we stand for. And as for the problems you were talking about, Mr. Senator, there will always be a green light. If we actually receive this as a Social Dialogue Council, we will come to a consensus together and adopt the position of the Social Dialogue Council in these matters, but also in these matters the employers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u26	Thank you, Mr President. You're asking Senator Krystian Probie.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u27	Mr President, I fully share your efforts to make the issue of representativeness clear. I'd like to make a point that I know from my own experience, but I'll do it on a very general level. Well, there were two trade unions in a certain workplace, and both can be freely regarded as representative. Only that there were systematically problems, conflicts when agreeing with the employer, during the necessary consultations with trade unions. There could be no agreement between these unions and the employer. But after a while, there was a third relationship, which had no problems consulting, and agreed to the employer's decisions. And what did it turn out to be? These two representative associations could not find out what the number of this next relationship was, the third one, because it was secret/confidential, which involved the operation of this current trade union law. I will therefore support your efforts to ensure representativeness and transparency. We couldn't even find out who was part of this next relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u28	I do not want to hurt our employers' representatives, because we work very well together, the climate is very good and I am convinced that there are no such pseudo-employers as you are talking about in the Social Dialogue Council on the employers' side. Because it has often been so, Mr. Senator, Dear Sirs, that a trade union has been established - Solidarity or OPZZ, and the employer has wondered: "What is to be done here?'. Well, it's best to start your trade union, a white collar union. He was setting up his union to torpedoing everything. All you have to do is have 10 employees, so he said, "Your secretary, your accountant, your staff lady," and "the ten" went up. And in this case, it's going to have to be representative, which is 15%. crews. Then you can talk about all the things I mentioned earlier about the operation of the workplace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u29	Thank you. Would any of your senators like to ask you another question, Mr President? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u30	Thank you very much for listening, for the opportunity to present our report. We will really be grateful if... if there are any matters, there will be amendments and problems, we will certainly try to take advantage of your expertise, as well as to seek advice from the parliamentary offices, especially from Senator Jan Rulewski. Thank you very much. [[In mine, always 24 hours a day...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, please speak. [[Professor, we need to sum up, tell you what happened and what happened...]] Mr. Senator, please be quiet. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u32	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to raise a few points. First look into the past. I do not agree with the President's assessment that there has been no social dialogue in the previous term. Yes, he encountered large, insurmountable difficulties and was inefficient. About that, it's okay. [[Voice from the room: Come on...]] Mr. Senator, I'm very sorry, but I'd like to ask... Because I'm addressing the president, and you're interrupting. Can I do it now? [[Mr. Chairman is listening.]] I'll say it again. Mr President, I do not agree with your statement that there was no will to dialogue in the previous parliamentary term. [[It wasn't, it wasn't.]] If there was no such will, we would not have a Council of Social Dialogue. Well, there was a contradiction here. First you spoke about the lack of this will, and then you thanked the government Prime Minister Kopacz and Minister Kosiniak-Kamish that the dialogue resulted in the creation of the Social Dialogue Council. But this dialogue was not effective, as far as I can agree. It was not effective and this discussion often did not lead to an agreement. I am not criticizing the attitude of trade unions here because it has led to the modernisation of this idea of dialogue. I think that's what happened, and that's the truth. So it's not about accusing each other, but it's about looking for the best formula. That's what happened, we've all witnessed it, we've expressed joy. I also remember, Mr President, this is a nice meeting here in the Senate when we passed this bill. I know the role played in this process, today representing employers, Mr Jacek Męcin, and he also deserves to be thanked. Now it's about the present. Poland has never been as divided as it is today. We've never needed a dialogue as much as we do now. [[On the street right now.]] If there are such protests, if strikes start, then there is also a great challenge for the Social Dialogue Council to be this place of understanding. In the meantime, I have the impression that it is not as good as the chairman of the Council was trying to present. Only in the second part of the speech, when we had to talk about concrete things, did this dialogue turn out to be lame today. We are witnesses to this in Parliament. Because what is the purpose of the fact that the majority, the vast majority of the contributions that come to us, are the ones that pass through the Parliament, but at the initiative of the government, the phase of public consultation? Why is that? To avoid social dialogue so as not to have full public consultation. And this is the reality that we are witnessing in Parliament. We sometimes try to make up for it, praise the presidents, that they invite guests, that here is the opportunity to speak. But it's too late. It's too late. And then the laws are adopted here, and I agree with the president. Full of flaws. And if this dialogue had been when it should have been, and if it had been long enough, wide enough, giving us a chance to think and speak, then these laws would have been much better. Social dialogue in Poland limps, is social division, and this is not progress, but regression. [[Oh, man.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It also boils down that the government does not find funds for the functioning of voivodship social dialogue councils. If he's so much in favour of dialogue, that shouldn't be the case. There could be a turbulent discussion here and an absolutely amazing money that is found on various projects that shock the public, while there is no money for the functioning of social dialogue councils, which is the task of the government. There may have been errors in the calculations somewhere, but there is also something like that, Mr President, like the general reserve. We created it in the budget for such unforeseen situations. Well, for what, but for that, the general reserve money should be enough, there's a lot more, so there's no problem, there shouldn't be a problem with that. Unless there is evil will and you do not want to finance this task. The attempt to shift these costs to voivodship authorities will certainly not prove effective, because local governments cannot really finance the tasks commissioned. And you can't get them to break the law. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about the future, Mr President. I'll never say it again. We didn't need a dialogue like this. And it will depend on the practice whether the Social Dialogue Council wishes to strongly urge what should be done in the interests of Poles. And this is a question of the franchise, the amount of tax-free, retirement age and many, many other issues that the Social Dialogue Council knows about, but the position of the Council and of the President, the position expressed loudly, decisively, was not heard. Therefore, I wish the President and the Council to stand up to the task and indeed be able to reach an agreement. And may in this madness, which is our participation and which we see in the form of deepening divisions, the Social Dialogue Council is a real foundation of reflection and consensus. This is what is missing in Poland. May the Council of Social Dialogue be such a place. [[Thank you for your good wishes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u33	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Members of the Council! Minister! It was a heartwarming report presented to the High House, because it means that there is a chance for genuine dialogue in Poland... [[Oh, Jackie, finally.]] ...for this dialogue, which was launched very early, because already in 1989, in which the union took over Not without many obstacles, not without many moral inhibitions Responsible for the country. But it was specifically launched as early as 1992, when it came from this very social state. I will not say: the Land's Tripartite Commission, today transformed or evolving further, higher, to the form of the Council of Social Dialogue. During this time there was a wave of dialogue throughout Poland with different forms. There was much regret, there was protest, there was escape, there was persecution. And there are persecutions of union members. Maybe this can be attributed to a low absenteeism. Dialogue is needed in Poland as... [[A voice from the hall: Like a canyon of jam.]] ...Jew's canyon... [[Voice from the hall: Inversely, like ru cani...]] On the other hand, like canine jam... like canine moisture. Thank you for the correction. It is needed because we face many challenges. Mr. President, I think it's due to time. He didn't say about external challenges. This global village invades Poland from different directions - different interests, the ones on the table and under the table... In trade union life, there was not one and a half employers, as in 1989. I say one-and-a-half, because one state and a little cooperative, some peasants. Only, as I have counted, 18 employers have already appeared, with whom we need to talk, negotiate, determine. At the same time, these matters are governed by several laws in Poland, including the above mentioned and discussed law on trade unions by the sacred memory of Lech Kaczyński. She passed the exam, as I stress. It was necessary in such a format, because then, as I say, the union was not only a trade union, it was also a social movement, it was a guarantee of change in the country and it represented the majority of crews. In addition, the Labour Code was also amended, although not entirely, to include a very important need, here also discussed; this change was intended to maintain the apoliticality of the relationship, including the collective agreements and employee participation law. There is a significant gap here today. The view of external, economic and social affairs, the look on the side of the employee's pocket and the employer's income indicates that after a period of falling in love with liberalism and even extreme... Many of the countries we have copied today are places of stability and social growth. I am talking about the Scandinavian countries, I am talking about Germany, I am talking about Austria and many other European countries. I'm also thinking about the country where I've been, about Japan. There is a difficult dialogue everywhere and there is a common success for the economy and society as a whole. However, in order for the dialogue to produce results, he must be unlying and not subject to political influence. It must take account of the welfare of the whole of Poland, because this is the essence of the Social Dialogue Council, while partial interests, industry interests, should be considered at the level appropriate for this forum. Your speech, Mr President, points to a strategy. She's, I guess, okay, but as a union man, I need to see some shortcomings. An important lack concerns what is the failure of every worker, i.e. unemployment. Nothing has been mentioned about how the Social Dialogue Council is most appropriate in these cases It intends to deal with unemployment. Although it is decreasing, but it is mainly decreasing statistically, due to economic emigration, due to its freezing, e.g. in the countryside where the payment system freezes unemployment. It is also decreasing because of the shadow economy or hidden unemployment, so to speak, lying unemployment. It is also decreasing because it was sent, under economic influence, 1 million 500 000 people for forced economic activity. Fortunately, this Europe, which some here speak ill of, has restored to these people their proper position, including dignity. There is indeed the merit of the trade unions, especially the Solidarity. And the judgments of the Strasbourg Court, I hope, restore this balance. That's the kind of white area I'd count on. And I would recommend the Social Dialogue Council's attention to the disappearance of social labour inspection, this important involvement not only of trade unions, but... When it comes to shaping their working conditions... This is a dialogue and this is also an autonomy of action. This is a civil democracy. I think there's another gray area... There is no president of the NSZZ.Solidarity. More and more peasants getting rich Okay, okay, okay, okay, ..and employs employees. There is a very large gray employment zone, including guests from abroad. It's a good thing the Senate passed a bill yesterday that's trying to address this problem. The State has no organs to control. As you know, the National Labour Inspection is not possible to control and monitor working conditions in the countryside. And thousands, hundreds of thousands of people are working there. And you can't go past these things indifferently. I think it's still there, performing... I used the phrase "untruthful dialogue." Unlied dialogue is one that tries to break away from barriers, such as the unfriendly existence of trade unions. I think that the mining dialogue is not quite real. Poland must take up the energy challenge. Poland must take into account what other countries already, perhaps in the form of a dialogue, or without, say that it is impossible to bury itself deeper and deeper, at an ever higher price, in technologies which are of the 19th century or even the 18th century. I think we need to give the miners a chance to get out of this deadlock. It is also necessary to give breath to the Polish economy to be competitive. Where you use a lot of energy... And average energy consumption is 10%. Trade unions have occurred I'm talking about Bydgoszcz here, about my city, said that Polish chemistry, which was a glory, dies or is strangled by high energy prices, including carbon. Similarly, I think Mr NSZZ RI once reported that our agriculture will have further opportunities for development if energy is cheaper. So here is a very difficult, multi-level, multi-factorial decision. But that's the subject. That's the kind of dialogue. This is something that we politicians, I'm afraid, are not able to solve. But I believe that this is the task that stands before the Social Dialogue Council. Therefore, I wish the Social Dialogue Council, in particular employers and trade unions, to solve such and other difficult problems, because... Government has always the will to resolve these problems. And that's the kind of wish I'd like to end. That's the spirit. Goodbye. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u35	Thank you very much. [[Jack, I'm not going to attack you today.]] Thank you, Senator. And now you will speak to Senator Stanisław Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Dear Members of the Social Dialogue Council! I am personally very pleased that the President has reported today on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council. Because this is what we requested, because there was no mention in the bill that the Social Dialogue Council would report before the Senate. I really remember. 'Cause I'm a senator because of NSZZ 'Solidarity, because of my relationship All actions of the predecessors. I am delighted that some of the gentlemen who have left, especially Senator Augustine, have enlightened the Holy Spirit and speak quite differently today. What was this dialogue about before? He relied on the fact that when there was a bill on retirement age, when I went out and begged that the chairman of the NSZZ.Solidarity, Mr Piotr Duda, had the opportunity to express himself when there were huge protests before the Sejm and the Senate, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz and the State voted that the vote of the chairman of the NSZZ Solidarity was being received, a union that had overthrown the totalitarian system that introduced social dialogue in Poland. Dear Member States, this is what this dialogue was all about. We forget that some people have amnesia, which was the reason for the social dialogue law. I was the Senator Rapporteur. The cause was the massive impasse of the Tripartite Commission, because in fact for almost two years there have been no talks. And that was the main reason, my dear fellow Members, that a draft law on the Council of Social Dialogue was created. That was really the main reason. I listened very carefully to the President's speech, and I am very happy indeed. Because as a trade unionist and as a superradical trade unionist, a hawk who actually fought for free and independent Poland and workers' rights at the time of the commune, I am really glad that there will finally be a law on representative relationships. From the very beginning, I have always said that this cannot be the case, that I will resist the example of PKP, which counts...Solidarity had more than 100 thousand members, and as mushrooms after the rain formed compounds that had 10 members, especially associations of administrative workers, and had the same right to vote as this powerful relationship. Dear Senators, do not be surprised because the administration manipulated because it said: set a common position, because if you do not agree on a common position, we make decisions. And that's the kind of thing that actually happened. It's about time there was a representative union bill. Every government was just afraid of it. Because he said, "Ah, there'll be strikes when there's a representative union bill." Who was supposed to strike? Administration? What, would they put pens in ink and not write? Because, in most cases, it is like the President said that there are typically trade unions, such as train drivers, on-call and attitude unions. Dear Lords, referring to the situation at the Children's Health Center, let me say this: I, with heartache, accepted the fact that someone was leaving the children's beds. The fact that someone walks away from a child's bed when the child is terminally ill is really a huge tragedy for the parents, because the child is the greatest treasure. I speak out loud and suggest that these nurses go to the south of Poland and ask the nurses there what money they work for, what money the nurses work for in the south. And really, as Mr President said, there is not only a trade union, because there are also nurses in Solidarity. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Senator Augustine said no dialogue today. Today is a great dialogue. Under the rule of Prime Minister Beata Szydło and under the rule of Minister Rafalska. What was the consultation, what was the dialogue when the 500+ programme was introduced? Country The PO and PSL were opposed to bringing it in. Dear Member State, is there no dialogue when it comes to reducing the retirement age? There will be a dialogue, because NSZZ is saying that there should be a solution with 40 years of work, regardless of age. Is dialogue, gentlemen... And it's yours, so to speak, political... those who support you. For example, Professor Stępień, who teaches the editor of dialogue on Polish television, saying: when you come to college, what you have towards me... Is that what dialogue is? How can we talk about the Constitutional Court today? And why were you attacking the dialogue on June 25th? Because you wanted five judges. Three judges had to be introduced, we would have given two and there would actually be a real dialogue. I believe that Professor Rzepliński... You should, Mr President, take him to the Social Dialogue Council and teach him what dialogue is, because it has been a dictatorship for eight years now. There's talk of laws that there's no dialogue on them. And there's a full dialogue. As Head of the Infrastructure Committee, I always invite all parties, all relationships come and there is a real dialogue. In fact, Dear Friend John, well... In fact, the trade unionists come to my office, the advisor is the legend of Solidarity, the man who fought for Poland as well as you, Mr Andrzej Szkaradek. But if he's still going to Poland that Janek went to liberals, then... Sorry, Janek. [[To the liberals? To an honest party.]] I'm sorry, honest party... You say fair, and I think the fairest part is law and justice. I also watched a TV show where you performed and performed people from the first Solidarity. And I think you heard what they told you. That you forgot these people and you forgot them. As PO and PSL about John Paul's words II. Because solidarity is a personal relationship, not a left-wing relationship. And praise is given to the President of the Social Dialogue Council, that he defends the subjectivity of the family and the subjectivity of man. Where was the work code for your government? Where were the employment contracts for an indefinite period? There were wild deals, man was treated as a thing, not as an entity. And like this Mr. President, this Prime Minister Beata Szydło, this Minister is really doing everything to make a man subject, not a thing, it is immediately going to attack the President, the government, because there is no democracy, the constitution is unobserved... The Constitution was respected at the time, when there was no dialogue? Dialogue, Dear Friend Senator, was at the cemetery at the time, the dialogue was at the airport where the airport was dragged and when Amber Gold's scandals were. Was that where the dialogue was then?! It's now, thanks to this bill, there's a real dialogue. [[At Minister Lipc's...]] Dear Mr. and Mrs. Senator, at that time, when some supported the Front of Unity of the Nation, they supported the PRON, they supported the WRON, they fought for full dialogue in Poland. Some of you really have no shame! If I had a story like some senators, I wouldn't go out on the stand and say... Because to me, Poland is Polish... [[Applause]] And that's why I say, "Man is human." And the worst part is with those banners in the wind: today it's in the PO... Sorry, first he was in the PZPR, then in the SLD, he escaped to the PO, and for career, he's moving to the PSL. And this is your dialogue. Yes, this is your dialogue. [[Like Mr Piotrowicz...]] Please? Ladies and gentlemen... I think you should have a conscience check, too, Senator. And I, speaking to Janek... Janek, really the doors for the people of Solidarity in the Solidarity are open, they're really open. I'm still part of this relationship today because I'm paying contributions. [[And the others don't belong?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry... You complain if you don't have a relationship dialogue. And if at one point you lost the dialogue, who's the grudge? Alone... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done, yeah. To me, when I watched you on TV, when you were abused in Bydgoszcz, you were a huge authority. You were a huge authority. Now in some of your speeches... I'd really be thinking about some things because he was... You replaced the sleep here. Lech Kaczyński and praise you for that. Your president, who supports your group, Mr Lech Wałęsa, said he'd let the thieves in his socks go and let the workers go because the biggest cost of reform after the revolution was borne by the workers. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u37	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. [[Voice from the room: Relax.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u38	I'm calm. Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! Dear guests! To Mr Rooster: Mr Senator, say hello to Mr Piotowicz for me, because I also had an opportunity with him once... [[Senator Augustine, please.]] If that's what we say... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We can give many examples on the one hand and on the other. I think this platform is meant to have a constructive dialogue. I would first of all like to thank the President. You have made a very good report. Mr President's attitude is very good, and I bring it up after listening to your statements that came out of that bleacher. I didn't ask the president without a kozera about the location of the Regional Council for Social Dialogue with the Marshal and about the funds, as the President mentioned... Why did I ask that? Because for 8 years I was the chairman of the social dialogue committee in my voivodship, in the Wielkopolska voivodship. For eight years I have been president and I have never had any financial problem, I have never had any problem with organising a meeting of the dialogue committee, because it is a government task. So I think it was well-placed. Probably looking for a new solution in a different way, but I think the reasons were different. I think that Mr President said today, too, that maybe we should get back to what was going on, because it wasn't wrong at all. Well, some solutions, as it turns out, are not good at all. There's been a lot of talk here. I would like to say that there are really many needs. The retirement age is a very important issue that we will certainly be discussing for a long, long time; returning to the previous age is a certain cost. Mr President has already talked about the amount of tax free, it will be spread over time, because it is also a big cost. Ladies and gentlemen, the many laws we make here cost money. Well, for example, the windmill bill we discussed here, which we will be voting on today. Let's see what your attitude is. The 500+ project is certainly an important project, a very important issue. And Minister Ziobro says on TV that he's transferring his money. Then why did we give it to him? You should have wondered if all of these people really needed the money. You might also wonder if it is quite correct and good that we give this money to everyone, because it turns out that it is used by people who would be able to do without it. The next program, which will probably be mentioned and which we have heard a lot about recently, is the apartment +. Of course it's very important for everyone to have an apartment so that the rental of an apartment is combined with the possibility of buying out over time, and for a long time we have said that in this direction of course we should go. Except the Prime Minister said it would be costless for the budget, that the budget would cost nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, we have market prices. There are no miracles, nothing can be done without money. This program is gonna be expensive, so there's gonna be another problem. Now it's a matter of no Constitutional Court. I'm just gonna make a joke: I heard somebody say that because you have to change the pension system, you shouldn't pay pensions to pensioners over the 80s. Well, if we had adopted such a law, the Constitutional Tribunal would have to decide whether it was constitutional or not. The Court, in its order in accordance with the law, would certainly have dealt with the case in three to four years' time. And you say it's such a great bill. Therefore, the question arises as to whether these retired people would not have died until they were resolved... I set a drastic example, but such examples could be multiplied. The absence of the Constitutional Tribunal is a serious problem, because unfortunately, the laws that are waiting in line at the moment will be dealt with at a certain time. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the laws are not always the most important, climate is important, dialogue is important. Today we're as divided as we can't remember when. There hasn't been a division since 1989. So I'm sure the dialogue committee will have a lot, a lot of work to do. And finally... the unemployment rate was mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you have to remember. About the workers. Trash deals in some way... as they were abused, we all realize that. The important thing is to work on a job contract, because when I go to the bank to take a loan, they ask me... This applies to young people; this applies to housing. These are things... It is good that unemployment is falling, it is the lowest, as I remember, probably since 2005 or 2006. In 2006, when most people from Poland left, when 2 million 300 people were abroad, remember, this was the time. It is not that everyone is leaving now, but if we make such laws and so conflict, I can tell you that young people, educated people, who know languages that are doing well, they will not stay in this country. They're leaving. That's what I'm hearing right now. So it's up to us, our climate, our dialogue, whether we're gonna deal with these problems together. But for that you need concessions from 2 sides, which unfortunately you can't see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u39	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Chróścikowski now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! We are indeed at an important point today, and we are taking part in the report by the President of the Social Dialogue Council, whom we have been able to hear. We have material, print number 167, very plentiful, 81 pages, interesting literature, interesting reports, information on who participates in these councils, how many members, what social organizations and employers' organizations, the government. And we also have a list of the regional committees. Of course, Mr President, I congratulate you for chairing this team, that you can speak boldly and represent the position of the union at the moment, because in this particular Presidency, you can say, you chair, there will be a change later. But this is an important event for trade unionists, that they can finally have full rights to represent and speak in the Council of dialogue with a full voice, and not, as it used to be, that the government, only the government and employers, and the trade unionists did not count in this arrangement. And if you don't, there's been a lot of disputes and no decisions, and the government has always made decisions. I hope that now this dialogue that we are talking about will be a real dialogue, and that is what you are already showing at this stage. Of course, you also show the elements that we as unionists 'Cause I represent the union, too, 'Solidarity', 'but individual farmers, 'we see that with these rapid changes that we are expecting right now and we want them to be introduced, we don't keep up.' We do not keep up with the opinion of legislation, even if we wanted to, we do not keep up, because here in Parliament we often have trouble keeping up, but everyone wants a quick change. Everyone wants to do everything quickly. They demand everything from Law and Justice to complete the entire program within six months, which is written for at least four years, and they demand that it be realized by now. So I think we need to moderate with this demand, with questions about why we have not yet completed all the programming tasks, the tasks that the Law and Justice have entered into the electoral program, why not... Well, if we demand and demand, we as unionists will certainly not have time to consult, and as parliamentarians we will often have no time to even think about it. Let us slow down a little bit, let us not demand everything, let us not say that the entire programme of Law and Justice is to be implemented immediately, within six months or a year, when it is spread over at least four years. I am glad that this dialogue is at the moment, I am only somewhat saddened, as a representative of the trade union of individual farmers, because when adopting this law I asked for the so-called. It's an agricultural dialogue. And there were proposals, even during the strike here in the green town, that we wanted a trilateral agricultural dialogue committee. She was almost in the Sejm, but unfortunately she didn't go through because she didn't respond to the union. I now expect the government and agricultural organisations and unions to engage in this dialogue together, and I want this dialogue to be based on the fact that it is not so that the Minister will set up a dialogue council, because the Minister needs an agricultural dialogue council... I'm not defending him to draw up his counsel for dialogue, because it can be done by any department minister. We have also pointed out that such a board of dialogue does not necessarily have to be as broad as the one appointed by your President, but can be appointed by the Prime Minister and deal with not only one resort, because agriculture is not just one resort. We are rural residents, but we also use infrastructure, we use all the assets that citizens can benefit from, health services, education in terms of finance, economics, economy, we are equally important actors here and we expect such a trilateral agricultural dialogue to be established. I asked the president whether the dialogue board envisaged setting up a team to deal with agriculture. He says he doesn't, because he doesn't have the will. That is why I have a request to the government and to those who would like us to draw up such advice so that agricultural dialogue is also conducted. Let us not hide, Poland really has a huge impact on exports, has a huge impact on the economy, our agriculture is a really great department to take care of. Energy is important, other departments are important, but agriculture is also important. I believe that agricultural dialogue is also needed, which is why I appeal from this point of view, when speaking about this board of dialogue, that there is also a need for an agricultural dialogue council, not only a resort but a non-ministerial one. Representative trade unions are also needed. I hope that... President Piotr Duda mentioned here the Law on Relationships, about the need to create a law on representative relationships, and it is also needed in the case of agricultural unions. It is not enough that a few gentlemen, some farmers gather, write down that there are 10 of them, represent a national relationship and already say that this is representativeness. And then one farmer or two comes to you from every relationship, saying that they represent all the agriculture, and they speak. Appointment by the Minister for Agriculture I'm not gonna comment on that anymore. Around 90 representatives to the board of dialogue, where is 1 representative of the association RI... I don't know, I just don't get it, but it's the minister's business, he can set up a body like this in his order. And today in this House, I am very clear: the Social Dialogue Council is important, but there should also be a trilateral council, as I call it, an agricultural dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u41	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests! I do not hide the fact that I was inspired to speak by Senator Rooster, the union man, the senator with his fiery speech forced me to make this speech. I read today's agenda once again and the 15th item was the report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the period from 22 October 2015 to 31 March 2016. This speech, and I had the opportunity to listen to it in its entirety, was not really a speech to bring to this discussion a lot of important things, aspects, ideas, projects for the future that we should discuss today in this Chamber, but tried to share and reminisce about what was in the past. Things have been different in the past, Mr. Senator. In the past, the nurses stood before the Chancellery of the Prime Minister and were not allowed into this building, and no one wanted to talk to them. And we can remind each other so much, everyone will give an interesting example, everyone will say in which parties under whose governments as it was, and always something bad has happened. But the essence of this speech, which we have heard today, in my opinion, was to show what has been happening in our country so far and what should happen, also in this House, so that people who work hard can feel better in Poland, feel better, feel good in their own workplace. I wasn't in the middle of this discussion... Although at the very beginning it appeared. Senator Florek asked the president what he was really going to do or what he was going to do to change the situation not only of trade unions but of people at all. That was actually the most important question in today's discussion. And that is exactly what we lack today in this Chamber, which is: what do we really need to do to increase the safety of work in workplaces? Because when we look at statistics, we see that Poland is actually in a disgusting place, the possibility of an accident or the number of accidents in workplaces in Poland is really very large. But we don't talk about it because we fight and argue, we point out something, and we try to tell each other who's worse because he signed up for one of the parties. And that is not necessary at all, because what we have to say, what we can do, what we can vote for, what we can contribute and how we can question the trade union leaders today is important. Because they represent their environments here today, they actually have a good overview to that extent. And we're not asking them what we should change in the laws, we're not really asking what's going on in the workplace today, what's the idea of trade unions today? or all of us on how to help people work in changing conditions. Because the world is changing around us. See, ladies and gentlemen, how few such traditional, large workplaces are created, and how many people today work in very small places, in such few. Can we protect them today? Do we have any idea how to protect them? How can we protect even those people who collide with new technologies? Because today you don't have to have 1,000 500 people. Today, 3 or 4 people are enough. But do they have decent working conditions? Do those people who work with these new ideas have secured what other workers have, employed in large workplaces, where trade unions are? We didn't talk about this in this room today, we didn't talk about it today. What really is to make the strength of trade unions or workers today strong enough that no matter what legitimacy, party card, it has a government, because when it happens wrong, it is the minister, the prime minister, the deputy prime minister who takes these people to work and talks to them? That's the problem. And often, over the years, it can be seen that those who have and hold power are hiding in offices, not just government offices, because also parliamentary ones, and the opposition, which is in a different situation, is very eager to go out into the street, to people, and talk to them. And we can give examples of that, too. So how can the chairman of a trade union or a group of people who feel unfairly treated today reach those who make decisions? This, Mr. Senator, we didn't move in this room today. And that's sad. And this report presented should be a reason for such discussions. Whether the report we have heard today or rather Because the report is written, this speech that we have heard here today, in this Chamber, should not contain statistics? Of course, in the written report, please. We can always pick up the statistics one way or the other. Mr President said that the bureau sometimes works until 8 p.m. We used to work until 5:00 a.m. These are statistics, too. But what's the most important thing here? So that the work that we do here will result from what decisions we make here. Or in general: to be written such a law So that everyone who is employed in Poland today has a sense of decent pay, safe work, so that he is not humiliated, that he may be promoted, that regardless of what political views he has, the worldview to which he belongs, he may be treated equally with others. And that's what we should be looking out for today. I would also like to address the President. You said a lot in your speech today, but I'd like to ask you for one thing. Well, the Social Dialogue Council is actually a lot of people, a lot of trade unions, and you are actually the leader of this group of people today, especially trade unions, so please... You are, of course, also the chairman of the "Solidarity," we remember that. But there is also an OPZZ in the Council, and there is also a Trade Union Forum. And please, if you're here. And I'm sure you'll be there many times. And at meetings like today, if you're here in the Senate, and you're performing, please remember that you represent the Solidarity, the OPZZ, the Trade Union Forum and many other organizations. It's not just solidarity. This is very important. [[After all, Mr President spoke of this and he respected...]] [[Chairman of the Social Dialogue Council Piotr Duda: I told you...]] That's right, you mentioned the president, but I'm asking you to make it more... I got it. [[Chairman of the Council of Social Dialogue Piotr Duda: I represent not only Solvency, but also OPZZ.]] Okay. I caught it, and that's my suggestion. Mr. Senator, thank you for your inspiration. Mr. Marshal, thank you for your vote. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u43	Thank you, too, Senator. I'll announce a recess in a moment, but before you do, the senator will read the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u44	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The meeting of the Health Commission on the review of the Law amending the Law on the Law on the Information System in Health and certain other laws Meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications for the Law amending the Law Print number 174 will take place immediately after the adjournment in room 176 has been announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u45	Thank you very much. We're adjourned until 12:00. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 26 to 12 minutes 00]] I'm reopening the session. I'd like to inform you that the break is extended until 12.30. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 00 to 12 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u46	I'm reopening the session. High Izbo! I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: a law amending the Act amending the Law on the Information System in Health and some other laws and consider it as item 17 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We return to agenda item 16: Report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the period from 22 October 2015 to 31 March 2016. Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Gazwada.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! Invited guests! Members of the Social Dialogue Council! Dialogue is needed. Dialogue really today, when this word falls here, from this place, from the mouth of the current opposition, people who have recently participated in the Polish rule are gaining quite a strange significance. Because, in fact, many of the issues that need to be resolved today, I think, or rather am deeply convinced of it, precisely through dialogue and some openness, provokes us to discuss why we are currently dealing with a situation in which such serious protests are being directed towards us, towards the current government, towards the President, who really is proposing to solve problems in an open and transparent way. And this situation, which Mr President said today, that after many years of waiting for a new construction, not only in solving labour problems, but also at the interface between the employer, all state institutions and employees... This calls for us to approach with greater understanding and openness in the future all the problems that I think will be solved through dialogue, which the Social Dialogue Council, including through its delegations, will solve in the various voivodships. And as Senator Rulewski said, it is difficult to agree with the situation in which, if we are talking about energy, mines resemble those of the 18th century or the 19th century today. Well, that's a curiosity thing. Of course, in energy and raw materials policy today we put emphasis on energy security to ensure the conditions for energy security, which, after all, is at the heart of the security of the whole country. This aspect should also be resolved through social dialogue. Because the future of our country and its security are largely dependent on it. I do not have to convince the President, who knows all the very serious problems of Silesia, including the largest raw materials companies, mining companies... And I think that these achievements that we have with us today, which the President mentioned and presented in the report, are also proof that the Social Dialogue Council is really doing its job today. And that's one thing. But I also want to touch things that we're dealing with today that have roots in times of serious mistakes. ♪ 'Cause if you can hear ♪ I'm gonna say it again. Very strong voices that it is today that dialogue is needed, because it is today that there is serious tension, it is I who ask what are the causes of these tensions, if they really are. Is it not so that they are simply inspired to block the process of state recovery, the process of building a strong Poland, the process of building a strong body and good conditions also for employees, i.e. employees, whom the social side has the right to ask for and about whom the social side talks through social dialogue? And a few examples, including those from Silesia. The town of Raciborz, not so far from where I live, privatized Polena, one of the larger and better companies. And what's going on out there today? It is precisely because of wrong decisions, as a result of unreflectively sold out blindly, and as you say, Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki and as we hear in various informants, almost 50% our economy was so privatized and sold out, right in this company I'm not going to quote the company's current name, most of the employees after the privatisation contract period are employed on trash contracts. Should you look so that privatisation does not give a chance for employees in these companies to develop honestly and normally in Poland? Let's see, if we take the example of Western European countries in which the same German company, and especially in its own country, employs its employees on such contracts? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In this connection, the task for the Social Dialogue Council is not only to create good conditions for new contracts, but to create conditions for companies already privatised in these companies, which are not part of Polish capital, to think about and think about new solutions that will actually give the company a chance to continue to operate in business conditions, of course, but so that some of the profits made can be directed to create better working conditions for employees. I am talking about this example, because in the senator's office I had some such proposals or comments that many companies in our region are using completely unacceptable practices in employment, completely bad and bad employment and contractual systems. After all, Mr President has talked about garbage contracts many times. I think that these solutions that we are proposing are moving towards a solution to this problem. But let us not be surprised that social dialogue is needed today, because we will certainly touch many interests of different business groups in the near future. This dialogue, which my previous speakers have said, the honourable Senator Rulewski and Senator Augustine, is not needed because today it is the rule of law and justice that brings such concern, but it is necessary for him to touch very serious omissions, omissions which have been laid down for years and which, today, by the government, Prime Minister Szydło and by your President, in the form of acceptance of laws, are removed. In recalling all the topics that Senator Rogut also was kind and gracious to present earlier, I will say that we have really forgotten over the years of wild privatisation about such fair solidarity, which allows us to give our citizens a sustainable opportunity to develop. I think that in this programme, which is being implemented, it occupies the main place, not only through the economic development programme, but also through all other restructuring and resolution programmes aimed at both the mining industry and all other areas of our country's functioning. Therefore, Mr President, on this occasion, I would like to thank you for this concern, for being so open in this dialogue. I am not ready to agree with all your proposals, but that is why the Council of Social Dialogue is here to solve problems. If we are talking about the international transport sector, I will say that during meetings with representatives of this sector, I am aware that not a minimum rate is an obstacle. Our companies are already able to accept this, which is not a problem. Today, wages in the transport sector are so high that they are not an obstacle. The obstacle is very restrictive, often unauthorized laws applied by countries through which our transport units in the form of several hundred thousand cars pass through. I mean, for example. very restrictive announcements concerning French law, which obliges every employer, whether he has 2, 3, 5 or 50 transport units, to ensure his representation in France. I am talking about this because we are going to debate these issues at the meetings of the Committees on National Economy, the Committee on Infrastructure and other Senate committees, but also because we are going to ask the Social Dialogue Council to address these issues, because they really, although they directly affect employers, also cover all these aspects relating to employees, i.e. employees. Thank you again for presenting this information. And I would also ask you to take into account our proposals that will be addressed to the Social Dialogue Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u48	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Dear guests! I am very pleased to hear the President's statement, and I have listened to a report which, in substance and in a very comprehensive way, shows what can be done despite such a short period of the Council of Dialogue. Mr Szydło's statement, particularly his answers to the questions, showed that he was not going to flatter our government, Prime Minister Szydło's government, but he was setting very concrete, realistic expectations that we should meet. This is very important because this is the basis for dialogue: a state where both parties understand their role, understand the situation, but also understand the need to talk. They don't dig ditches before talking, but rather they build bridges. These bridges are needed so that we can shape Poland, which will be favourable to a worker who will be supportive to every citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have looked at this document, read the work plan... This 17-point work plan of the Social Dialogue Council for the current year highlights the most important socio-economic issues faced by the interlocutors in the social dialogue. This is a very accurate ranking of the areas over which we should all rule, but also the Council of Dialogue In a special way tilt. I have allowed myself to ask the President about one area, about vocational training for work, for employment, and thank you very much for your reply. But there's also a health care area. I recommend to you in a special way the same area, which in fact affects each of us, each of our citizens, to some extent, is interested in health protection. And, ladies and gentlemen, over the past few years, health has not been well done, and I ignore the fact that we have in health care some of the founding bodies, these entities... Maybe it's not bad in itself. But, ladies and gentlemen, from my observations, as a longtime member of the social councils, especially hospitals, i.e. round-the-clock units, it appears that things are not going well inside either. We are dealing with processes which, Dear Lords, show a discrepancy of interests. The hospital is no longer a place where the main goal is to treat the patient and it becomes a place where individual professional groups try to compete with each other. And, ladies and gentlemen, it's not just about the fact that there's a lot of trade unions in health care units, because there's a lot of trade unions out there, but there are professional groups out there, which, because of their different salaries, and these salaries are really very high, they're bordering on decency and indecency. They're hostile to each other. There is no area of cooperation, there is a level of hostility that sometimes reveals itself. Ladies and gentlemen, these protests by the nurses at the Children's Health Center didn't happen by accident. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a problem that has been growing for many years. Nurses, average medical personnel are the lowest-paid group at the moment, the worst-off, and we're gonna have to deal with that, too. Dear Sirs, in health care units we have crawling privatisation, because by noon employees are employees of the health care facility of the public hospital, and in the afternoon they are employees of non-public companies, they work on public property, but represent the interests of the company. Ladies and gentlemen, it is often the case that companies themselves compete between themselves, that the hospital is the place where several companies operate, and by noon we are dealing with an employee, and in the afternoon we are dealing with an employer, a subcontractor. It doesn't help, especially doesn't help the patient, doesn't help the recipient of the health system. This is a matter which I recommend and recommend to the Council of Dialogue, and I encourage the Council of Dialogue to rely in a special way on the relations prevailing in large healthcare facilities, which have partially gone into the privatisation process. There, ladies and gentlemen, good things don't happen. I ignore, Dear Sirs, but also keep this in mind, inequality in access to health care. Poland's village is still impaired when it comes to access to health care. In the work of the Social Dialogue Council, it would be good for us to take these elements into account. It can't be that old villagers don't have access to rehabilitation, they don't have access to a specialist's doctor. This is not the time to save and restrict their access to the health system. Shortly, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you more about the law of employment. It is labour law that we build more and more favorable to the worker. But I would like to draw attention to one point, to the issue of mobbing. Perhaps you can see this problem deep down in the document, but at least in these points it is not very clearly shown, and I would like to draw attention to it. Dear Polish employee is still very often affected by mobbing and, in fact, despite the fact that the principles of anti-mobbing policy exist in public entities, the policy documents are accepted, most public entities have such documents, it is still very little because the employee in the situation of touching him with a bad look, so to speak euphemistically, by the employer still remains lonely. Even in a situation where he brings his case to court, to the labour court, unfortunately, the anti-mobbing system is such that very often the employee lacks evidence that he is affected by mobbing. In my opinion, Mr President, there is a need for a great deal of work with the National Judicial Council, with judges, with justice, to resolve these problems so that judges can see more of the issue of mobbing as an important threat in a situation where a person is employed, so that there are no opinions that are often expressed by employers: if you don't like it, go to court, judge, get your rights. Unfortunately, we have come to live in such a reality. So far the world has been built in a liberal way. We have, Dear Member States, a group of employers who are liberals who treat workers' needs marginally in so far as they are not relevant for their work. And, unfortunately, there are also a lot of such liberals in local entities. Where we have public units, where we have self-government units, there, Dear State, it is also, so to speak, sown with liberalism. And there the needs of the employee are, Dear State, treated very marginally. I would therefore like to make the President aware of the issue of mobbing. But my point is, in cooperation with the justice system. ...so that there's a breakthrough here, that an employee who goes to a working court with a mobbing issue doesn't have to be sentenced to failure from the very beginning. Because that's what it looks like right now. With a number of current regulations, the worker is doomed to fail. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the most important issues I would like to highlight. Finally, let me refer to the narrative that colleagues from the Civic Platform built, the profound division of society, the lack of dialogue, what happened after the last parliamentary elections. Listening to this, you might feel that the last eight years have been milk and honey for all years. That it was years of universal happiness, years in which every democratic initiative immediately found its listening and recognition. Ladies and gentlemen, less than a year ago, the same room, the proposal for a referendum that President Duda is proposing. The referendum as the highest dimension of public democracy. Questions about retirement age, about six-year-olds in schools. Ladies and gentlemen, the Senate does not agree. That's what the last eight years have been like in practice. It was, Dear Lords, immeasurably self-adoration of the ruling group, who looked very little at the needs of man. We are sorry, my dear fellows, to hear this narration today about how bad we are. Because it actually seems like we're the very bad guys. And this very unreasonable society has chosen such a majority. It's a democratic choice. There are people... I understand, in human terms, that they can't agree with that. Nevertheless, from this speaker, I would suggest that we be more reticent. The government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło and all Senators of Law and Justice are open to the needs of man and will shape order in our country in accordance with these needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u50	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Rado Social Dialogue! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the sign of changes that took place in Poland after 25 October 2015 is that we can legally host President Piotr Duda in this room. I would like to remind you that at the time when the pension age law was being considered in this Chamber, Mr.Piotr Duda, President of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union, was not by the marshals of both chambers, and therefore probably by Mrs. Kopacz and Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, allowed to be present in Parliament and to listen. 'Cause it was about being able to listen. The course of this debate. This was the best way of showing the nature of that authority, which on the one hand appealed to citizenship and democracy, and on the other hand did not allow citizens, including the chairman of the trade union of.Solidarity, a relationship of historical rank, a union legally operating in the territory of the Republic of Poland, to participate in the deliberations. Let me remind you that then Marshal Borusewicz used the argument that unionists are breaking the law. I would also like to remind you that the prosecution has initiated an investigation in this case and has not identified any signs of a crime. But I have not heard from Marshal Kopacz or from Marshal Borusewicz an apology to Mr Piotr Duda. So that I express my great joy that Mr President is here today, and in a double role, as he is not only the head of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union, but also the chairman of the Social Dialogue Council, which, let us remind you, was appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland on 22 October 2015. High Izbo, specific issues were already mentioned here in the discussion that took place. I'd like to say two facts. First of all, recently, because on June 3rd, I had the opportunity to participate in my constituency, in Przasnysz, in the solemn celebrations of the anniversary of the establishment of "Solidarity" with the participation of representatives of the Mazowsze Region and of course the troops of the "Solidarity" from the northern Mazowsze. And what does it turn out to be? At a time when it is said that the role of trade unions is changing, that we live in another reality, that the classic approach to the role of trade unions is a bit passing, in Przasnysz, where there were initially 24 members of NSZZ.Solidarity, today we have an organization bringing together more than 200 people. They are, of course, employees of the district hospital, which operates in Przasnysz, but also representatives of other industries and occupations. What does that show? This shows that this system, which, as far as we know, has been developed primarily in Austria, concerning an attempt to create a certain balance between work, capital and the regulator, i.e. between employers, employees and the state, an attempt to build social dialogue and discussion on fundamental socio-economic problems relating to a given country or area, an attempt to operate economic reality in dialogue rather than in force and not in such a way as to determine who at the moment has a strong argument, an attempt to build in social peace sometimes difficult decisions is a proven European model. And I am very pleased that Poland refers to this system. It must be acknowledged that, despite the different national, local problems with the functioning of the labour market, regulation, the circumstances of doing business or entrepreneurship, Today, Prime Minister Morawiecki has put forward further proposals for facilitating entrepreneurs, there are two areas which, in my deep conviction, impose new obligations on the Social Dialogue Council in relation to these classic ones, i.e. concerning a certain role of mediator, a role of forum in which positions are taken and in which it is working, preferably during dialogue and in consensus, a common position against often difficult problems arising in the socio-economic area. High Izbo, I'm thinking of two factors here. First of all, about a neoliberal concept related to globalisation and the fact that in today's world the concept of borders is disappearing. There is a free movement of capital, services, employees, intellectual property, patents, so all that actually constitutes the nucleus. human economic activity. And that's a trend we can't control. That's just the way it is, that's the way the world is. And we're at the stage of globalisation right now. In turn, we are also hearing about TTIP, the Treaty on the Protection of International Investment; negotiations between the United States and the European Union are currently underway. And according to conservative estimates... It is calculated that if these entries enter into force, the loss in the European Union should be counted against At least, I stress, it's a very careful calculation of 600 thousand jobs. And these are the new challenges facing the Social Dialogue Council, because this is also a dialogue with the government party, which is in turn a party to the negotiations on this treaty. This poses new challenges. Because, on the one hand, we have an objective situation that, however, what is much to say here, the over-regulated economy of the European Union, at very high energy prices and with very high environmental standards, loses its competitiveness in the global market in relation to those countries where these 2 parameters are different, i.e. where there is cheap energy, where there are no such restrictive environmental rules and where, as is stressed, there are lower labour costs, because that is also something to be said. And the European Union in this race with its regulations is losing its ability and competitiveness in the global arena, even though it is the area with the largest gross domestic product in the world. On the other hand, the attempt to solve this problem is precisely the TTIP, i.e. the release or liberalisation of procedures, the abolition of policies that have somehow protected the European market from global competition, including competition from a very strong US economy. And these are the serious challenges that the President and the Council are facing right now. They are also facing the Polish government, which is taking part in these negotiations, because they will be decisions that will actually decide for many, many years on the socio-economic future and the reality of our country's functioning. I would like to tell the President and the High Council of Social Dialogue that I am very grateful for this work that has been done. I wish you a lot of strength, a lot of perseverance in these difficult conversations that are before you at the moment, because they can be decisions that will not be understood by employers, even for workers and for the Polish state, because each of the participants, each side of this dialogue, has a slightly clipping point of view. But the advice itself, by its very nature, should combine these various sketchy points of view and at some point lead to a meeting or attempt to lead to a meeting of this argument and to decisions that will be made. Happy birthday, God bless you!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u52	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bobka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. A few reflections at the end, perhaps at the end of this discussion on dialogue, specifically addressed to the President, who today Well, that's the way it is and it's good. He's a very important figure. And here, Mr President, I would like to point out that you have many instruments today, but in this sense you also have a huge responsibility for how dialogue in Poland will look in the coming years. And first note, first thought, and basically the question: is there too much dialogue in Poland or too little? Well, on the one hand, the dialogue, at least I understand it, is, I think we'll agree on that here. A great prey. The fact that today we resolve matters not by force, fist, violence, street demonstrations, but by dialogue, is a possession and value, and this must be protected. But this instrument must also, in my opinion, be used rationally. So once again, is there too much dialogue or too little dialogue? Well, in my opinion, there is too much dialogue in Poland on the one hand, because we often spend too long deliberating on many different topics. Very often the dialogue, unfortunately, is apparent in nature, transforms into a game of appearances, an attempt to manipulate certain matters, as the experienced trade union said here, like Senator Rooster. On the other hand, there is not enough, I think, effective dialogue, such dialogue, which would end in conclusion, decision and commitment. So we should not only call for more dialogue, but seriously think about what to do to make dialogue really effective and effective. And in this context, I have three comments. The first directly refers to what you have rightly said here, pointing out to ministers that they do not come to meetings of the Council of Dialogue. Mr President, but these councils, conventions, committees, often resulting from the bill, are so much that... I myself, as Deputy Minister of Science, am a member of six permanent councils, and as I will add to that other The kind that are around the ministry. It's a dozen or so. In fact, if you think about it well, you might conclude that there is something unhealthy about it. If we have a problem and we don't know what to do with it And there are really dramatic problems, such as those already mentioned here by colleagues mobbing or other serious problems. It's what we call counsel, pretending to be doing something about it. So I would appeal to the President here, but also to all of us, so that when we decide to set up another council, we really think about it. Because then the action of such counsel comes down to pretending, that the first meeting is attended by those who are to be there, then by deputy, deputies, etc. So that there's advice, and that doesn't make any sense. Another point concerns the conduct of these counsels and the virtues of restraint. Mr President, don't be offended, but if you're saying that one of the meetings of the board of dialogue lasted more than 10 hours, please excuse me. This is not something to be proud of. I'm used to work, I've often worked physically in my life, say, after 12 hours and I've endured it. But it is not possible to work intellectually for 10 or 12 hours, and dialogue is intellectual work, so advice and meetings should be shorter, well prepared, should last 2, 3 hours to the most. Although here in the Senate, we've been talking about dialogue for four hours. Constraint is a virtue. Those advice should be shorter. I don't want to be here anymore... Well, maybe half a joke, half a serious question: how do these council meetings last a dozen hours, whether or not workers' rights are being violated? I mean, someone's protocol, you gotta get there, you gotta go, you gotta go, you gotta go, you gotta go, you gotta go, you gotta go, you gotta go, you gotta go, you gotta go, you How does that apply to the work code when these council meetings last so long? One more thing, one more virtue, with which we unfortunately have a huge difficulty in Poland: vocabulary That word was actually forgotten. either responsibility for compliance with the findings. If there is any advice, partners meet, and they decide something, it is extremely important, crucial or even decisive that these arrangements are taken seriously to simply stick to these arrangements. Because otherwise, we can dialogue to the end of the world and even longer. And unfortunately, we have a problem with that. There are, of course, certain legal instruments, to some extent certain arrangements translate into regulations, there are legal guarantees that the arrangements made in certain bodies become a bond for ministers, for institutions. But if there's no elementary word, it's all gonna be a pound of quills worth, and that's what I'm paying attention to. I will return to the first thought: now you, on this council and on several other councils have a great responsibility, but there is also a good climate for dialogue. If only we could make good use of this climate and these opportunities, because we are certainly in danger of being too broad that I would say so, a dialogation, from which little can ultimately result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u54	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Art. 20 Constitutions It's worth remembering at this point "The social market economy based on freedom of economic activity, private property and solidarity, dialogue and cooperation between social partners is the basis of the economic system of the Republic of Poland. Well, I happen to be the co-author of that record. I was, am, and will also be attached to him, not only as a citizen, but also as a man of the left. I remember when we were discussing this formulation. The concept of a social market economy was taken from Germany, but in Germany it was never specifically defined. It was somehow understood, but it was not defined. And we came to the conclusion that if we were to limit ourselves only to the formulation of the social market economy, it would not be enough. Not to mention that some people are ready to think that this is about the employment economy, the state economy. That is why this has been expanded, so that it is also about freedom of economic activity, and about legal ownership, but also about solidarity, dialogue and cooperation between the social partners. This is, you can say, the core of the social market economy. Well, then there were different railroads. I personally feel a certain satisfaction from the fact that the first law, which formed a body grouping social partners, employers and workers, as well as the government, was passed at a time when the left was ruled. And at the beginning, things were going well. Later, as I said, there were different periods. And indeed, the most difficult time has been these last years when we have dealt with a coincidence of different circumstances. There was an economic crisis, which, let's say, on the one hand requires even more dialogue, but on the other hand it certainly creates much more tension, makes social, social demands difficult, and sometimes it also requires rapid action, which makes dialogue itself difficult. And I think that's what we've been dealing with lately. Which doesn't change the fact that the previous government has also made some mistakes here. I remember when certain issues were agreed at the meeting of the dialogue committee. A government representative was there, and he agreed, of course. Then, when the case went to the Council of Ministers, a negative decision was made. So, you could say, a government representative turned out to be uninformed, uninformed, etc. Such cases, of course, undermine trust, which by nature, especially in economic crisis situations, is still not excessive. And this caused some kind of boycott from the workers' organizations. But it must also be said that the previous government has learned from this situation. And the law, which was adopted, first of all changes, can be said to be the structure of the management of the said body. The fact that they are there alternately representatives of employers and employees makes them, you can say, tone up. Which doesn't change the fact that there are still so many issues to be agreed on. But there is no sense that you are a bit of an addition here, and the government directs this advice and may therefore impose a certain way of working. I would also like to express my appreciation for the President, who also thanked our former political leaders And President Komorowski, and Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. It's not very fashionable today. I think it is also a lesson of some kind, at least for some current politicians who, when it comes to past governments and past leaders, not only do they not leave a dry thread on them, but they cannot see any merit, but they should not. Now we have that advice. She's pretty short-lived. I think there haven't been a lot of arrangements yet, because I don't think there's really much time yet. The Council was organized. There is quite an impressive division of responsibilities and scope of matters that the Council wants to address. And speaking of my predecessor, Mr. Bobka's sanatorium, I'm going to say that I happen to have political leadership in my life, and I know what it looks like. On the one hand, it's like the senator said, that too much advice, rapture and sub-committee doesn't lead to anything. On the other hand, imposing too many obligations can also create problems. I've read the program of action, in which there are actually just the right things. I would also like to stress that it is good that there are problems there. I mean, it's not like this council acts a little like a fire department. Right? There is a conflict, and we put it under the council's deliberations, and we try to establish something there, although it often happens that there is no discussion at all, but looks at a certain problem with perspective. Let's say health care. Of course, whenever there is a conflict, you can also ask the government to present a long-term concept that will eliminate these conflicts earlier. As we are talking about health, it can be said that the health analogy here is very good, because you can spend a lot of money on treating all smokers, and you can spend less money on prevention, discourage smoking. So it's the same here. However, the number of these tasks is enormous. And I would like, Mr President, also as an economist and former finance minister, to draw attention to the following. Namely, a lot of... Because you also deal with law, labour law, etc., often cost-free, so to speak, but a lot of things are cost-effective, that is, you have to spend money, which is very often coming from the budget. And here's the problem: if you look at the situation in the woods and you look at each tree separately, you'll make the right decision about each tree. And if you look at the forest as a whole, that decision might be different. It's the same here. For example, is the 500+ program a bad program? In general, the good direction, although the details raise doubts We've already discussed this here, and I'm not going back to that. Next year it will cost PLN 23 billion. In my opinion, it blocks a lot of other expenses. Perhaps this is the right thing to do, perhaps the government has decided so and will do so, only that if the next problem arises in a moment, e.g. The fact that we need to ensure that we have a proper staff of nurses in our health care service, which requires employment, i.e. spending money, and you will raise this issue, the government will come and say, well, we are terribly sorry, but there is no money in the budget for it. If it appears e.g. The problem of increasing spending on kindergartens and day care is that the government will say: but not now because there is no money for it. So I am simply pointing out that this budget policy should not only be defined in the context of what is going to happen to the deficit, because it is the government that is doing this, it is obliged to do so in relation to the European Union, but it should also reach a little deeper and show how a number of different social problems will be solved in a few years, which first, which in the second and which so far at all. And then only the employees and employers could comment. And they could say, but we think that priorities should be a little different, that this money needs to be moved a little differently. If you don't do it, you're gonna be exposed to the fact that in a moment, once you've achieved one priority in its entirety or in addition, you're gonna find out that there's no money... And there really isn't any money. And then what can you do? I think this is a case worth considering. As for your report, your approach to the subject, etc., I think that is the correct approach. I would also like to join the wishes that this dialogue in Poland will continue and that it will have good results. And one more thing. All matters cannot be imposed on the Social Dialogue Council. Here my colleague, Senator Augustyn, said: but there is no dialogue in Poland etc. With regard to dialogue between employers and employees, this dialogue is. Somewhere at the level of the voivodship, it is defective, but the council is already developing it. Of course, we have another problem with dialogue. It's in society. Because indeed the actions of the government that have been taken, the actions of the Sejm and the Senate, the rapid adoption of laws without consultation, without the opinion of experts It's all caused tension. And that is the problem of social dialogue, but I do not think that it should be burdened by the Social Dialogue Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u56	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Would the President of the Social Dialogue Council, Mr Piotr Duda, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? I see you are, so I'd like to invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would just like to thank you very much for the substantive debate, for your support, too, and for your interest in social dialogue in our country, in our beloved homeland. I am very built by the fact that the senators who went out on the stand and took the floor in the discussion... that almost everyone... I am convinced that each of them has taken note of the report presented, because you have invoked this report. This is very encouraging, on the one hand, as regards all legal aspects, and on the other hand, as regards the fact that you have so many laws and draft laws in front of you... It's very upbuilding for me as head of the board of dialogue. I will not address all the issues raised here, I will say briefly. Today in our country we have institutional dialogue and civil dialogue. There is no big problem with institutional dialogue. It is the Council of Social Dialogue and this is the minimum in terms of structure and teams that must be. So the team is preparing solutions, transferring them to the bureau, and we recommend this to the plenary sessions of the Social Dialogue Council. And in order for this to work well so that there are good studies, well-prepared positions, good instruments for transferring this government and parliamentary side, this institutional dialogue must not be less. As for the plenary or the Presidency itself, it is about what the Minister, the senator, said here. I'll say this. As President of the Social Dialogue Council, I try not to take anybody's vote away, as it is here today, during today's debate, which has already been going on for four hours. And I am very pleased that you have spent so much time in social dialogue, and it is very upbuilding for me too. The Presidency lasts hours because it's a working body, so we're sitting... And I often say these words to myself: if you like, Duda, something you don't like, you can give up at any time, you make that decision, it's your good will, so work. And the plenary session lasts three or four hours, everything is prepared as it should be. Teams must be in the right rank, too, not because we're happy. On the other hand, it is. That the Deputy Minister is coming or the Minister is coming. For us, the most important thing is that a decision-making person is coming, who can be asked in this team a question about a particular bill. And that's what's important to us. Today, I can say that. The council is functioning well, and we are getting on with organizational matters. As for what was also raised here today, various other issues, unfortunately, as the Council of Social Dialogue, we are not able to deal with them, for example because of a law which imposes restrictions on the Council of Social Dialogue on dealing with matters that go beyond the competence of the Council of Social Dialogue. It doesn't mean that... if there's any mediation in some very important matter, we're open. But we have our powers set out in the Social Dialogue Council Act. And, for example, the law on franchise, in my opinion, the chairman of the council, goes beyond the powers of the Social Dialogue Council, the institutional one that has an autonomous dialogue between employers and trade unionists, employees, but also the government. This is how it looks today, and we're trying to keep it together so we don't go beyond our powers. So that once again I thank you very much for this very good approach to the Social Dialogue Council formula. Thank you, Marshal Borowski. Those who know me know very well that those who work well and actually support the work of trade unions, workers, the Social Dialogue Council, I will thank you, and I will speak loudly about those who do wrong. This is the most important thing to me. What happened at the time, when building this consensus on the Social Dialogue Council, was rare, because then all clubs from the right to the left After all, in the Sejm, some 423 Members voted in favour of the Social Dialogue Council Act. So that we have built not only a very good bill, but also a consensus on such a very important issue. For this and for all of you and for today's debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u58	Thank you very much. I thank the President for presenting the report to the Senate. I state that the Senate took note of the report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the period from 22 October 2015 to 31 March 2016. Thank you very much again. [[Chairman of the Social Dialogue Council Piotr Duda: Thank you very much.]] We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Energy Efficiency Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 184 and the report of the Commission In print No 184 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On 8 June, the Commission dealt with this law. The Act is a continuation of the Act of 15 April 2011. It is a pedestal of faults detected in a malfunctioning system so far. The new regulation in relation to the matter regulated by the existing law obliges certain entities I'll read it. In order to carry out an energy efficiency improvement project with the final consumer, confirmed by an energy efficiency audit, or to obtain and present a certificate of energy efficiency to the President of the Energy Regulatory Office for redemption and introduces an audit obligation for large enterprises, and lays down the rules for carrying out this audit. The Act abolishes the obligation to tender as a result of which the President of URE selected projects to improve energy efficiency. It provides for the possibility for the President of the Energy Regulatory Office to issue energy efficiency certificates at the request of the entity with which the energy efficiency improvement project will be carried out or the entity authorised by it. These provisions of the Act significantly simplify the process of awarding energy efficiency certificates, de facto simplify and encourage energy efficiency improvements. And this is basically a very good step, a step in the right direction, towards real energy saving. [[Thank you very much. At present, the senators...]] I'll just add one more thing. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. The committee decided, following a vote, to propose to the State the adoption of the law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u60	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Hello, Minister Andrzej Piotrowski, hello. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: No, I have nothing to add.]] No, thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Augustine. Minister, please come to the speaker. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Sorry, I'm debuting.]] I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u61	Minister, what will be the situation of those who have spent on energy-efficient investments and ended them after 1 January 2014? Will they have a chance to recover these expenditures on the basis of existing rules?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u62	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u63	High Izbo! This case was discussed at the committee meeting and I didn't think he'd be back. There is a provision in the Act which gives the President of the URE the opportunity to announce an additional auction this year. Therefore, those entities which have carried out projects since 2014 may start on existing rules and obtain these certificates. I would like to point out that the rules used so far mean a competition, so, as it is in the case of auctions, someone will not get it. The new rules mean that the person who applies and proves the correctness of the application, of course by providing the relevant documentation, will obtain such a certificate. So the main idea of changing the law is to give as many opportunities as possible. We expect, looking at the developments so far, the degree of progress of the work of the president of the URA, that in fact this bail can be announced this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u64	Thank you very much. I don't see any requests for questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing the senators that no one has signed up... [[Senator Pekkis, this is Senator Pekkis.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Come on in, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u65	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! It is a very important law for energy, which greatly improves the current state. It improves the situation we have been dealing with over the past few years, and in which, despite the fact that companies, for example, heat energy I can give you concrete examples here, because I worked with them. They increased energy efficiency by the expense of the costs incurred, when the auction took place, by auction and not by winning... Although they have incurred costs to improve energy efficiency, they have paid for the audit And this isn't a cheap case, so it's cost-effective. They did not receive an exemption from the so-called. replacement fees. The substitute fee is a form of tax, a penalty, but that is de facto the case, for failing to improve energy efficiency. Therefore, so far it has been so that someone actually improved efficiency, but because he did not win the tender, the auction organized by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, did not receive the prize, i.e. he was not exempt from the substitute fee. It was a bad situation, because real actions aimed at improvement efficiency has not been rewarded. This change, this very important, long-awaited change, corrects this situation. Now anyone who carries out the effort to increase energy efficiency, in other words, will reduce the burden on the nation by producing energy, not only electricity, but also heat, which will translate into a reduction in the emissions of all the bad substances that were already mentioned yesterday, and will prove this by carrying out an audit, will come a person who knows about it, who with his knowledge of the field guarantees that this will be done reliably and conscientiously, and this will be confirmed. After addressing the President of the URE, he will be given the opportunity to withdraw from the substitute fee, a form of tax. Like I said, it's very important. It will be felt directly in the state, felt for society. Thanks to these simplified rules, we should notice in a rather short period of time the improvement of the energy economy, not only in electricity, also in heat, and in the use of existing energy sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u66	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. High Izbo, all indications are that tonight will be the end of the evening vote. I'm talking about it because many of you are asking me that. But the exact time of completion is difficult to predict because there are still 6 points. Let me remind you that the first two votes have already been passed. Depending on when these 6 points are completed, then we will vote. I assume we'll have a vote tonight if it doesn't take too long. Senator Augustine. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u67	It's a formal matter. I would like to warn you that it is not excluded that the Civic Platform Club will be forced to request a break at 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u68	Of course, yes, if that is the case. I'm just informing you because there are a lot of questions from the state, what are the forecasts. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education. The text of the Act is contained in print No 178 and the report of the Commission In print No 178 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! First of all, I would like to inform you that there has been a change in the rapporteur of the committee. It was originally supposed to be Professor Sewerinski. The 2005 Higher Education Act imposed an obligation on universities to regulate the names of universities in accordance with Article. 3rd of this bill. Art. 3 The Act specified that the name of the university can be used by universities that hold doctoral degrees in at least 10 disciplines, including at least 2 qualifications in 3 fields of science. The name of the Technical University was conditioned by the possession of powers in at least 10 disciplines, including 6 of technical sciences, in turn so-called. the adjective university had to have 6 qualifications, including 4 in the field of studies covered by the university profile. The name "polytechnics' could be used by universities with 6 disciplines, including at least 4 in technical sciences, and the name "Academia' could be used by universities with at least 2 doctoral qualifications. This was to be ordered until 2010, but in 2009, by amending the Act, the date was modified by moving it by 6 years, i.e. by 30 June 2016. This deadline is currently being postponed for a further 4 years, which is until 30 June 2020. Committee on Science, Education and Sport at its meeting on 2 June this year. it considered this law of 20 May. The situation described in senate print No 178 was met with criticism of senators who expressed, among others, the next shift of the term. the view that names which do not correspond to the requirements of Article. 3 Laws on Higher Education mislead future students, students or other people, society. Therefore, a request was made to reject this law, which was supported by the committee. I would like to point out that this was not unanimous support. That concludes my report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u70	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] I can't see. Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Alexander Bobko: Yes, yes.]] Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Government, on behalf of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, I would like to recommend to the High Senate the support of this law. I understand the arguments in the committee that this period of the next extension of the vacathio legis for schools, and especially for universities, may raise doubts, but at the moment the enforcement of the law which follows from the current law, in the opinion of the ministry would be even more, I would say, awkward, for several reasons. First of all, because work is underway on the new law. We assume that this new law will be prepared in the next two years, and there the problem of defining and categorizing universities will be addressed. This is one of the major problems in the system. We assume that this matter will be re-regulated within the next year and that, at the moment, the enforcement of the state, which was defined in the Act 10 years ago, would be awkward and unnecessary. The position of the Ministry is also shared by KRASP, the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, heads of Polish schools, who are often also restrictive and are mindful of matters related to higher education, but gave a positive opinion on this law and we actually have their recommendation to extend this vacathio legis. I would also like to say that the question of this name was actually designed 10 years ago and that life has slightly verified it, because although the definition of the university itself is particularly about full universities, it has some logic, the name of the university is protected by the number of doctoral powers, and these powers should be according to the legislator, according to the applicable law, held in several different fields, but it turned out that universities that were founded on the basis of humanities schools, and there are several such cases, we are talking about exactly 6 universities in Poland... At the moment, these six universities would have to be renamed. And universities that are based on humanities schools, such as WSPs, or which by definition are mainly humanities schools, such as the Catholic University of Lublin, have a very difficult task. And you can actually wonder if it's rational for them to build technical departments as well, to which the law obliges them. There are universities. I don't want to mention names anymore. Which they have e.g. 19 doctoral rights, but they're missing, say, one in the technical field. They have, for example. 9 habilitating rights, so they are large, serious universities, but they do not meet this single formal requirement. And now it would be awkward to deny them the right to use the full name of the university. So that once again I appeal very much here and recommend that the High Senate, in favour of this law, support and approve. In the Seym she passed almost unanimously, there were only a few votes against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u72	Thank you very much. Please stay because there are questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u73	This article extends the date of entry into force... As I understand it, there is a contradiction between the interests of universities that meet these requirements and those that do not yet meet them. Please tell me, in the case of the previous deadline and in the case of the current period, is the number of universities that do not meet the requirements the same? Has it decreased significantly? In short, is it real that at the next date... we won't have to reschedule this term. Are these colleges... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Alexander Bobko: I understand.]] ...now, so I would have it He called adjectives or adjectives, universities, becoming adjectives?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u74	Thank you very much. My initial point is that I wouldn't talk about conflict of interest. And the best proof of that is that representation, you can say, of all the universities, which is the rectors' conference, supports the presentation discussed here. So it's not related to, let's say, differences of interests in the environment itself. About... Well, I have a few sets here, but I'll admit that I don't have accurate information about the situation in 2010 or 2009/10 when the vacathio legis was previously extended. I can't say that. But what I'm going to say right now is that in these six university cases... In the case of 4 of them there is actually one right. I mean, they have more than 10 of them, quantitatively fulfilling the requirement, but one of the most common areas of science is either technical or biological. That's why I was talking about: they're schools that were built on the basis of humanities schools. As far as the possibility of achieving... maybe the CUL will have... If this definition behaves, the CUL may have the most serious problem. Because he started building departments, biotechnology department or biological science, but... Well, you can think about the rationality of such action in a situation where there is a natural university in Lublin and there is the Lublin University of Technology. So that the action does not make much sense. So I would have seen it all rather so that we are now prolonging, with some consequence... just to avoid this restriction. And while creating a new law, we will try to regulate all of this so that, on the one hand, the state of the university is de facto preserved and, on the other hand, the name of the university is protected. Not every school, though. With all due respect, she could claim to be a university. But the truth is, in the late '90s... Because what we are talking about here is the aftermath or effect of actions, in my opinion rational and sensible, which took place mainly in the 1990s or, let's say, until 2005, when the case was not discussed here. statutoryly regulated and several universities in Poland were established on the basis of a certain political decision, sometimes such a little, one can say, on credit. So that schools that had one right to habilitation and several doctoral rights, were renamed into a university by the Sejm Act. But most of these schools, believe me, I have data here, if anyone is interested, I can give you some examples. It is really making good progress on this issue, so it gets new powers, progressing there. Well, that's the one thing I've been talking about, despite many years of failure to reach a few schools.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u75	Thank you very much. If you don't mind me saying... In Lublin, the existence of a very strong... I was gonna say "Academy." Well, there's the Medical University, the University of Technology, so double the faculty at KUL is... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Aleksander Bobko: Well, it doesn't make any sense.]] It doesn't make any sense, of course. Ask me a question. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u76	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to ask you something. During the committee's meeting, the Undersecretary of State was present, who said that about 11 universities had problems fulfilling statutory requirements. Can you name them? 'Cause I'm already... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Alexander Bobko: May I, please.]] One or the other name has already come up, so I'd appreciate it if you'd be kind enough to mention the names of the university that are having trouble fulfilling these requirements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u77	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u78	If necessary, of course. So from universities full of... Well, that's where the most delicate case is, for example. Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University does not meet these requirements. There are 13 doctoral rights, but they are not in the field of biological, medical and chemical sciences. Well, for reasons that are kind of obvious, because the university has a certain genesis. Now the University of Bydgoszcz. Here is maybe the most difficult situation is there are only 9 permissions. One is missing in the field of technical and physical and mathematical sciences, this is 1 group, because there is only 1 authority in this area, and one in the field of biological and chemical sciences. In Bydgoszcz there is an open topic of medical university, medical academy; if for example. integration of the medical department has taken place, this is one of the alternatives With a university in Bydgoszcz, this case would be solved. Rzeszowski University. I know the autopsy case here. At the time of creation, in 2001 he had 5 doctoral rights and 1 habilitating right. Today, it has 4 habilitating rights and 12 doctoral rights, but there is a lack of competence in technical sciences. There have been math applications here, but it is just as difficult to pass a math exam for students and it is also difficult to get permissions, so unfortunately it has not been done so far. But I think it's a matter of time before this university gets the authority. University of Szczeciński, the largest university in this group, has 19 doctoral powers and 9 habilitating powers, while in technical sciences Only one. Well, there's also a technical university in Szczecin, and I think it's natural and agricultural... [[Medical.]] Well, medically, I'm sure. Medically, I'm sure. The half-breed's gone, isn't it? In turn the University of Bialystok has 10 powers, but also only one in the field of biological sciences. And the Catholic University of Lublin, which could in principle be discussed as to whether it would be necessary to change the name Well, he's Catholic, so you could say he wasn't... There are 10 permissions to habilitation, and dozens to doctorate, but they are not in the field of technical sciences; they are not, because that is just his story. Technical or technical universities don't have that problem. Besides, technical universities were only created when this law entered into force, so this was already a different situation. Previously, there were only polytechnics, they weren't created by the Law of Technical Universities. There's a few more academy left. To be named academy, you have to have two clearances. There are several academies that were created earlier, i.e. the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw, the Academy of Finance and Business in Warsaw, which has 1 authority, the Academy of Humanities and Economics in Łódź, the Polish Academy in Częstochowa... There is also a Pedagogical University in Cracow. Well, there's a specific situation here, too. He's got 11 privileges, but as a teacher's university, he's only entitled to... I mean, in the field of pedagogical teaching, there's actually no possibility of having 6 powers. Actually, the name itself is a little... Well, this name does not fit the bill, but for historical reasons the name of the Pedagogical University, which was founded on the basis of the Pedagogical Academy and previously the WSP in Krakow, is justified. So that's... [[And the Academy of Fine Arts in Szczecin?]] Yeah, yeah. I missed the Academy of Fine Arts in Szczecin. [[She's got zero...]] Yeah, yeah. And recently, we've set up another academy that's supposed to do... which is, you know, on credit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u79	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u80	Minister, I have not a question for you, but a request for an opinion, and it is your own opinion rather than your own. Well, I would ask you to clarify the issue of a certain tension which is and must be, and which triggered a vote at the committee meeting... The tension between, on the one hand, the obvious fact that the law must be applied and enforced, and if there is no such execution, then why be the law at all, and on the other hand, that there is a factor that, you can say, is the result of a human error, just someone made a mistake at some point I'm not saying that in the '90s, maybe it was later. And he didn't notice that the law was inadequate to reality. The point is that the pot in which these universities are located is both deserving and undeserved, because profiling universities are simply unable to meet the artificial definition of the university. And I would like to ask for such an opinion whether you, as Minister or as Rzeszowski University's Rector, are in a state of knowledge where you could be separated from this list today... I'm not asking you to replace... I just want to know if you have any tools at all that would allow you to divide the university from this list into those that don't deserve to be called a university, and those that, due to a legal error, cannot and will in fact never be able to achieve statutory requirements and therefore need to change the law as soon as possible. It's a shame we're only doing this now, not 2, 3 years ago, or 5 years ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u81	I will answer in this way: in my opinion, the schools which at the moment use the name suggesting that this is a full university, is 20, or actually 21, because there is still the Pontifical University of John Paul II in Cracow, but it is on a different principle... works according to Polish law, but was called according to church law, which is another story. In my opinion, these schools, which are now known as universities, although not always that I will put it this way, are by themselves universities, but in the environment they are treated as universities. And in my deepest conviction, it would be unreasonable to deprive them of the name of the university. They're universities, and that's what they do. And as far as this definition is concerned, as I said here, I do not want to overly criticize it, because in 2005 it was logical and played an important role, because it raised the bar and so many schools took a lot of positive action to jump to that bar. Yeah, but today, our knowledge or our diagnosis of the situation is that it's a little bit... that there's a little lack of imagination because of the fact that universities that are based on humanities schools, which I've already talked about here, but... Well, these requirements aren't as high as inappropriate, because if the school has nine habilitating powers... At that time, there was still a situation that in 2005 there was talk about the possibility of leaving the rights of habilitating, from habilitating, and therefore the definition of universities included the rights to doctoralism. I would, for example. he had such a proposal today with this new definition, perhaps he should return to a number of habilitating rights, because this is an even higher level of academicism. Basically, all schools that are universities today would be able to meet this requirement, say, 4 or 5 habilitating rights. So that's how I see it. But I probably wouldn't see it that way, at the moment, one of those schools that have been appointed in the past maybe a little higher up university, claim that she doesn't do anything, so that right should be deprived of it. In my opinion, there are no such cases. The dorms could be discussed, but there are fewer cases there, and it's no longer so burning, although it is of course important for these schools. Unfortunately, in the case of the academy, there are schools that have not obtained any progress for several years, although it does not take so much, because only 2 doctoral rights to be a dorm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u82	Thank you very much. Ask me a question, Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u83	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, my question is partly in line with Professor Zarin's question, because we are talking about the future of our universities. So to say, without defining their name, it is partly related to the analysis of whether these universities are able to develop such staff, which will be able to exercise habilitating or doctoral rights. Did you analyze this before adopting this resolution? Because I'll be honest with you, that's what's in my heart, too. I see the university as a full university, perhaps more theoretical than practical. I was attached to the name of the Academia, which told me about a certain profession. However, it is now difficult to deprive universities of the title they had, because they would view it as depreciating their role in the local environment. I was wondering if there'd be a chance that there'd be an inter-university faculty. The idea would be that when a department gets some value, it should include it in a given university. I was just thinking. I would have asked for an answer to the first question. Because it is known that the faculty, which gives the opportunity to educate and promote its successors, slowly becomes limited and the element of duality often plays a role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u84	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u85	Thank you. I don't have accurate data on the staff at the universities we're talking about, but that's due to the very number of allowances held. It can be calculated that there are a lot of university staff, i.e. professors and habilitated doctors. In Rzeszow, which I know. At the time of the university, there were 60 titular professors and about 100 habilitated doctors. Today we have about 110 titular professors and over 200 habilitated doctors. That's progress in 15 years. This is over 300 independent academic teachers. So in a numerical sense, it's a mass that actually meets university requirements. And that's also the case at the other universities. So in this respect... Once again, I think that the structure, as far as the number of universities is concerned, should rather be preserved. This pot is open on one side. I mean, it's not said that universities can't be established elsewhere. And such an example is Kielce, who, as a result of very good local, local and especially academic activities a few years ago, simply obtained the right number of powers in various fields and fulfilled the requirements of this new law, after 2005 became a university. And great, we're all delighted. Perhaps there will be a few more such examples, but rather few. I think that at most on the fingers of one hand will be able to count such phenomena within 10 years, I am convinced of that. As for the ones that are still there, it seems that it would be appropriate to organise this new law so that they can use the name of the university. What the senator has said is a little bit of a problem, the problem of the university itself, cooperation with other schools that are in the region. Especially at regional universities, in centres such as Białystok, Opole, Rzeszów, one thinks about cooperation or thinks about the academic environment of the region. And that's what's important. It's not so easy to do, because often particularisms are big. But we already have in today's law, and in the future we want to highlight this even more, the possibility of cooperation between schools, the creation of joint departments, joint research centres based precisely on the infrastructure that was created in the region. The creation of joint inter-university research centres is a huge challenge and possibility today, but we need to be able to make good use of it. In this new law, we will certainly try to make this kind of integration or consolidation possible. They are also in some sense possible today, although many good consolidation examples would actually be difficult to identify. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u86	Thank you very much. Senator Brodzki... [[Rocki.]] Excuse me, Senator Rocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u87	Minister, the reason for my question is actually what you said earlier about the troubles of the Pedagogical University in Krakow. Namely, wouldn't it be easier to change, correct the statutory requirements for names? I remember the same problems of economic universities. At that time Minister Jurga insisted on saying that the University of Economics in Krakow should not bear this name because it has only 2 powers, one from management, and the other from economics, although in fact there were more of these powers, because each department has several powers, only the same ones, because the Faculty of Economics has management and economics and management also has economics and management, so it is multiple. This is because in the case of the University of Economics, the number of potential powers in the field of economics is not extraordinary. But at the same time, there are universities that don't want to change their names. For me, the classic example is the Mining and Hutnicza Academy, which does not want to be a polytechnic or a university, but is called the Academy even though it has much more powers. The Collegium Civitas is a very good university that doesn't want to be called "Academia," but wants to have a brand that is recognizable on the market. Thus, it may be easier to correct statutory requirements than to roll and extend the deadline for adjustment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u88	I mean, I was talking about the fact that it was one of the arguments to extend the deadline, because we're working on a new bill, and that's exactly what I'm assuming, they're going to be consummated in the new bill, so that we're smarter about this reflection, how this bill worked in 10 years. She, as I said, was mostly positive because she set the bar and many schools, striving to achieve it, were developing. And now it's time for some adjustment, and I assume we will. Of course there are a few. The senator here pointed them out to the precedent places where there are historical names and universities stick to them, because the historical name has its value, often greater than the one which follows from the law. A well-written law should, of course, take this into account and make it possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u89	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Indeed, as Senator Rocki said, I am a representative of the Mining and Steel Academy, so she is kind of double retarded, because not only that the academy is still adjective, which the law clearly distinguishes. True, her English translation adopted by the Senate is: University of Science and Technology, so malicious say mining is science and steel is technology. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. Indeed, here the main discussion focused on the word "university," and we have the feeling that this is a broad concept, like the senator said, that this is a university so full, right? And I would like to quote here precisely that art. 3 (1) (a) 1 says that: The word "university" can be used in the name of a university whose organizational units have the authority to give a doctor's degree in at least ten disciplines, including at least two powers in each of the following classes of science. And these groups of areas are quite extensive. The first group is humanistic, legal, economic or theological sciences. The second group is mathematical, physical, Earth or technical sciences. And the third group is biological, medical, chemical, pharmaceutical, agricultural or veterinary sciences. Indeed, as the Committee on Education and Sports, also as the Senate, we have had problems interpreting this case, which Senator Rocki spoke about. In particular, it's extremely severe. On economics, that universities simply had several powers from the same discipline. But in this respect, some pragmatism has already been established and they are counted separately, although it was not so obvious at first. I'm sure the interesting thread is what the Minister was talking about, which is kind of taking into account habilitation rights as well. We know that this is the full maturity of the academic units and it is extremely important. It is increasingly said that these habilitation powers should involve various far-reaching autonomous cultivations in the field of didactics, etc. This is certainly a good direction, all the more so that we have many very good universities in Poland. As to the amendment of the law, I would like to say yes: indeed, this amendment raises a legitimate objection, but it also has a positive justification. In particular, I would like to quote the opinion of the Sejm, where 417 Members voted in favour of this law, 12 opposed it and 16 abstained. I would like to say how exactly for each individual, that so to say, the political groups spread the votes: Law and Justice - 228 was for, no one was against, no one was against; the Civic Platform - 120 was for, 12 was against, no one abstained; So that's an indication. Second point This has already been mentioned here. The point is that only 11 universities are involved, 11 of which are very many universities, including 6 universities. I'm sure there will be a new law in two years and we're at this transition stage. That's why Senator Rocki's request was to change his art. 3a, rather than the date of entry into force of the Act, seems to be such in this particular situation... 'Cause if it weren't for the announcement As for this bill, and we know that this is not just an announcement, because teams have been selected to develop some ideas for a new law, so something is already happening here... At the same time, as the Minister said, there is progress in gaining the powers required by the article. 3rd of this bill. For some individuals, this progress should be called major progress. At the same time, the Minister informed us at the committee meeting that this state was being monitored on an ongoing basis. It is also worth mentioning here the support of the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland for this amendment. We know that the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland does not always support such controversial projects, and in this case, probably taking into account at least some of these elements which I said And that was before the vote in the Sejm. It supported the proposal. That is why I am applying for a law without amendments and I ask the High House to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wach will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I was one of those two senators who didn't vote against, I mean, they weren't against the bill. I abstained from voting. And today, actually, after this part of the discussion that has been held so far, and after explaining to the Minister, I am willing to vote in favour of the law, because the facts cited concerning non-compliant universities clearly indicate that it is mainly the structure of the powers that are incumbent on these universities, making it difficult for them to comply with the statutory requirements. I'll remind you in a few sentences. Actually, what's in the bill comes from the concept of Professor Jerzy Woźnicki and comes from the period I was the president then. I remember this period very well. When youth pressure and the development of higher education were very intense. At that time, the legislator sought to find certain brakes for university ambitions. Of course, the ambitions themselves are not bad, the development was needed and was not bad, but it was such a period that, first of all, there was a lot of young people, secondly, there was a rush to college and a desire to get a higher education, and then in Poland the number of people who had a higher education, a status related to higher education, was small. And that's why these restrictions were invented in this way. They're not absurd, they're actually reasonable, even with regard to the university, because they show a kind of multi-directionality of the university. Nevertheless, practice has shown that these are defects. The Minister also rightly said that the limitation to doctoral rights only in respect of names was due to the expected relatively close resignation from the degree of doctor-habilitated as a commonly used degree. Rather, it seemed that everything would be going in the direction that was particularly appropriate for Anglo-Saxon universities, where the doctoral degree and international competitions decided to obtain professorships, or that it would, possibly, move on to internal university procedures that are applied at German universities and for example. up to recently in Hungary I don't know what it's like right now. Anyway, I'm sure it's like this. This is evidenced by the resolution of the rectors' conference. The environment recognises that these universities and, above all, those universities, because they are less concerned with dorms, they should not be called "university" for formal reasons, especially since they have a lot of such powers. What should be the course of reform, and what should be changed here? There are many possibilities. I don't think you need to reduce the number. In the first version, as I recall, the permissions for the university were to be ..and it was....and it - 12. - This number has been reduced to 10. But not a number is a problem, the problem is structure, especially in a group of mathematical, physical, earth or technical sciences. In the case of mathematics and physics, there is certainly a difficulty in obtaining these powers, especially for young universities. There's not much I can tell you about earth science. As far as technical science is concerned, in many centres there is competition between universities and universities and universities do not develop these sciences. In the meantime, there are many possibilities in technical science to have powers. Which way do I go, or add up my habilitation rights? It's a pretty strategic decision. 'Cause the question is, isn't we really supposed to quit someday? Is it at this stage? From habilitation as a degree written before the name and required officially and whether it should not be a more internal procedure. Well, there's a lot of possibilities. I think the Ministry will find the right solution in the discussion with the scientific community. 'Cause it's clearly not a challenger's problem. Maybe with the exception of the academy In fact, they are not seen as universities and are trying to change the law on a political basis. In fact, after this discussion, I am willing to vote in favour of this law, although during the committee meeting I abstained because I thought that the committee had taken a very basic position. Not more than a few weeks ago, we accepted the transformation of Gorzów High School into an academy in the absence of any doctoral authority. And I would say that such action, that on the one hand, because of political influence, we are relatively mild and understanding, and on the other hand, very elementary, would be unreasonable. And I actually think we should support this bill. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Mr. Senator Lightning.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I was one of those primal senators, and that's where it sounds like it's coming from and that's where it's coming from. Well, my primacy was based on two points. First of all, it is what I have already said when I asked the Minister, namely that it is the right to do it properly and then enforce it. If it turns out that it is unenforceable, you have to change it, and if it is not enforced, you have to surrender to it. This primality is still within me to make it clear. That's why I have this little split personality, because there's no shadow of doubt that it could exist. And that was the second reason why my primality was so unambiguous and very dangerous and unpleasant signal that maybe would be received not by universities, but by the dorms. I'm sorry, because maybe it's not fair, but it's gotten somewhere. It is not necessary to try, in fact, to remain in such a key as a great method for functioning on the market, in this case on the university market, because the legislator himself gives us such a tool, giving us the opportunity. This, of course, creates a sense of injustice or a sense of certain discomfort in which we will be independent of the outcome of this vote. But as with the split personality, there is, of course, the other side of the medal. And the other side of the coin today has sounded much better, mainly thanks to the Minister, so it is appropriate to thank that this balance in leading the right has been preserved at least. For me it is becoming increasingly apparent that this law, as Professor Wach rightly said, was wise and legitimate in the 1990s, especially in relation to the boom of the higher education institutions, which at that time arose and actually had their logic of existence... among others. there was a huge demand for Masters' titles, which also involved the rapid promotion of people entering the layer of intelligence, in the Polish People's Republic much less percentage than the potential opportunities of the Polish people. It all had its inner logic, the dynamics of the '90s. And on the basis of this dynamic, it was necessary to create somewhere a framework that should legally secure the meaning of the name. Today, however, it is becoming increasingly clear that the continued application of this law in individual cases has consequences such as the creation of unnecessary effort, i.e. it arises as if the opposite reality. The most classic example is not my university, i.e. the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. Although of course I could also talk about it, because it comes out of the times of the Polish People's Republic, changes its name from the Academy of Catholic Theology and has different dynamics of naming and history But KUL, i.e. the university, which was founded in 1919 as the Catholic University of Lublin, also treated in quotes, i.e. as its own name. It's a historical name, and I can't imagine it ever to be changed, regardless of whether the requirements are being met, because that's what the legislator invented for decades. There are sometimes such historical names, as are the white eagle or the white-red flag, and we will not define this from a decade to a decade differently, giving up our basic symbols. KUL belongs to such objects of Polish culture, which can only function under this name. In this connection, it can be said that such a university must exert itself in a direction completely inadequate to the history of the university, in order to meet some requirements that are an episode in history, unlike that of the university. I'm talking about it because I would very much like to ask the Ministry to declare And here are the representatives of the Ministry, with the Vice-Ministers in charge; and I would like to hear it today. That this law, especially in this part, will be subject to such a far-reaching review that we will not be as legislators and those who guard the enforcement of the law, exposed to unnecessary discomfort. And it's not about my private discomfort as Jana Zarin, because it doesn't have to be of interest to anyone, but it's about keeping a certain minimum of values that are important to us. I mean. the value is that there is a law and there is its execution. If the legislator is not able to give the minimum necessary tools to come out of this exercise positively, then there is something about the fact that this law needs to be changed as soon as possible. And we are being rehearsed today, and every verdict will be flawed from the point of view of what could be. And since this Ministry of Science has this background, this possibility of being the initiator of such statutory changes as soon as possible, I would very much appeal that we should not be so rehearsed unnecessarily. Because that's not exactly why we're here. And one last thing: there's no doubt that we need to... A lot of wise people have already been told here, and by Professor Wind, and Professor Wach, about the condition of Polish universities and the history of doctorates and the assumption that there will be no habilitation. Today, as we know, the trend is actually the opposite, i.e. If we're gonna predict something, then the habilitations are just gonna stay. It turned out that they did fulfil some important function. And I would therefore propose another path to meditation, which has already been signalled here. This issue is particularly relevant to universities among the 11 mentioned here many times, such as the University of Szczecin, the University of Białystok and the University of Rzeszów. My point is that the future law should, however, create some greater flexibility regarding a very serious issue, namely building local intelligence. This is a question that we will not solve in a one-dimensional way, and which is extremely important to us from the point of view of regionalism, not only in the historical sense, but above all in the cultural and civilization sense, so to speak. Because this applies to all fields, technical sciences, and humanities. And it's clearly worth talking to the rectors of universities about somewhere, so to speak, bury ambitions and connect universities where such a connection is possible. Olsztyn, the University of Warmia and Mazury, which was founded there, can be an example of this. Such a good element, one might say, was the theology department of the Higher Spiritual Seminary. Turns out you can do something like this. It is precisely about all these local ambitions of people who want to be presidents, deans and directors, but to be smaller. So it is such a proposal and a request for such effort that on the one hand it is possible to keep these universities, which by definition Not because of their own mistakes, but because of other much deeper social causes, they have less chance of being a Jagiellonian University or a Warsaw University. It is not their fault, but this is the social reality resulting from the Polish duration for more than 1 thousand years as a nation. And all these diversitys are visible. So the point is to give these universities a chance, as much as possible. And on the other hand, To encourage and where there is a possibility it is the creation of higher structures, the merger of universities, polytechnics or academy, with such grateful names, that it is the creation of connected universities. So it's one college or one university. The Ministry of Science and Higher Education has such tools and it seems to me that it should make such a review and give a signal to universities, precisely from the so-called Polish provinces, that it is necessary for the interests of the Polish state to maintain these universities in the scientific market at the same time, and not necessarily to adhere strictly to the definition which, as you can see today, needs to be revised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! If I hadn't spoken, I would have been one of the few academics who didn't take part in this discussion. I would like to make my view clear. Well, I share the views put forward by the rapporteur, as well as the Minister on the direction of the proposed changes. Where did this come from? Of course, in the past, creating this law, some common denominator was adopted to include all universities. Unfortunately, some of the universities failed to meet these conditions during that period. It was therefore necessary to amend these provisions so that the acquired rights could continue to serve these universities. What else would I like to say in my brief statement? The fact that these problems that we are dealing with here at the moment may not be easy for representatives of non-academic environments. This is our case inside. By the way, by the way, ad vocem, to Professor Żaryn: speaking of creating this local intelligence, I don't think you meant your university, which is established in Warsaw. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Wind. The discussion is closed. Let me inform you that the vote... Uh-huh. As a request has been made, which I have just informed you about, I would like to ask whether a representative of the government would like to respond to the request made by Senator Wind. [[Voice from the room: This is a motion to adopt a law without amendments.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Alexander Bobko: What is the conclusion?]] [[About the party...]] Yeah, for the bill to be passed...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u98	I support him.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u99	Thank you. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 179 and the report of the Commission In print No 179 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Scientific, Education and Sports Committee on 2 June this year. She considered the Higher Education Act and the Higher Education Act and some other laws... May I quote the exact wording: it is the Law of 20 May 2016 amending the Law on Higher Education and the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. This is senate print number 179. This law concerns the introduction of a uniform anti-plagiarism system. The law is based on the need to correct existing irrationalities, the fact that each university had to create an anti-Plagiarism system in its own scope. It should be stressed that the anti-plagiarism system, the uniform anti-plagiarism system referred to in the Act, will be set up at the expense and at the initiative of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, with the law allowing the Minister responsible for Higher Education to commission its development to a research institute supervised by the Minister responsible for Science, whose subject matter is closely linked to the provision of IT services, providing funding for this purpose. At the same time, the Act extends the duration of the university's obligation for anti-plagiarism systems to 31 December 2018. It should be stressed that this change will result in significant savings, and of course it will be better to carry out this task, because together we know that much more can be done. The repository that will arise, and these tools will certainly be at the highest level. This is the case at least because of the conditions contained in this Act. At the same time, I would like to say that the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland gave a positive opinion on the draft law. To conclude this report, I would like to say that the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on 2 June this year supported the adoption of this law without amendment. I would also like to say that the committee's vote on this matter was unanimous. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, I ask the High Senate to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Ambrosik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u102	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. What entity will create this system? Who will be responsible for the creation and possible administration or security of this system?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u103	Mr. Senator, according to the bill... Well, the bill here only sets out certain legal possibilities, and you're asking for technical details that the law doesn't specify. The Act says this: The University is obliged to check written diploma papers before the diploma exam using the Single Anti-Plagiarism System. At the same time, in the next entry he says: The Minister responsible for Higher Education runs the Single Anti-Plagiarism System, cooperating with the nationwide repository of written diploma work and provides universities with free use of this system. And there is also what I have already mentioned in quite detail, i.e. that the development and administration of the system of the Minister responsible for Higher Education may instruct the research institute supervised by the Minister responsible for Science, whose subject matter is closely linked to the provision of information systems services, providing financial resources for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u104	I would just like to ask you: will this system also be subject to diploma work, which was defended earlier, or... [[After 2009]] Oh, after 2009...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u105	I mean, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is that universities have been obliged to collect written and diploma works since 2009, so it can be seen that this repository can be or should be powered by this work. The answer to the question about earlier periods also about other, so to speak, work is so difficult that, ladies and gentlemen... The problem here is not a technical problem, but copyright. That is, the authors of these certified works wrote appropriate statements that they agree to use their work on certain fields of use. And now the absence of such a statement can cause a number of legal proceedings. That's why it seems Although at the moment, I can't quote accurate data. It is this year 2009 that this is the time since this diploma work should be collected in electronic form and with appropriate permissions to use it in the anti-Plagiarism system, so to speak. [[After September 30th...]] [[Thank you, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u106	Thank you very much. Since there are no further questions, I would like to inform you that the bill has been filed by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes. Piotr Dardziński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, was authorized to present the position of the government. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present on behalf of the government a position which is a support for the parliamentary project. This is a project that responds to the rationalisation of governance On both the IT side and the financial side, the process of checking work in the anti-plagiarism system. And actually, because the senator has already put forward all the arguments that support the introduction of this system, I would just like to Thank you for the unanimous support of the draft law in committee It is important to highlight one fact. The introduction of the Single Anti-Plagiarism System is possible thanks to the use of public resources available to the Polish state. For this reason, it does not raise costs radically and allows us to benefit from what we have and at the same time relieves, which is very important, both public and non-public universities. Because the Single Anti-Plagic System will be made available free of charge to all individuals involved in the higher education process, which will facilitate and relieve higher education. I would therefore like to thank you very warmly for your support and, at the same time, on behalf of the government, to declare support for this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Rocki was the first to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Probably as the only senators I intensively used several anti-Plagiarism systems, which was due to the fact that the Ministry of Science and Higher Education bought a license for the Polish Accreditation Commission for the use of several systems. And that's why I'm against only one system. Because the existence of several competing systems on the market would create a natural desire to improve these systems, it would be a natural motivation to create newer versions that combat ever-newer pathologies that will emerge. I'm so worried that if there's one system, he'll be easier to override or fight. For this reason, I do not think that the existence of one system is ideal. I've been using several systems and I know systems with different philosophies. And since there were different philosophies, there were also various reports that provided a wealth of information about diploma work. For this reason, I think it would be better if several such tools were in place, of course only to help fight potential pathologies. Because the system itself, which only gives information that some part of the work is similar to other works collected in the relevant repositories, is only an introduction to the analysis. The analysis itself must be carried out in an informed manner by academics. It seems to me that the functioning of these systems gave students information that it was not worth doing plagiarism, and teachers and the Polish Accreditation Commission gave them a tool to check whether the procedures at universities were followed and implemented in such a way as to guarantee the independence of the creation of diploma works. Knowing that this law will be adopted, I have only an appeal to the operator, who will then apply the Single Anti-Plagiarism System, so that already at the enforcement level it is possible to check not only the diploma work, but also all the written work created by students in the course of their studies. Because these systems, which are currently functioning, give us the opportunity. In short, it teaches students that it is not worth creating plagiarisms, because already in the first year of studies work is checked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This law is, of course, very necessary, and I have no doubt about it, although I will also have a proposal for an amendment which concerns the strengthening of the intention of this law. But before I talk about it, first of all, I'm going to put two things forward. One historical one, the other resulting from the proposed law. Namely, the historical issue is that we do not focus our attention in a special way on students who are to be, of course, authors of their bachelor's, master's, and chosen ones. Also doctoral, just to focus on those, I apologize for that term, thieves who have been stealing people's thoughts and their effects, who are plagiarists for decades. Today, some of them can be mentioned by name because they were able to prove this practice, but for many decades they functioned with impunity, and as a historian who deals with recent history, I dare say that their remaining in impunity was a patrimony of the Polish People's Republic. It is important to be clear that those students whom we would like to brand today are unfortunately receiving from society. Perhaps still today they receive such signals that functioning in pathology is profitable, that in fact they turn a blind eye, as in the Polish People's Republic was accepted, and maybe even were for this and ideal reasons, to go on a stowaway or otherwise to cheat. Meanwhile, it was a pathology which to some extent influenced the credibility of Polish science, i.e. it lowered the credibility of Polish science, and on the other hand created a very clear tendency to multiply generational pathology. And it has to be made clear. It is not the current students who are the source of this pathology, it is our generation and people older than us who have given it to our students. And now we have to get out of this and take responsibility for it. Our generation must do this in a clear way, so that there is no shadow of doubt that students will be aware that today in Poland it is not worth being a thief, just as it was worth being a thief in the Polish People's Republic. It must be a clear signal, changing our approach to heritage. In this case, it is negative. The second point, relating to this law in a very strict manner. I mentioned this during the committee meeting, in Professor Rocky's statement, I sensed that perhaps he meant it too. We as people connected to universities know perfectly well 'Cause we know anti-Plagiarism systems from practice. It is not easy to operate anti-Plagiarism systems. It's not easy in the sense that this is just the starting material for analysis, so you said, Mr. Rector, it needs analysis. There is no simple answer to the question whether something is or is not a plagiarist. There is information expressed in percentage and in figures concerning the use of either accidental or non-accidental The expression, the words, the whole line of thought or even the chapters of someone else's book. And now the problem is that in those systems that work... Well, at least I have a problem with that. And I don't want to count myself as the dumbest people on earth, let's just say I'm somewhere in the random average, and I'm in a lot of trouble about it, and so I'm calling and I'm still asking the ministry, following the bill that we're investigating, to create a training system, which is a system that supports the entry into force of this single system. It's hard to rule out by law, so I'd rather take it as an appeal than something that could be in the form of some kind of legal provision... But without a doubt... It seems to me that such trainings must be renewed so as to give an opportunity to make this provision work where it can additionally require this effectiveness, precisely through it at once such a natural ability to use a certain good, in this case a tool. And last but not least. Namely, I have a feeling that either accidentally or not, I hope that accidentally this law was created a dangerous gap, a gap that I would like to fill by submitting an amendment to this law. This proposal is here, in my hands, and it concerns a transitional period; I spoke about it during the committee meeting. I feel like it's coming into force. This date is understood by the Single Anti-Plagic System on 31 December 2018 as an exemption for those who are on the run, i.e. The train's off and they're gonna want to get off the train on the way out. In order to protect myself against such a possibility, I propose an amendment which reads as follows: "The universities which use anti-plagiarism programmes on the date of the entry into force of the Act to check written diploma work before the diploma examination in accordance with the "Authorities" are listed here in the current version to check the work on the basis of these programmes until the date of the launch of the Single Anti-Plagiarity System. I will make this amendment officially and it seems to me that at least one problem related to this law will be solved through its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. We've exhausted the list of senators recorded... [[Mr. Marshal, I volunteered.]] Oh, Mr. Senator Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In fact, I would love to engage here in polemics with Professor Żaryn, because I represent technical sciences and promoted many dozens of works. Maybe it's the specificity of technical sciences that there's much less scope for plagiarism. I think that always in plagiarism practices an important figure was the promoter, because yet his supervision, care, insight... After all, a promoter working with a diplomat simply sees every word that is foreign. I had one case when a student was actually living outside our region and perhaps from here there were noticeable influences of other thinking, because there are also different schools in the field of technology. I was in charge of reconfiguring systems in FPGA. These layouts are dealt with by the Warsaw University of Technology, they are dealt with by the Silesian University of Technology, but each one deals with them in a slightly different style, and this approach can already be seen in such a diploma work. But that's not the purpose of my speech. Senator Rocki has already left, but I must say that I do not agree with what Senator Rocki was talking about in the context of the competition of commercial companies in this area. I think that better use of resources and also financial resources is extremely important. Synergy with good use of what we have is amazing. I have to tell you about it. I know it from an autopsy. What in Poland has been done in the field of IT infrastructure for science. 22 centres from all over Poland are cooperating in the construction of a computer network with extremely high capacity, and it could actually be said that it could be done by commercialisation, only that universities and scientific units would cost 10 times more, while at the same time significantly worse parameters. The same applies, of course, to computers with high computing power. A separate issue is the life and operation of these systems. After all, the algorithms that will be used there are one of the important fragments of science, constantly developed, still important, extremely alive. I think what I'm going to say has inspired us to take the floor, probably for decision makers or future performers, but I'm going to say that the mechanism for constantly modifying these algorithms should be introduced from the start. It's like hackers, right? They race, often with themselves. So this mechanism still, this algorithm must be alive. I must say that these issues are so close to me that my research team in the scientific sense deals with these issues and there were temptations to create some kind of commercial tool. I was basically holding it back, and I told you not to do it. Because, ladies and gentlemen, such a commercial product requires a completely different service. As long as it is scientific, uncompercial, we can end up with publications or patents, while commercialism requires a completely different service. It must be said that these are not only simple mechanisms for searching for similarities between texts, but also content, and they do not only concern anti-Plagiarism systems. They're built, for example. automatic support systems for the completion of scientific literature. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, The algorithms are exactly the same. It is therefore important to see that it is not only the construction of this system, but also its operation later, also the protection of the repository. Well, I don't want to be accused of some kind of behavior, but this repository is the source of plagiarism. So how do you make sure it's not, right? Continuously modified and these trainings. But training is a little bit of an understatement. It must be... I don't know if it's 24/7, but at least a 12-hour online shift so that everyone can call, anyone can write, because that's a complete set. I must say that methods are being developed to analyze signatures, where there is a certain compression of content to extract the essence of things from this text, not just a description of it. It's not just a matter of someone putting in extra spaces or white letters that you can't see when you print the paper. It's an old method, it was done at first, but also the question of how to automatically support the promoter in such a more advanced analysis. Due to these elements, which I have said, the guarantee of a very extensive, very professional activity, however, should be the structure of the state. I often call for the IT infrastructure of science to be included in the strategic infrastructure of the state. Same... The anti-plagiarism system may not be the strategic infrastructure of the State, but it is certainly the strategic infrastructure of the Ministry of Higher Education, because we are talking mainly about this segment, and that is why I think that the single system is a really very good pull. I think it would be necessary to look at how many more places in Poland where you waste money on them of the best quality service, while it could be done differently. I was talking about this yesterday in questions during the examination of the Public Procurement Act, but this matter is so extensive and complex that I didn't want to make it difficult anymore. But there are sources there, too. Of course, here I also declare my support as a representative of 5 high computing computing computing centers whose competence in this area is known. So that this collaboration with science, this continuous renewal is a guarantee and a response to the concerns that Senator Rocki spoke about; it is a pity that he is not and he does not hear it. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. At the same time, I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Żaryn. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Yes. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'll brief you on what Senator Wind just said. Indeed, the introduction of a single anti-Plagiarism system does not preclude private entrepreneurs from simultaneously developing alternative anti-Plagiarism schemes, which also serve to verify or verify copyright sources, e.g. in books, in various publications, in magazines, in newspapers, in other media. Thus, in addition to the purely diploma work, there is a very large market in which other anti-Plagiarism systems can operate, and in this respect the Ministry will not prohibit the use of other systems by universities or individual promoters. We are here to guarantee a certain strategic security of both the data that are in the ORPD and what is in the universities. Based on what Senator Żaryn said, I'm going to say that actually the main cost of creating a uniform anti-Plagiarism system is a set of actions so-called. soft, the most important element of which is training. So the real essence of building this system apart from the algorithm, apart from what will directly interact with the ORPD, is to build into this infrastructure also soft competences on the side of promoters, on the side of the university. And this is Once again developing and confirming what Senator Wind said It's a permanent job. This system is built in this way, this program is designed to update, develop, run this arms race with those who will try to create anti-Plagiarisms, and also train those who will use this system. The fact that this system should be as user-friendly as possible does not mean that I do not need to talk about it, I consider it to be obvious, which is the basis for the functioning of IT programs. Thanking you for your attention to this legal gap, I would like to say that according to the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, according to the state of knowledge we have, and after a thorough analysis of these provisions there is no gap, because after this amendment, this will remain the same as it is. So if universities are now checking, then they can keep checking, we in this respect We're not changing anything. [[Can they or must they?]] Yeah, now they can check. The primary condition, before the shift, is that it allows it, and some of the universities are doing it. If we had introduced an amendment that forced universities to do so, we would actually have overturned the whole point of the amendment, because it is moving the deadline for imposing an obligation to check everyone. So the current state of affairs is that it is not non-binding, it is optional: you can check part of the work, you can check all the work, the decision belongs to the university. What we're trying to do is to postpone the imposition of mandatory checks on all the work. If we don't reschedule this term, we won't have a unified anti-plagia system. It's kind of connected. [[So this amendment isn't...]] I would not like to go too far, but I would be very grateful if the senator could possibly consider whether this amendment is necessary. It seems to us, if I may ask for such trust, I have already consulted on it, we have thought deeply about it... Under no circumstances would we want to demotivate universities, we want them already to check to the extent they consider it appropriate, and this legal condition, which is presented in our amendment, guarantees, does not prevent them from doing so, but of course the decision is the decision of the senator. Thank you very much. [[I'd like to talk about a formal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u116	About the formal Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u117	I'd like to ask you a question like that. I understand that until this point is closed, the senator could possibly withdraw this amendment, but if the Marshal says he's closing, then no, so that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u118	But we still have a committee meeting, and as I understand it, we will discuss the point of this amendment. I brought it in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u119	Good. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Research Institutes. The text of the Act is contained in print No 181 and the report of the Commission In print No 181 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Jan Zarin, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee at its meeting on 2 June 2016 recognised the Law on amending the Law on Research Institutes and in the course of the discussion and the discussion was quite lively. Let me just say in brief that, in general, the purpose of the law, essentially the main and, you can say, which fills the vast majority of the content, is to strengthen the supervision of the Minister supervising research institutes. At the stage of work in the Sejm, the law included all research institutes, but there, in the Sejm, was a very important amendment limiting this supervision only to state research institutes. And in this shape... As far as the Higher House is concerned... Several issues were particularly raised during the discussion. Undoubtedly, Mr Leszek Rafalski, Chairman of the General Council of Research Institutes, gave a speech as far as possible on the criticism of the provisions related to the amendment of the Law on Research Institutes. He stressed the obvious issue of the existence of freedom of research. In this regard, it was first of all that the state control, although to some extent necessary, was too far-reaching in this law. In the context that you later raised Professor Wach... This was mostly about two things. The first point is the choice of the person running the state research institute, and especially the point concerning the guarantees, i.e. the keyword, which has become the basis for criticism of this point. It was found that And so did Mr. Rafalski, and Mr. Senator Wach. De facto, this gives the Minister of Higher Education unlimited opportunity not to accept a candidate as head of a research institute until the Institute would have chosen a candidate to meet the requirements In this sense, the Minister of Science and Higher Education also has to meet these non-essential requirements concerning loyalty. And the second charge that was raised... It was also mostly Professor Rafalski and Professor Wach; it was about not a completely understandable desire to transfer the authority of the Minister also to choose the deputies, when logic indicates that the leader of the individual himself should choose the closest collaborators. Others participating in this committee meeting, among others. I, in a little elegant way, stressed that there is no obligation to be an employee of a state research institute, and certain loyalty and fulfilment of scientific obligations to the needs of the state are a very important sense of the existence of state research institutes. Therefore, such supervision should be, of course, substantive, but also the result of the selection of persons who will direct this specific, one or another, institute. Of course, all the participants in the debate stressed, and in the committee it was clear that the freedom of scientific research is not the subject of this law at all, it is guaranteed, it is beyond any discussion or doubt, and the use of these arguments is not only inappropriate, but it is quite disturbing the logic of the arguments. Three amendments were tabled as a result of the discussion. The amendment by Professor Wach, which follows the material prepared by the legislative team, was rejected in order to recognise that this pool of opportunities for the Minister of Science and Higher Education should be reduced in terms of the appointment of a candidate as director of the State Research Institute or its alternates. In Professor Wach's amendment, as I recall, there was also a provision for refusing to appoint a director to be justified. I understand it's also justified in writing. This would also mean that the ministry would be held back from misuse of the instrument it has. On the other hand, two amendments have been accepted, albeit incoherently. I believe both amendments were made by Professor Wind. The first is to restore the basic provision and to leave the word State in Article. 1 point 1 of the Act, i.e. not the State Research Institute, but the Research Institute. The second amendment, which was highly indisputable, consisted in not using the word "decision," merely assigning another person from among the Deputy Director and other staff meeting the conditions, or, as regards the appointment of the Executive Director, to appoint a person from among the Deputy Director and other staff to perform the duties of Deputy Director. The idea was that the word "destiny" should be included and not "decision" should be taken, since this wording has further legal implications. As for this amendment, there was no doubt that it was justified. The law is therefore being presented today in this form, asking the committee to adopt two amendments. And for the entire bill to be passed as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Wach, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u122	I'd like to... Perhaps it would be enough to answer from the point of view. I should have asked at the committee meeting, but I didn't notice... I mean, in art. 25 is given the composition of the competition committee and it is written there, among others.: one person designated by the Committee. ♪ ♪ by the big ♪ ♪ by the big ♪ ♪ by the big ♪ ♪ by the big ♪ ♪ by the But I don't really know what committee it's about. I didn't ask about it, there's no explanation, there's no explanation in the single text, there's no word anymore, and there's no dictionary. So, if a representative of the Ministry were to say what is one person indicated by the Committee, more specifically, what kind of committee is it...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u123	Thank you. I inform you that undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Mr Leszek Sirko, has been authorized to present the position of the government. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u124	This is the Committee for the Evaluation of Scientific Units. This provision in all its scope is contained in the Act in question and later the abbreviation That's why it says so. [[Voice from the room: And so it was.]] And it was. So nothing changes around here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u125	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u126	Thank you very much. In the case of this law, I am much less conciliatory than when it came to higher education laws. In my reception and after the discussion that took place... First of all, according to the wording of the Act, it is mainly a staff law, which is used to exchange directors of institutes, where the Minister will want to do so. In fact, we have heard both in the report and in the justifications about strengthening supervision. This is undoubtedly the case, but it is a kind of euphemism, because in fact the text of the law in the vast majority concerns actually the exchange of directors or the change of the director of the institute. Art. 1 the amended law actually allows the Minister to revoke the former Director in the event of a reorganisation of the State Institute consisting of a change in the subject matter or scope of its operation. Well, it's harder with the subject, but the scope of the action is very easy to change, it's no art. I won't dwell on it. In addition, Minister... There's a contest committee, and I was asking a question about it. In this committee, ministers have the advantage of the people appointed by them at all. Because, as I understand it, this contest committee consists of five people. Only that 1 person is from the indication of the Scientific Council, 1 from the indication of the Evaluation Committee And that's what I asked, I already know. The Minister responsible for Science also introduces one representative and 2 introduces the Minister for Supervision. So this contest committee is actually a government committee. Despite the fact that this is the composition of this committee and even though it is in the article. 24 it is written that the competition committee shall present to the minister supervising candidates meeting the requirements of the competition, a further provision, in point (a). b, says that in the case of a State Research Institute, the Supervisory Minister does not appoint a Director in several cases. As for the first one, I have no doubt: a contest conducted in violation of the law. Second case: none of the candidates submitted by the competition committee meets the requirements of the competition. There's actually kind of a contradiction with the previous entry. The committee presents... As a result, the Minister has no confidence in his committee. The government has three men in five, they're supposed to meet the requirements, and the minister in case... Okay, but it's security. But it's already weird. But the biggest reservation This is what the rapporteur, Senator rapporteur, was talking about, and I, at the committee meeting, raised this and asked for a change. It raises the record: none of the candidates submitted by the competition committee gives the guarantee of proper performance of the Institute's tasks. That actually sounds logical, because candidates should give such a guarantee, only that's what this committee is for, and she's formed as the minister wanted, because he has three people in it... And what, they still don't give you any guarantees? This tool is simply that if the minister doesn't like something, he may not appoint it. And that would have to be written straight. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm already overlooking a minor matter that the minister is interfering... interfering or not interfering, but he may interfere with the matter of the deputy director, which I believe is a puriazum. And he's also appointed. Well, that's okay. Because of this critical attitude towards this law, which I consider to be a staff law, because it actually gives tools to exchange before some reform of directorial institutes in a actually completely arbitrary manner, I have legislative proposals that I will submit in a moment. I would just like to say this first: the minister has the right, and that is understandable, to put the task of a state institute and to require something from this institute, because that is why this institute is. During the committee meeting it was said that the minister was paying for the institute, so he would like to have results. But is such an administrative intrusion that directors are exchanged as they wish, including alternates, a method to achieve scientific results or practical results? I don't think so. It seems to me that we have actually worked out methods such as creating teams, such as grants, as a whole set of possibilities for positive shaping or results requirements. It's so administrative and this surveillance is so direct that it's either to scare people or to mention that I just don't agree. The main board, represented at the committee meeting by Professor Rafalski, and tabled amendments, as Professor Wind rightly pointed out, and spoke completely freely. Only that the situation in which the head of the main board is present is extremely uncomfortable, because he presents a critical opinion in which he must hold back, because he or other members of the board can be mentioned as soon as the law enters into force. This can't be right. Such changes should take place with some delay or from the next term of office. It shouldn't be that the person who gives the opinion Wanting not to, even if he didn't confess He's embarrassed because he can get fired immediately, how hard he's gonna criticize it, and yet he's criticized. I ask you, therefore, to make 2 legislative proposals: the first is a motion to reject the law, and the second application, which I make in the event that the latter is not accepted, is a request to delete the provision concerning the possibility that the results of the competition may not be accepted by the Minister, which is linked to the failure to properly fulfil the Institute's tasks. Because the institute should carry out its tasks, but such a general wording can be applied too easily and is, I would say, not sufficiently defined. These are my amendments, Mr. Marshal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't think anybody else came forward for discussion. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have made a legislative proposal in writing, Senator Wach. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? No... As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to this proposal... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Leszek Sirko: I mean...]] But the Minister wants to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Leszek Sirko: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u128	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'd like to narrow it down a little bit here. Well, the law on amending the Law on Research Institutes is really about state research institutes. We have 115 research institutes, but there are only 17 state research institutes, and these are institutes that carry out particularly important tasks for the planning and implementation of state policy; little of this, they receive special targeted grants from the state budget for their implementation. Although it is a parliamentary law, here in this area and in this area, we believe that it is necessary to strengthen the control of these institutes and those specific tasks which must be carried out by institutes must be supervised by the supervising minister. At this point in time, there are in principle no mechanisms that allow the supervising minister to enforce the activities of the Institute in accordance with the intentions of the Ministry. It is often the case that research institutes pass from one ministry to another. This is an inconvenient situation for both scientific institutions and ministries themselves. In such a situation, it must also be possible to reorganize the institute and reflect on what the profile of the change and the profile of the institute itself should be. Therefore, we believe that the amendments made by the Senate Committee on Science, Education and Sport are justified and I do not see any particular reason to repeal them or to introduce others. These amendments are precisely governed by the rules and regulations that should exist in relation to state research institutes. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u129	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act establishing the Academy of War Arts. The text of the law is contained in print No 177 and the report of the committee In print No 177 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the National Defence Committee, Senator Rafał Silesian, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u130	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I was honoured to present to you the Act on the establishment of the Academy of War Arts, Sejm No. 460, after the Seym No. 517; Senate Print No. 177. This piece of legislation is a government submission. After the editorial amendments in the Seym, he was sent to the Senate. I think it is possible to share the recent opinion that military education requires undoubtedly a comprehensive reform, because it is the most delayed in transformation part of the Armed Forces in the Republic of Poland. It is therefore hardly surprising that the Ministry of National Defence is proposing a project for the establishment of the Academy of War Arts. The established university is, first of all, to be a base for strategic studies for the Polish army, with a teaching and research offer in the field of social sciences related to the security and defence of the state, in compliance with the art of war; second, to respond to current and prospective needs of the Armed Forces and contemporary threats; thirdly, it is to prepare and improve professionally the command, staff and logistics of the Armed Forces of all levels of command, also to educate civilians, especially from the area of public administration and local government, in areas of state security. The intention of the legislator is to make it a modern, expert centre, developing diagnosis, analysis, query, synthesis on geopolitical and military situations, taking advantage of the best national and foreign experience, with the best staff, with the best organizational solutions. In short, it is intended to strengthen the intellectual potential of the Armed Forces. In order to achieve this purpose, the Act introduces a strong link between universities and the Minister for National Defence, so that quick and flexible relations can be made in response to the changing educational needs of the Armed Forces, both quantitative and programmed. The Minister will be able to apply for an extension of the university's programme offer, and his consent will also be necessary for the establishment of courses of studies initiated at the Academy. This purpose is particularly served by the provisions of the Article. 1 paragraph 4, Article 2 (2) 4 and 6 of the proposed bill presented. The name of the new university refers to the College of Wars of the pre-war forge of officers. The Academy will be built on the basis of the National Defence Academy. The project regulates matters related to the continuity of educational and scientific activities of the academy, with personal matters, including detailed regulation of the situation of the staff of the Academy of National Defence, describes the rules of transfer of powers, property rights and property rights and introduces regulations regarding the functioning of the university during the transitional period. The Defence Commission at its meeting on 8 June dealt with the draft law. After hearing the Minister for Defence's reasons, the committee took note of the position of the Legislative Bureau, which proposed a legislative amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 on a comprehensive evaluation of scientific activities In fact, a similar proposal was also made during the work of the Sejm. By requesting the codification of terminology within a single field of cases and the introduction of an equivalent entry into the law for the provision in the Law on the Principles for the Financing of Science. In the opinion of the Minister, the text to date is better suited to the intentions of the legislator. It should also be noted that this paragraph contains a direct delegation to the Science Financing Act, so there is no risk of confusion as to the assessment. The National Defence Committee, in a vote in which six senators were in favour, one abstained, no one opposed, adopted a resolution recommending that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u131	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I'd like to ask the question, Senator. What's the difference? And how would you characterize it between the future academy and the current Academy of General Staff... [[National Defense...]] I'm sorry. What's the difference between the present National Defence Academy and the one that's supposed to be created... [[National Defense Academy.]] ...the Academy of War Arts. [[The General Staff Academy is in Moscow.]] And I thought it was in Brussels. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Now in Brussels...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u132	Mr. Marshal, I think the difference... Of course, in many places... [[What are the fundamental differences?]] Well, as far as legal issues are concerned, and in this matter we are turning around, the fundamental difference is that, as I mentioned in my speech, the link between this academy and the Minister of National Defence will now be stronger. In contrast to what it looks like in the current situation, the Minister of Defence will be able to initiate certain programme changes in the work of the new Academy of War Arts, and will need his approval to make certain programme changes on his own initiative, which has not yet taken place. Therefore, it can be assumed that the flexibility of the National Defence Academy has so far been lower due to the lack of correlation and that the response to the needs of the armed forces has been weaker. As a result of the very high risk dynamics around Poland, a flexible response to this is needed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u133	Thank you very much. Any more questions? Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u134	Is there any autonomy for this academy? Well, it's a teaching and learning unit. If so, how? This is set out in the bill, since you say that this academy will now be more closely linked to the minister? That's the first question. And the other. During the committee's work I understand that you participated in the meeting, since you are the rapporteur, was there any mention of anticipated staff changes due to the change in the profile of this university? Who will be at the head of the scientific staff or the commander? Can you get us into the secrets of this transformation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u135	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u136	As far as the autonomy of the university is concerned, of course, this academy - which is enshrined in Article. 1 paragraph It is a military university acting under the Law on Higher Education and there are appropriate provisions concerning the autonomy of the University. But because it's a military college As referred to in Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, this Regulation shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Regulation. 1 paragraph It is a military unit at the same time. Art. 2 provides for the connection between this university and the Minister for National Defence. As far as staff changes are concerned, in response, of course, to the envisaged change in the structure of the university, it is necessary to match the staff with the tasks that the university would perform, and to the purposes that it would have to carry out, and this is described in the article. 5, which outlaws that: the soldiers of the National Defence Academy are serving at the Academy of National Defence; the staff of the National Defence Academy become employees of the Academy of National Defence, of course, is the shortened name of the Academy of War Art students, PhD students, students and students respectively become students, PhD students, students, students and students of the Academy; the same applies to those admitted to doctoral studies. So that, in this respect, I think, there's security. This is, of course, combined with regulation, which will allow for a relatively flexible and rapid adjustment of staff resources to the proposed university profile. As regards the superior authorities of the academy, in this respect it is still described by the law on higher education, i.e. the rector appointed by the Minister of National Defence, as well as the pro-Rector for Military Affairs. [[For a term of office...]] I mentioned in my speech that the Act also describes issues concerning the so-called. the transitional period. This transition period will allow the newly established Academy of War Art to hold elections that will establish the democratic and fully autonomous functioning of the new academy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u137	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would Minister Wojciech Fałkowski like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: If you are a marshal...]] If you'd like, go ahead. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The rapporteur has presented the whole issue in a full and very competent manner, for which I thank him especially. I think I can only complete some things, I mean. Two points I would like to highlight in particular. Namely, the first issue that emerged in Senator Rulewski's question is the question of academic freedoms. I would like to say that I, too, am attached to academic freedoms, which, however, cannot argue with the principles of fulfilling the mission and achieving a certain level of teaching, scientific and expert by each university and every scientific institute. I want to make it clear that the university in Rembertów, the Academy of War Arts, will be fully subject to the law on higher education after the transition period. The second point is that military universities differ from civil public universities, that among their tasks they have a very clear one task, a mission to fulfil, namely shaping the character and attitudes of students, sick people and all students attending them. At public universities this is not required, and even is accepted and fully supported by certain differences, the action, so to speak, as part of some opposition or even a contest of the cultural system, the code of values. At military universities we want to make it clear: the code of values associated with patriotism, with moral attitudes must apply. And that's what we want from both military students and students. The Polish Army officers are referred to here. • who at this university will carry out training courses. And that is why it is not indifferent whether and to what tradition school, university refers: whether it is the tradition of the University of War and this generation, which was formed and educated by this university, and then passed the heaviest exam during World War II and in service of Poland, or the reference to the Academy of General Staff the name of General General of arms of Karol Świerczewski and to all this... Mr. Marshal's mistake is justified because for many years this academy has been the Academy of General Staff for them. General Charles Świerczewski. And we want to be clear that this is not a tradition that we want to refer to, this is not a tradition that allows us to shape the moral attitudes and patriotic attitudes of students. Hence, of course, there is also a need for this institutional memory and certain mental and organisational structures to be cut very clearly, not only to change, but also to cut through. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u139	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. Minister, I'm sorry, I'm inviting you back here because there are questions for you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u140	Minister, thank you for referring to my previous question. I have a question of this kind... At this academy, I think, students from outside Poland will also be able to study, as our citizens study in allied academies there. It's true, isn't it? And it will be difficult to define what you emphasized, namely patriotism. How are you going to solve this? How do you plan to do that, especially as alliances change; not only do they change in politics, but also in alliances change. And the second more difficult question is that you can avoid answering them, even though you yourself have started this discussion. There will be a sieve at this academy that will separate the seed from the chaff, I understand, the legions of Świerczewski from the legions. Who? Is it Piłsudski or Sikorski? Because there were problems... [[Which Świerczewski?]] You mentioned... you referred to World War II... Well, the walters too... Of course, I do not defend them and this tradition... that they go to free Poland with full conviction. How are you gonna solve this? Is there gonna be some kind of moral selection board or some sort of template that you're gonna have to go through? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u141	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u142	Thank you very much. First question. I want to make it clear that the basis for the program and the way it works, the operation of any organ of the Academy of War Arts, like any respected university in the world, will not be affected by more or less by the presence of foreign students. They, when choosing this university, accept it with all their luggage, which does not mean that we will require them to have a perfect knowledge of Dąbrowski's Mazurka and attachment to tradition, history and Polish values. They'll have to respect it when they come to us for science or scholarship, but they won't have to confess. That's the difference that I think is important and basically important to distinguish. Second question. We want to make it clear that this generation, which passed the exam during the September campaign and later during World War II, is a generation of Polish officers, several hundred facades of the Higher War School. And that's the tradition we're going to be referring to. I haven't heard anything about Świerczewski's legions. There weren't any legions like that... [[What about the Walter teams?]] The Walter teams are completely different. So we're not going to refer to this tradition. What I want to say is that what General Rola-Żymierski created and what later gave effect in the form of general staff academy by, like, the collapse of the first university... or actually gave effect in the form of the National Defence Academy by kind of breaking the general staff academy with the military political academy, the politicians, that's the baggage that I want to say clearly. It is neither a traditional nor a program and a profile of the Academy of War Arts. I want to make it clear that the staff changes will, of course, be, and it will not be changes for individuals, it is natural, but there will be no template. The Minister for National Defence will neither personally nor by his alternates carry out a personal assessment of each employee. That's out of his league. There's no reason for that. There are employees who will be appointed by the rector for the first period Only the first, because later they will come from the choice Dean and Director of Institutes. They will make the choice of employees, as well as recruitment of new people for their qualifications, moral attitudes, intellectual level, biography and patriotic behaviour. And if someone is honest, competent and wants to serve Poland, then I do not see any restrictions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u143	Thank you, Minister. Oh, Mr. Senator Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u144	I, Minister, do not know much about military skills, but I would like to know from you whether the National Defence Academy has been ill-educated in the last 10 or 15 years. Is there any objection to that? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: May I now, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u145	Yeah, yeah. Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u146	Mr. Senator, the question is absolutely legitimate and does not really concern the military, but concerns a higher education institution that serves the needs of the military. I want to say in an official and formal way that we did two audits before we went into action. 2 independent expert teams have carried out an external evaluation of the National Defence Academy. One team was an expert company specialized in evaluation of teaching and teaching institutions. The second team consists of six experts from the General Staff of the HR and the General Command of the Armed Forces Genesis. In the first case almost 60 pages of the report were created. These are, of course, largely descriptive reports. In the second case, that's 250 pages. And these were 2 different reports assessing the quality of education and the level of research conducted by the university. I would like to say that in the first case, when it comes to an external expert firm, the evaluation concerned primarily the functioning of a public educational institution. That's how they put it and emphasized... I'll give you five main conclusions. The main teaching effort is aimed at teaching civilian students. There were 8,000 of them. There weren't any military students, and so far there aren't. Because we're still at this stage. There is no strategy for university development. The scientific activities of the Academy of National Defence are primarily national in nature. I quote the report's thesis. In the ranking of quoted scientific publications in the country, the position of AON is very low. International cooperation generally includes the organisation of conferences and participation in conferences, but has no effect. That's what this team, let's say, civilian, outside said. The military team evaluated the needs of the army, the army. This can practically be summarised in just one point, and I quote again: it is necessary to make rapid changes in the organisation of the AON and in the employment structure, in line with the emerging challenges arising from the needs and tasks of the armed forces. And they're listed. Non-kinetic, operational activities within the country, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, both reports were prepared in February, which is much earlier, before I decided to act through a legal solution. We estimate that a large part of the study did not mean that the whole of the AON's scientific activities were barren, largely fake and facaded. The second point is that the university was not able to respond to clear needs. Especially since it's been happening for 3 and 4 years, there was a time to modify it for the military and the challenges that come, let's say, at a close distance from the country. Finally, the third point is that the internal structure of this university is virtually unmodifiable in the context of discussions, talks and does not to any extent agree with those tasks that we would like to put before this university. And these were the three main, essentially important motives that led us to decide to follow the legislative path.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u147	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u148	I'm gonna be a little pushy, 'cause summer, flies, cows... Flies are pushy, they've given it to me a little bit. Minister, did there exist... How do you understand what you've presented? Because it was preceded, I think, by reliable analysis, by two, which results in... Well, the score is bad. Lazyness and abandonment. In accepting this, however, I still have doubts as to whether a change of name had to be made. 'Cause what's she giving birth to? If we read this law so that it had to be changed as a result of laziness, omission or other sins... In the public, social, or even family opinion, they are educated by this academy by worse and better officers. Tradition, as you say, Świerczewski, and tradition, I don't know whose... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: Kutrzeby.]] Boats, right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: For example.]] Uh-huh. I thought we'd already developed better generals in NATO after 25 years than Kutrzeba... Okay, well, from the Boat tradition, I don't mind. I would prefer Rozwadowski, because in the battle of Warsaw he flashed as head of the General Staff... But I'm really sorry about the nuisance. Don't you think that's why they'll be in society, in the families of the sulk, just the sulks, the unpleasant discussions, the elements, and perhaps even the disputes? I'm not thinking about a coup.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u149	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u150	Mr. Senator, I'd like to point out... [[I was in the army... the notabene academy still thinks General Ofactor's order is important. I'm talking about the Military Technical Academy.]] Mr. Senator, I would like to point out that the wording and certain terms that have come up are yours, not mine... [[Yes.]] ...both in the previous speech and in the present. As for the merit of the speech, I would like to say that we very clearly stress the existence of a large number of officers involved in the service of Poland, who served the army and the Polish state well throughout the post-war period, also during the period of the Polish People's Republic, and these officers, we do not regard these soldiers as people of the state of the country, the army or the Rembertów Academy. I would also like to make it clear that it is not the purpose of this modification to carry out automatic redundancies without considering the case. As a minister, I expect the rector and the authorities of the academy to deal with cases individually, so that each case is treated individually and, as I said, intellectual, professional and moral qualifications are taken into account. I assume that's how it's gonna be done. Neither the Minister of National Defence nor its deputies intend to interfere in particular cases or in specific examples. This is a matter which must be assessed in terms of relevance and decency, as well as professional and intellectual knowledge of each individual level, as well as usefulness in a given team, because sometimes a person is very valuable and very good, but does not fit into the team. And we know that, that's always the way it is. These cases will already be evaluated by the academy authorities, not by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u151	Thank you, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal, I have a question.]] Senator Ryszka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u152	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question about the name. Namely the National Defence Academy... I'm not getting into historical issues, I'm just saying that here's the concept of national defence, and here's the art of war. Could the Minister explain whether something is changing in the geopolitical situation of Poland, that we have had a defence policy so far, and now we will have, so to speak, a war policy, which means we will be more offensive? My question... Does it have anything to do with making that name up? Because that name was made up by someone, but I'm talking about justification.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u153	The justification is only historical; it has nothing to do with changing our intentions or our war doctrine. Neither Polish policy nor the Ministry of National Defence policy is going to become more aggressive or more expansion-oriented. Absolutely not what we mean. Just as in England there is a War College, or war college, we also refer to the tradition of the Higher War School. And the new name is intended to emphasize the continuity of Polish arms tradition and the continuity of knowledge and collective memory about the Polish army over the last centuries. And that's our only purpose.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u154	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u155	The Polish Military College would be a very nice name. I have a second question. Namely, the Academy of National Defence probably met all the requirements about higher education. Or also the Academy of War Art after various changes, etc. She's gonna have so many professors, all-habilitation doctors, and she's gonna be able to broadcast higher degrees? What's it gonna look like?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u156	There are clearly defined criteria for evaluation, parameterization and accreditation of military universities for the issue of scientific degrees. The Academy of National Defence held these, and the Academy of War Art inherits all assets in terms of powers, in a material sense, as regards students; in every aspect this property is inherited by a new institution, the Academy of War Art. And it is the duty of the new authorities to ensure that these powers are not lost. This is a matter that we really care about; we want the same powers for degrees to be maintained. We also hope that in the near future, when this is possible also in a procedural sense, these powers will be increased. I would like to make it clear that they will be concerned with this, I hope. The third department, because instead of two departments, there will be three departments. The third one, newly formed, will be completely new, and he will just apply for doctoral, habilitation or professorship rights. This will be the goal that will guide us. As one of several new departments. In the case of 2 other departments, the powers are to be retained. And I assume that's how it's gonna be. [[Thank you...]] [[And how many of these academy privileges do they currently have?]] Mr. Senator, I'd have to look in my notes. I'm sure it's the right to donate PhDs to both departments... [[Voice from the room: 4.]] Excuse me? Oh, four clearances, as your counselor tells me. I would like to make it clear that these powers that are currently in place will be maintained. Similarly, we want all these action profiles to be maintained, and I am talking about the courses of study that have been done so far; I am talking about undergraduate and master's studies. Nothing changes here, all civilian students will be able to continue their courses and their specialties. It's in the interest of the university and that's what we do first. From the point of view of the army, this limitation or better profiling will be postponed in time precisely so that the civilian students who are studying now do not lose any of their powers. The army needs a more elite university, more profiled for military needs and more suited to current challenges, but this is a matter of no more of the year, I think a few years, 2, 3 years, because we want to do this in evolutionary mode and in a very calm and prudent mode of action.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u158	I must say that the information you have provided about these two audits that have been done has shaken me a little bit, because it appears that at a university which, in general terms, is a military university, training military men, of course, there can also be civilians, but mostly military training. There wasn't a single military... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: Yes, sir.]] ...trained all civilians. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: Yes, sir. We're talking about students, not students.]] I don't know, I don't know that much. This is where I read... [[The student is on course, and the student...]] I understand that, but one learns and the other learns. If I read that, for example. On 31 May 2016, the graduation ceremony took place during the academic year for senior officers and professional... [[They're students...]] Okay, but these are first-degree studies... [[Voice from the room: 3 years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u159	Mr. Senator, if I may, I would also reply from the perspective of a longtime employee of the University of Warsaw. Because there were almost 8,000 civilian students, there is still and there is not one military among them. They study in two cycles, as it is in the Bologna system, Bachelor's degree and later Master's degree. All together there were about 7,000 800 people, but at all times there were about 1 thousand 700 students who were in access mode either weekly or monthly, or semester courses or courses, as they used to say, and they were mostly military, mostly, which does not mean that everyone. These courses were tailored to the needs that were reported not necessarily by the General Staff and by the Armed Forces, but Well, let's see. They were military-related. And that's the difference. On the one hand, there were courses that sometimes lasted a week or two weeks, in any case measured in weeks or months, on the other hand the course of study which is full. Speaking of students, I was talking about civilian students. About the students I always talk about, too. Here I complete my first statement in the Senate, and they also participated in courses in different cycles and profiles. It's true.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u160	Good. This is a valuable supplement, because the first statement showed that there were no people in uniform at all. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: In practice, as you walk around campus, you do not really see them.]] I understand, but it wasn't that bad. The second question is this. If this audit also served as a basis for such a decision, but a far-reaching one, because it is not just about changing the name, it is about redecorating the entire university, including staff, because it is important to say, perhaps you have not read that employees, if they do not receive new engagements within 2 months, cease to be employees, so we are dealing with staff exchanges, I do not know how far... Therefore, if these were so important audits, then why there was not a word in the explanatory memorandum to this law. I read the justification earlier, of course, before you explained it, hence my questions. I read the justification, and the justification was that just what you do needs to be done better. Then the question arises: why, first, change the name, second, do such a far-reaching remodeling? If the audits were so to say, crushing, as you put it, then their results should be in the explanatory memorandum. Why weren't they there?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u161	The Ministry of National Defence is not interested in making public the description of the functioning of universities as detailed and as accurate as that of audits. It is not reserved, but the Ministry of National Defence believes that such descriptions should not be made public, because they contain a very detailed description of the operation of the military facility and at the same time of the military unit. [[May I continue?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u162	Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. [[Well, unless someone else has a question.]] Yeah, there's a question. [[I'll wait.]] Yeah, I'm gonna stop this dialogue. There you go, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, and then, of course, the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm talking about something quite similar to the one you asked Marshal Borowski about, because I don't know the specifics of military education very well. Please say: in new solutions, so if the Academy of War Art is established, will the teaching offer increase or the offer to extend competence for professional soldiers working in the Polish Army? Will it be a university which will also take into account to such a large extent civilians, who are of course also needed in the field of defence and security or maybe collective security? I understand that specialist and strategic studies on this subject will be there, but will it increase, in this new kind of legal configuration, the offer for professional soldiers serving in the Polish Army? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u164	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u165	Absolutely. And I would like to say that the offer will increase both for the whole of the students, I am thinking about civilians here and for all the military who will be training there of all kinds. I want to give one concrete example and show you the framework for this. The specific example concerns the analytical centres already set up on 1 June, which are intended primarily to provide expertise and analyze the situation in selected regions of the world in terms of the interests of Poland, not only the army, but even in a broader way, of course within our capabilities. These expert centres are also to provide teaching services to students of the academy. In this context, the extension of the offer will consist in both the creation of conversations and seminars related to points, concrete geopolitical and military situations and examples, as well as the conduct of lectures on these topics. Ramically we estimate that for military students in a qualitative sense it will be a complete change... well, perhaps a very large one, maybe a total one, because there are many unique specialties there and we want to maintain these. I also want to make it clear that where the National Defence Academy has really important specialties, unique to the military, this will be maintained. The facility, which we believe requires some modifications, but will be maintained entirely, is the Simulation and Computer War Games Centre. And this is the example that's supposed to show that we can and want to appreciate the well-functioning fragments of the National Defence Academy, but we just need to help them develop and sustain them. But the principle is that a new spirit must be maintained. I was talking about the fact that the Academy of National Defence was actually focused on national activities, and foreign cooperation was mainly based on conferences of various kinds and practically no results. I would like to say that the event took place from February to now The series of lectures on geopolitical and political-war strategies were lectures by various foreign lecturers with international reputation. He started this lecture by a professor from Heidelberg, and he finishes this lecture by a guy from Princeton. I think when it comes to these colleges... This event is important not only on the scale of the Academy of National Defence, but also on every university in Poland. The topics were as professional and specialized as possible. This is no time and no place to discuss it. Nevertheless, I want to show that, so to speak, the way we think and this new spirit that we care about. And that's actually a strategic goal. There must be fresh air in here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u166	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u167	Speaking of yours, Minister, explaining that the Ministry is not interested in revealing sensitive To say no, it's confidential. Information about this university... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: I did not say that they are confidential. But we don't want them to be shown in public.]] I understand, but you just showed me. The Senate is, as you know, open, there's even a transmission. And besides, to be honest, you didn't say anything that couldn't be in the explanatory memorandum. You said the students were civilian, the strategy wasn't, the contacts with foreign countries with the help of a conference... Well, these aren't issues that could jeopardize our safety. And I'm gonna say that they should be in the explanatory memorandum. I'm gonna say it again because you were talking about the audit... to make it clear: I have no reason to doubt it. I didn't read it, I don't know. Only that such public activities should be governed by a rule, namely that if there is any assessment of phenomena, institutions, etc. and they become the basis of the decision, these assessments are known in full, in part, as regards applications, etc. And someone can respond to them. However, they become the subject of a debate, more or less public. Otherwise, it's a little hooded. We were gonna... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: No hood court. There was an audit...]] Well, I already said I don't know, maybe this audit was very accurate, etc. I'm just talking about the rules. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: I question the term.]] Okay, I'll withdraw the term. [[Senator Borowski is known for such terms.]] I withdraw the term, but I uphold what I said before. Recently we had an example of an audit carried out by the government in relation to the previous team. And there were probably the right and right elements, and there were elements that were very quickly questioned. And the document wasn't there. So, in short, such an audit does not fully fulfil its function. That's all I wanted to say. It's not a question, it's rather a continuation of an exchange of views on this matter, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u168	Thank you very much. Minister, no further questions. [[There's more.]] Is it? [[He's here.]] Senator Rusiecki, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u169	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I would like to continue with the thought of Senator Jackowski and ask what the report of the Academy of War Arts will be to the senior officer schools operating at the moment. Will it be possible that in the new organization of military education the elite of Polish officers, educated at a new time, would have the opportunity to participate in the mentioned kind of courses of the best military strategists from the world to develop their qualifications? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u170	Thank you very much. Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u171	Mr. Senator, absolutely. I mean, the goal is... A little bit of discussion here, or, on my part, information about a new program that's actually... This discussion is already being conducted by specialists from a given school, i.e. in this case from Rembertów. The minister can't and shouldn't even interfere. I want to be clear on two points. The exchange with other higher education schools and officer schools should be and must be. This involves two things: firstly, the exchange of teachers, secondly, education and integral training. So far. And it's not a flaw. Only Rembert was training only an officer of land troops, either a sailor only, or an airman only. Now we want the elements of training from a given officer's school to be shown in the others. So, in short, that where land troops often operate in conjunction with air forces or special forces... so that officers who have knowledge about this and can present the thesis concerning the logistics, staff, operational activities related to their profile and their military specialty can lecture in other officers' schools, also in Rembertów, at these courses and also in the military department. Because that's what's going to be one of the three departments mentioned. The point is to make it very clear. And this is a program change that should come in right away. From the first one, so to speak, whistle. Once it's included in the curriculum, it's obviously a school thing, and we're not gonna interfere at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u172	Minister, I have a question for you. I'd like to ask you about the complexity of military training. Because, I understand, at the academy we're talking about here, there's going to be a Bologna system, a 3+2 system, also in the military direction, an officer's direction. And does this mean that the candidates in this direction will be going through earlier... or will the graduates of the officers' schools have the opportunity to get into this academy and to learn in the Bologna system? I don't know how in senior officer schools right now... Is that where the Bologna system works? Therefore, the question. So, let's assume, after 3 years of officer school, a good candidate can get into this academy? Does he have to finish the whole thing, finish a 5-year-old officer's school, and then he'll be sent to the academy? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: Mr. Marshal...]] How's the road around here? Is there gonna be a way around this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u173	Thank you for that question. You have touched on a problem that is not only essential, but is also being discussed at the moment. And it is a much broader problem than military education and, in particular, the Academy of War Arts. Two things. We think... But, I point out, this is the problem that we will be discussing, and anyone who is competent and interested in the problem will be a welcome participant in the debate. How elite should this school in Rembertów be? She should certainly be much less numerous, with much more funding from the Ministry of National Defence and certainly much better suited! I am also talking about the war craft and about the profile of general studies to the needs of the army. I'm sure she should educate a lot less students in terms of years. We will not remove anyone, but we will try to gradually reduce this number. I'm answering your question directly now. As a result, the promotion system or the career path you were asking for must be linked to military education. It's clear. And we also want to restore the title of a certified officer, which will be necessary for the promotion to the level of staff, i.e. from the major up. Without this title such promotion will not be obtained. For these trainings, courses and even longer education 'Cause we think here even... But I would like to point out that this is the subject of a study at the moment. It's not like we know everything from upstairs, you have to check it calmly, also in action. We're even thinking about a 2-year cycle of preparation of staff officers, at least in some form. So on the one hand this is a matter that will be necessary. On the other hand, we want this system to be linked to the senior officers' schools, and especially to Rembertov, so that he is very clear about the promotion of the most capable ones. I mean. so that their investments in completed training, courses and studies are clearly a promotional factor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u174	Thank you very much. So no questions asked. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: Thank you kindly.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Bobka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I, on the occasion of this point today and this discussion which was created, would like to say, also addressing the Minister, with whom we have already discussed these issues, such a thing: I assume and hope that this law will be just the first step in the systemic reform of all military higher education in Poland. 'Cause I'm not gonna tell you a secret. This regarding the Academy of National Defence has already been said by the Minister, and this information for an outside listener and, I believe, for most countries it can be surprising or even astonishing that at the Academy of National Defence there are actually all civilian students. [[But it is.]] And it's not a condition, or it's just the National Defence Academy. Right now we have a dozen military schools where military students don't actually exist. So, in fact, we have a particular branch or a particular group of universities, which, by name or façade, are military, and in fact, if we really look at what these schools are, actually state vocational schools that train civilians, and the difference is that most of the staff Although I do not know if most, we do not have such data, it is in uniform. So this is a completely bizarre phenomenon that has been created in the last several years. There seems to be a serious task here, above all, for the Ministry of National Defence. The Ministry of Science treats this as a problem from his point of view quite, you can say, marginal, because it concerns several schools at more than 300, which the Ministry supervises. However, it seems that something needs to be done about this phenomenon. I declare that the Ministry of Science and Higher Education is interested in this and ready to cooperate, and this step, which is now being carried out, is the first step, I hope, in the right direction, leading to the fact that military education will have a kind of re-rank and carry out a specific mission, which is to educate people for the purposes of national defence or for the purposes of war art, speaking this new language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u176	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Sławomir Rybicki has made his speech... [[No.]] No? He didn't. I'm sorry. [[He's pulled out.]] He's pulled out. Good. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print No 192 and the report of the Commission In print No 192 A. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to present a report from the Joint Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, the Law on the amendment of the Law on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in the Republic of Poland in 2016. This morning's meeting of the Joint Committees concluded with the main proposal to adopt this law without amendments. I will report on the most important issues that this law covers, but I think, Ladies and gentlemen, that we are aware that in less than a month's time in our capital, in Warsaw, there will be, you can say, the centre of the free world, which seeks security on our globe. I think it will be a very big event that will bring together the political leaders of the countries gathered in the North Atlantic Pact and guests attending this meeting in Warsaw. Let us also be aware that during these days in Poland, the North Atlantic Alliance's activities in the military area are practiced in the framework of the 2016 Anakonda maneuvers. So today we are dealing with a situation of military exercises, and before us is a great assembly with a political dimension. This law was a government project. I think that the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration have prepared properly for this summit in Warsaw to run at a very high level. I would therefore like to present to you the most important issues covered by this law. The Act shall provide the Office for the Protection of the Government with the possibility to register, by technical means, images and sound in such cases where evidence of criminal offences or offences is recorded as preventive actions. The Act also provides that recorded images or sound, which do not contain evidence of criminal offences, will be destroyed within 30 days of the registration and that a protocol will be drawn up from this destruction. The Act also states that during these 4 days of the North Atlantic Pact summit in Warsaw, i.e. from 7 July to 10 July, it is forbidden to participate in spontaneous gatherings. I'm sure, ladies and gentlemen, from the military, from the soldiers, from the police officers, the Internal Security Agency, the State Fire Department, the Government Security Bureau, the Border Guard will require increased physical, personal involvement. Therefore, the Act provides that when the time limits of the service are exceeded during the preparation and duration of the summit, i.e. from 15 June to 15 July, soldiers and officers fulfilling tasks will be able to receive a cash equivalent from the State budget by 30 November 2016. The Act also provides for an appropriate conversion factor to determine the financial dimension. The Act also gives the Central Anti-Corruption Office the opportunity to control the conduct of public procurement related to the holding of the summit. An appropriate report on the checks carried out will be presented to the Parliament's Committee on National Defence, as well as to the Senate's Committee on National Defence by 30 September. And these are the most important issues of the bill. I would like to say that the joint committees have accepted this document with great kindness. There was no vote of objection, 1 Senator abstained and, as I mentioned, we adopted a law on special arrangements for the North Atlantic Treaty Summit to be held in Warsaw in less than a month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u178	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would Minister Bartłomiej Grabski like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? If so, please be kind. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr Senator, the chairman of the Senate Defence Committee, has made a very comprehensive presentation of the issues relating to this law. Only by way of addition can we mention the amendment of the Act on the prohibition of participation in spontaneous gatherings in Warsaw's capital city during the NATO summit, i.e. from the beginning of 7 July to 10 July. At the same time, we say that the imposed ban on spontaneous gatherings is incidental and occasional and will last only for 4 days. The only objective to be pursued is to increase security and ensure an adequate level of security for the summit participants. And I think it's about referring to the bill everything, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u180	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u181	Minister, I understand that spontaneous gatherings are those which, in the light of the current regulations, do not require special notification, authorisation, etc. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: Yes.]] Because the ones that are planned are reported, and so on, they'll be able to continue at that time, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u182	Yeah, yeah, we're just talking about spontaneous gatherings... [[Because they're covered by guarantees, protection, etc., right?]] Yes, of course. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u183	Minister, this is an incident act concerning only this summit of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. We were looking at a bill a month or so ago, which was also an accident and which protected, among other things. World Youth Days and, if I remember correctly, the North Atlantic Treaty Summit. Why is there another law in this regard? Has the government forgotten that there is a service such as the BOR, which has limited operational capacity? Why wasn't this included in the bill that we processed a month and a half ago?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u184	Mr. Marshal, the amendment of this law is intended to increase security. These solutions are needed because issues related to the North Atlantic Summit have not been prepared before. Perhaps, under the pressure of time, some issues that should be clarified... Well, it has to be done in this revision. I am referring to the powers of the Government Security Office to record images and sounds or issues related to the equivalent for police officers, the ABW, the State Fire Department, the Government Protection Office, and the placing of orders out of public procurement law under the control of the Central Anti-corruption Office. Thank you very much. [[I have one more question: do you think there is a need for additional legislation on the security of this summit?]] The anti-terrorist law currently under investigation in the Sejm will certainly contribute to increasing security.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u185	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I think it's gonna be today. [[We're working on it, that's what expectations are.]] I'm giving this information because there was an announcement that we'll be working on Friday. We proceed to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State. I would like to remind you that this project has been introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No 109, and the committee's report In print No 109 S. We'll just have to wait a minute... Oh, there's Senator Rulewski. I'm sorry, I didn't see you. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions authorised me to present this initiative to the Senate More specifically, the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, inspired by, among others, a statement by the Ombudsman. Before I start reporting what happened during the committee's work... I would like to begin with this speech from the formula that the Marshal often uses: we are returning to the point. And I would like to say this: we are returning to the Senate's previous term of office, in which the Senate investigated the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and repressed persons, when during the work there were notable differences of opinion between the initiators of this law and associations, natural persons who expressed dissatisfaction with the scope of the Act. Then the Senate agreed that under those conditions Without entering into the determination of these conditions... it will be possible to return to the matter during the next term of office. This was a promise far-reaching because the composition of the current term was not known at the time. But this promise has been confirmed, in the Senate of this term, some senators have kept their word, and during the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions they are amending this law. I believe that these changes meet the expectations of a broad group of people who feel affected by the fact that only after many years, and under the best conditions, on the basis of not best solutions, receive compensation for the damage done by the communist authorities. So what does this law, as I say, resulting from the ombudsman's inspiration, but also from the work of the committee itself, as well as from the amendment proposed by the Association on December 13, include? These are essentially three changes and derivatives of these changes. It aims to expand the subjective scope of the subjects of this law. It was on the ombudsman's initiative that it was decided that the existing provision of the law which authorised the lodging of claims in courts was extended in this way to replace the words "executed' with "executed' relating to the judgment. It seems to be a slight change, but in fact it is a very big change. To date, those who have been wronged as an invalid judgment, such as internment, have only been able to seek compensation or redress if that judgment has been enforced. That is, when this person was actually interned or wronged in another way. This means that the other consequences of this internment, concerning both this person and the closest family members, were not subject to judicial review and were therefore not compensated. In fact, it was the case that sometimes the scale of the sentence executed or the judgment executed was more serious, for example, the duration of the month of internment. These were, for example, dismissals, blacklisting competitions. In other words, it's like Berufsverboten or denying the possibility of publishing books, doing scientific work, and the consequences of which were greater. Because the internment could take place within a month, and for those without a career or career, the effects were greater. It also reflected in pension benefits, and if so, it affected families already, because families also live in material benefits. This case, as I said, was inspired by the Ombudsman's committee, but the case had a history. In the original text, I think it's from the dead. President Lech Kaczyński, the formula used was that you could apply for compensation or compensation in the event of a decision which was annulled. However, as a result of the work, let us say, bureaucratic in Parliament, this has escaped the attention of the extraordinary committee. She returned to the old formula that the actual execution of the penalty, i.e. stay, only internment and nothing more, is important. The case was also raised by the Constitutional Court, which, although not acting on procedural grounds, did not give rise to a case for failure to comply with the law. However, he pointed out to the legislator that these people should not be narrowed down by the fact that the execution of the penalty is important, especially as it concerns those who have, however, undertaken a noble, glorious, patriotic effort to defend freedom or human rights, as well as social rights covered by the Charter of Human Rights. However, the Commission has accepted the solution in order to extend its recognition of the possibility of redress, i.e. compensation and redress, in the event of a judgment. But not only that. As I say, the committee also deleted the provision that temporarily limited the possibility of making claims. To date, this has been specified for a year, i.e. enforcement claims could be made, that is only internment if one year has not passed. It's quite a specific range, I would say, discriminatory, because generally with claims, for example. The State Treasury takes place within a period of 10 years and in civil matters concerning commercial relations is 5 years or is 3 years old. This is a narrow year. Especially since the current history shows that a number of events and facts, from surveillance to agent activity, only reveals the light of day and that there are differences of opinion as to the assessment of these events. So people will be injured after so many years since the events. We're talking about 1956 as the beginning. They had a lot of problems with the district court, which was competent to deal with these cases, with evidence. Because it's known that there was not written evidence for everything, and there were a lot of witnesses missing. So this process Although this is not a process, it is the presence of a court However, it will be difficult. After narrowing it down to one year, he'd be more difficult. The Commission has therefore decided to delete this cesarea of one year and Like in another law, whose title I can't remember now. Do not specify this time, leave this time limit indeterminate. The derivative of this is another provision in this law, which says explicitly that these claims do not expire. So the human language says these claims never expire. As I said, during the work of the committee in which the representatives of the associations took part, an amendment was tabled, so that the subjective scope at the moment, which was included in the interned persons, say, in the centres of internment, in the places of isolation, would be extended to those who, under the previous Senate Act, first the resolutions and then the law, would be granted the status of activist of the anti-communist opposition. As you know, certain benefits and titles were granted in this law. So what is this subjective extension? It is precisely that other persons, those who have suffered persecution other than internment or detention, will be able to make an effort before the court for damages or... [[Make amends.]] ...to make amends. Thank you. Maybe somebody should ask. I'm running here. And what persons are indicated in this Act, which was previously adopted by the Senate. It's a couple of groups. These are primarily activists of the anti-communist opposition, who by definition were persecuted, but there was no internment then, there was no arrest, there were other sanctions about which in a moment. These people were among others. Surveillanced and for this reason suffered damage of various kinds. Many of them were not engaged in a profession, could not pursue a profession, had been sent an APB after them, and had repeatedly been punished for offences. Unlawful acts have been taken against them, even in the form of obstacles to the pursuit of the profession, concerning family life, and often have been criminal or criminal in nature. Students were relegated from higher education institutions, employment contracts were canceled, censorship applied. So this range... [[It's been stopped for 48 hours.]] Yeah, they've been stopped for 48 hours on multiple occasions. So this group is expanding significantly. I think this is one of the good solutions, the continuation of those solutions that were taken earlier. This is a solution which, in addition to the aid uglylyly named by the opposition environments, will provide the possibility of obtaining compensation or redress. It's worth saying it's not just painted paper. According to the statistics of the Ministry of Justice, the average value of compensation and redress currently reaches about 65 thousand PLN and has a growing trend. Of course, you shouldn't think. Then I noticed here in the justifications or descriptions that a mistake had been made Anyone who makes such an additional claim will receive an amount and for what he has already received and for the additional sanctions that have been imposed on him for additional circumstances accompanying the act of internment or any other judgment. This will be complementary to compensation, as there is a principle of seriousness in the case of the judge. This possibility will also allow us to reach backwards, i.e. those people who have only been recognized or not so far, if the court has not recognized... In any event, those who have received adequate compensation for internment will now be able to ask again for the decision to be moved and, consequently, to be appointed by the new court. Then it's worth it... Of course, the question is how much it will cost. There are no precise numbers. On the basis of the data that has now been collected, it appears that about 1,000... of the Senate's previous term of office's application for assistance has been made by 1,000 500 people. It was accepted in these accounts that half of them would ask for an increase, i.e. recognition of further sanctions, further difficulties or even persecution, as not all acts of internment were accompanied by additional sanctions. In addition, it must be acknowledged here. According to the IPN... Based on the opinion of the IPN in conjunction with the opinion of the movement... it was considered that such people could be 5,000 500 in the next three years. This was multiplied by the previous 56 thousand zlotys and came out actually a dizzying sum of 323 million 800 thousand zlotys, of course spread over instalments. It must have dynamized... The Sejm Bureau requested an opinion from the Government. Unfortunately, that is not the opinion of the government. Because, I suppose, perhaps more important, more realistic is this statistic that doesn't contain a number that doesn't say exactly how many people can possibly turn up... During the previous work on this law, there were even dramatic tensions, including in this House, as some believe that the number of people who would apply for various forms of aid or compensation would reach 300 000. However, today it is believed that the number of those who turn to it will not exceed... Because the data keeps changing, the bill is young. ... It's not supposed to exceed 5,000 500. High Izbo, the committee, of course, as I say, has accepted this solution in agreement, expanding. And we ask the High Chamber, Mrs Marshal, to adopt a resolution on the law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against people being oppressed for activities for the sake of the independent existence of the Polish State. Printing No 109, which is uniform in nature. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u187	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of inquiry to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorised Senator Jan Rulewski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Robert Mammoth, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u188	I'd like to ask, because I don't really understand... I, of course, fully support this bill, but I would like to ask you, where did you get this sum, Mr. Senator, the 67 thousand zlotys? Because I don't really understand. I remember that the maximum amount of compensation was 25 thousand PLN, and here you are serving 67 thousand PLN. Of these 67 thousand zlotys, it actually turns into a back-up sum, three hundred and a few million. So that this is not the same as the bill that we and the senator are trying to introduce to the Senate, where 30 million zlotys were planned to help opposition activists who are in a difficult situation today, and it turns out that out of these 30 million zlotys only 5 million zlotys were used. I'm afraid we're overestimating the value. That is why I would like to ask you why you accepted the amount of PLN 67 thousand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u189	56 thousand PLN. Roger that. It is: indeed, in the first initiative adopted by the High House... I think it was on the initiative of President Lech Kaczyński, the initial total amount of compensation and compensation for those who were interned was probably 24 thousand. However, as a result of complaints to the Constitutional Court, the Court held that setting the upper limit in this case was incompatible with the principle of social justice, since there is no amount that could be precisely determined what is the scale of repression and how to measure it. And that's why he put up with it. By lifting that line... Moreover, this was also due to the appearances of the courts which had difficulties in interpreting, because it happened that the courts in respect of the same two cases issued the same amounts of rulings because recognition was not a problem because it was enough to present documents And the scale of this repression was considerable... 'Cause, you know, like... there was a loss of property and a loss of only a month's freedom. That is why the Court considered that this limit was incompatible with the principle of social justice and was decided to repeal it. Hence, there was a wave of further claims and further consideration in many cases. And after that, the courts that I already say a little bit columnically In the month of internment, on average 2 thousand zlotys ruled, since then they began to investigate in more detail the extent of the harmfulness of repression, injury and suffering, and this amount has changed. But it's... 56,000, Mr. Senator, it's not just about the interns, it's also about another kind of persecution that's been going on since 1956. After all, it was a kind of repression... resulting from the capture of the land, the forced conscription to the army of sons, e.g. peasants with such a result that farms fell, and in wartime, as you know, because you were involved in this, cars were confiscated. For others, this was even worse: death, disability, and other suffering. And this amount is not just the amount that I mentioned, resulting from the internment, but we are also talking about a law that reaches its impact by 1956.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. And you ask the question of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u191	Senator Mammy partially replied. To my question. Now I wanted to ask you how much the state's budget has been spent on this bill... since it was passed in the previous term. Five million... In this connection, I ask: how many people did this cover, how many people were covered by this law? And doesn't the rapporteur confuse the various laws? Because what else is an investigation into compensation from the Civil Procedure Code It was a civil process and there was a whole series of these processes, probably there will still be another one, and what else is the investigation of the special bill on internment compensation. There were up to 25,000... Because in fact 12 months of internment, it was up to 2,000, that's 24,000, courts actually gave the maximum. And that's a different situation. But shouldn't the five million that the state budget has spent be taken into account when considering this bill? Isn't it that state authorities, but also IPN, Ministry of IPN in particular They estimated it at 300 million, as I recall... $300 million, which is an enormous sum, a budget-retardant sum, and it spent $5 million. For how many people? And how much do you think this amendment will expand? How many more can it hold? If you won't be able to answer, I'll ask for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u192	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I am not mistaken, because the matter of internment is included in the Act on recognition of nullity... i.e. in all these activities since 1956, and as I say, this Act specifically mentions the matter of internment and defines it as a presidential initiative. The amount I was talking about, which was later repealed by the Constitutional Tribunal. As far as the effects of the action are concerned, the situation is indeed variable, and therefore I will refrain from answering this question. I see that there is a representative here from the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, who seems to be counting on the results of the bill you asked about and which was passed in the previous term. And I also think it's important what Mr. Marshal said about the dynamics of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u194	Thank you very much. Any of you senators want to ask the senator another question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Minister Marcin Warchoł of the Ministry of Justice is with us. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's proposal touches on 3 issues, this has already been explained in detail by your Senator, and I will not repeat this... It serves the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, in principle judgments, because the Constitutional Tribunal abolished the distinction on these 2 grounds... I mean. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 First of all, the annulment of the decision or the adoption of an internment decision was referred to, and now it is possible to accumulate these grounds, first of all. Secondly, the Court has abolished the 25 000 limit. And the third point, instead of doing what the senator was gracious to mention here. The question, in short, is very important... I had the pleasure of representing the Ombudsman in the case before the Constitutional Tribunal concerning a constitutional complaint in this particular case as an employee of the Ombudsman's Office. The complainant was Mr Alfred Bondos, the protagonist of Świdnicki's Solidarity, as I recall. The Court dealt with a very important issue... There were basically two connected constitutional complaints, the second complaint was Mr Roman Mirror from the Lower Silesia Solidarity Fighting. The Constitutional Tribunal dealt with the following issue: whether it was issued or executed. The circumstances, as I recall, were as follows. On December 13, Mr. Alfred Bondos escaped chasing him with a BOLO issued at the time, in quite drastic circumstances, he jumped out of the balcony. Then he hid for quite a long time, under conditions of really derogatory dignity, in the heating duct. So that it was an exhausting experience, a pity, an injury to the whole family, for the wife who was under surveillance at the time, and the family was also persecuted. And here's the thing: of course, the ruling wasn't executed, but it was given. So how do we do this harm? The Constitutional Tribunal held that the limitation of compensation, compensation only for the issuing of a judgment is in line with the Constitution. I mean, it's not against the constitution that, in short, there's no provision for compensation, compensation for the execution of a judgment. So, in conclusion, it must be said that in these three points we are talking about here, firstly, the cumulation of the bases, secondly, the limitation of the quota, thirdly, the issues: issued or executed... In that third case, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled otherwise than in the two previous cases. That's one thing, the substantive one. Of course, I, as a lawyer representing the Ombudsman, held such a position that I supported this constitutional complaint... both constitutional complaints. Today we are facing the issue of the implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal judgment and the question addressed directly to me as a representative of the government, also formulated by Marshal Borusewicz, as I understand it, is: what do the statistics look like? Well, these statistics look like the Senator rapporteur said. Indeed, 56 thousand PLN is the amount calculated by the IPN and by the Association on December 13th. As regards the financial implications of the regulation, Minister Kowalczyk asked us in his letter on 17 May to present a financial assessment of the proposed law in agreement with the Ministry of Finance. These effects were estimated in OSR mode by the projector at about PLN 107,9 million per year. The Minister of Justice informed the Minister of Finance that the funds had not been secured for this purpose in part 15 of the State's budget. We have pointed out that it is, of course, the jurisdiction of the court to determine the amount of compensation and compensation. Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator, I'm calling you. Of course yes, 2 issues need to be distinguished. The first point is when people who are being repressed in civil proceedings apply for compensation and redress, and the second point is the so-called issue. the February Act, the one from 1991. There are 2 completely different modes of directing such claims. Once we have been appointed Minister of Finance, we will send a reply to the Senate on the financial consequences. We haven't gotten it yet. That's the situation. In recent years this has been shown in this way that after the repeal in 2011. This limitation to 25 thousand PLN of damages granted by courts grew. They grew to that 56 thousand PLN. Now I do not remember this in detail, but first, in 2012, it was, apparently, 30 thousand, then 40 thousand PLN etc., etc., until that 56 thousand PLN today. So that the role of the court is to assess such damage, injury and it is not possible to accurately estimate the amount of one-off compensation. As for the number of people that Marshal Borusewicz asked about, I think that the IPN and the Association would be addressed on 13 December, as in this group more than 5 000 eligible persons, which is the structure of this group. I think that these two institutions should be addressed to this type of question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u196	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Mr. Senator Robert Mammoths. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u197	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for you. On what grounds do you assume that this is what you need such a large sum of 100 million? I'm gonna go back with my maniac's stubbornness... In my previous term, I have met with such a situation several times, that when it comes to compensation for former anti-communist opposition activists, these sums have always been very large. And if it came later actually to realize this, then out of these huge sums came smaller, out of 50 million or out of 100 million it was going to be 5 million or 3 million. Once again, I am quoting an example of this law on aid to these opposition activists in a difficult situation. I'm afraid we're generalizing. We assume that some thousands of activists who have been interned are about to claim compensation, that everyone will want compensation. Of course, one can assume that, but practice shows that it is not that it was not. I think we should have That's what Marshal Borusewicz said. More statistical information, because then we'd be talking more specifically. ♪ 'Cause for today ♪ It's even the hundred million you told me about, I don't know where it comes from. I mean, that 56,000 or up to 60 grand only got a couple of people, didn't it? Not all of them. And we can't say today that if that's what the damages were for... I know a lot of internships who didn't take any compensation at all. And today, everyone gets recognised and it's assumed that everyone will take this compensation, that's why they're making that kind of money. I just want us to talk a little more real about it. There's a request for you to tell me if the hundred million... How many people are supposed to claim this compensation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u198	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u199	Thank you very much. Senator, OSR, impact assessment, in this case... As far as this 109 million PLN is concerned, this is not the sum that we have calculated as a resort, as the Ministry of Justice, but as a projector, in this case the High Chamber, hence I am here... I can guess where that came from. So that's basically not a question for us anymore. What we have reported is the average amount of compensation or compensation granted. The 56 thousand zlotys mentioned here are our data, indeed, it comes from the data of our department. As for the need that the senator mentioned, to obtain more data... No doubt, yes, probably. I think this structure... We don't have enough data so we can talk about this in detail right now. Okay, here's the full approval. My private opinion is like the senator's opinion that we need more information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u200	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Jan Rulewski. Mr. Senator... Senator, you wanted to ask the Minister a question, right? [[Yeah, yeah, I'm sorry.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u201	Excuse me. There's a lot of debate going on. Minister, now we have a slightly changed situation in connection with this bill. My question is this. In view of the seriousness of the thing judged, the principle... Let's just say that someone has already received compensation or compensation for internment, which has already been granted to him. If he makes claims now because of other sufferings, does the court take into account what has already been paid? Is he obliged to take this into account, which means balance it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u202	I understand that the senator is asking the question of the settlement of compensation for a given decision... [[Voice from the room: and execution.]] And execution. And about some additional damage and harm, but no longer related to this particular decision. Well, in this case, of course, we count regardless of what the court ruled. Here, the question of the state of the matter of judgment, the seriousness of the matter of judgment refers to the data set out in the particular judgment. Definitely.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal in a moment. Now you're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. How many people have received confirmation of the status of anti-communist opposition activist or person repressed under the March 2015 Act? Since the entry into force of this law, it has been about a year and we can see from the number of possible additional costs. Because one of the numbers in the impact assessment is a little bit taken from the ceiling. This is the maximum possible, estimated by one of the associations, number of people who could turn in this case. And here we'll have information on how many people actually return a year.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u205	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u206	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, we don't have that kind of source. I'm looking at a friend of mine from the department... We don't have that kind of data unless I'm mistaken. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u207	Marcin Serocki, Ministry of Justice. If I may speak... the data we have is quite modest. They are based on the fact that our analytical department presents us with a list of people who have applied for compensation and redress, as well as statistics showing what happened, whether or not something has been tried. As I remember, in 2015 people who had made such requests were 388 and thus statistically outperformed 56 thousand people. The figures in the OSR indicate that the projector has multiplied these 56 thousand, I understand, by the number of 5,000 700 people, which in turn have been determined on the basis of data from IPN and association. Well, there seems to be a very reasonable thought in that count. But there's no other data we can provide. It seems that other departments, offices, could have more in-depth data on those who may yet be present. Thus, more than the number of those claiming compensation for any additional claims. So that if such data were made available to us And we're keenly interested in calculating that, and we'd be very pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u208	I understand the senator has already obtained - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. The answer to your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u209	I got a quarter of the answers, but she checks out, because we have, please, two numbers. One is 380 in 2015 and we're talking about people. And the other is over 5,000, and these are estimates, and they're disproportionate at all... So I think that these costs are fortunately overpriced and they won't be that big a deal. For the Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u210	Good. Thank you, Senator. Is there anything else the Minister wants to say or not? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. I'd like to ask you a question from Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u211	Minister, one minor correction in the form of a question. Isn't Roman Zwierzan Gdynia's resident? Roman Mirror. Because you said that... [[...that from Lower Silesia.]] ...that he's from Lower Silesia. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Ah, sorry...]] Wasn't Roman Zwierzan Gdynia?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u212	I don't remember.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u213	Okay, well, I'm giving it not in the form of a question, but a statement: he comes from... he was a Gdynia resident, he still lives in Gdynia. He's not from Lower Silesia. Lower Silesia is, of course, the Solidarity Fighting, but he was from Gdynia, and he belonged to the Solidarity Fighting. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you very much. As I say, I performed here, Mr. Marshal...]] It's okay. I don't blame you, it's just that we're writing all this down, there's protocol, somebody's gonna use it and some historian's gonna say he was a resident of Lower Silesia. And now... Well, his wife is now a messenger, she's a messenger from Gdynia. [[From Kukiz.]] I have questions for you about these cost estimates, too. How many people have been compensated? Because you have to subtract this group from those who can apply. There's a rule that needs to be taken into account. How many people have been compensated? I am thinking above all about the state of war, because compensation for earlier cases also covers the period of the previous Stalinist period, right? This bill... [[Yes.]] It's the compensation... [[1956...]] I see. But basically in my assessment of compensation, if anyone wanted to, they got it. The issue concerns those who have been repressed in a state of war widely understood, not in a state of war, which ended in the decree of Jaruzelski, but which lasted until 1988 in principle. Can you give me that number?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u214	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as data on the number of people are concerned, we have... I'm asking my colleague to correct me, but I have the data, and I have the data on the number of people who are convicted of compensation for not being valid, which is the February Act as a whole... Yet let us remember that there is a much longer period than only 1981, than de facto martial law. This number of people is as follows: since 1991, i.e. since the entry into force of this law, that is 69 thousand 759 people. This is the total number of persons in respect of whom these damages have been de facto ordered. The total amount of damages ordered, total is 1 billion 127 million 984 thousand 108 zł. The average amount of damages awarded is PLN 16,000 170. With regard to this period of only martial law, perhaps a colleague has the data. I'd ask you if you had the data to bring it closer to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u216	Unfortunately, such data, Minister, we do not have data to distinguish compensation for a period of martial law. But I just want to add one more thing. Because we're talking about subtracting this data, but I'm asking the Senate to point out that we've just talked about the possibility that someone next to this judgment that he already has, and has already been compensated for completely unrelated harm, but related to the ruling... is going to apply for compensation. So here, with this subtraction, we need to be careful, and we really need to be gentle in this case, because we do not know in what direction the judicial practice will be, what will be the amount of these compensations, whether they will be higher or lower than in the case of enforcement of the judgment. So that really these calculations are. Perhaps it is. they are not fully accurate, perhaps there is a certain surplus here, but absolutely should not be treated in such a way that they will definitely be 10% from this. Something in this number calculated by the projector is, and the data provided by the minister is certainly also a good picture of the whole already decided, already settled cases under the February Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u217	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[I, as Senator rapporteur...]] As Senator Rapporteur? Minister, thank you very much so far. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Of course. Thank you very much.]] Please, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u218	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, this math is, I think, imprecise. Because, as I said before, by 2006 the legal situation was what we are now calling for, i.e. the courts had a duty to take into account I think they took into account both the fact of the damage in respect of e.g. Internment, as well as other related effects. As I said, in 2006 as a result of the lack of proper coordination, other effects were removed and until then, i.e. until the adoption of this law, those other effects could not be covered by claims. So that this amount is going to be smaller. Because if we assume that since 1956 80,000 judgments have been passed, judgments for... have been annulled, if it is true that all of these persons have had claims, which is not the same, and that this amount is on average 16 thousand PLN, then this level of claims will eventually cover only the years 2006 to 2016. Let us add that they are generally interned or persecuted or subject to other persecutions. And actually the amount of these 25 thousand zlotys is growing, and I know this case. Up to PLN 100 thousand after the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and here there may be large increases. But the biggest increase It doesn't make me want to copy or evaluate this amendment. It will extend this law to the group that you asked Senator Czerwiński about. So, as far as compensation has so far only been given due to internment or other behaviours which were clearly decision-making, this already includes this whole group of people called the opposition belonging to... [[Voice from the room: No...]] Yes, Mr. Senator, that's the amendment... Art. 8... This is the amendment of the movement on December 13, and here it is covered by the whole, that is, everything that is included in the records adopted in the previous Senate term, i.e. from opposition to repressed persons. So, as I mentioned, this is the 13 groups that were generally left undecided. The BOLO was a decision, it was easy to verify, but in the event of participation in the demonstration there was no decision, it is possible to verify this both in the police documents and in the statement of evidence before the court. And I think those who calculated it, but, as I say, it's best for the veterans' office to do it because he's been doing these things... This may result in such estimates as this concern exists in the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u219	Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] In what mode? [[One more question I would like to address to the Senator of the rapporteur.]] One more question? All right, I'll allow it. Senator rapporteur, one more question and we are moving on to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u220	Mr. Senator, isn't the purpose of this bill, firstly, to eliminate the time limit and, secondly, to extend the entities covered by it to family members who may claim such compensation? And the third target... Well, that's basically two main goals, which is actually to widen the circle of those who can claim this compensation. And it seems that this mainly applies to activists who were after 1981. And I guess that's it. Because we're going too far in here, we're blurring this bill on the principle that one or the other will come in, that today everyone will be asking for some extra compensation... [[Question, question, Senator.]] No, a lot of people got that compensation, just...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u221	Question's been answered. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u222	The enlargement that you spoke of by the Minister of Justice, then the Ombudsman's employee... There is a broadening of the subjective scope in this way, that people who have embraced us talk about this internment, because it was the most common form. The additional repercussions... Well, even if that fellow Mirror was hiding, he wasn't interned and he was hiding. As an intern, he didn't get anything because he wasn't being punished. But also the courts of Gdansk That's what I know. Although not in this case, they considered that such a person was entitled to nothing, because if he was not intern, he could work, he could be with his family. And I remember this case, where the expected compensation of PLN 356 thousand, the famous court of Gdańsk reduced to probably PLN 120 thousand, because it ruled that since this person did not undergo internment, it was as if she had lived normally. And since she was alive, Normally, this compensation could have been lower. But families can in any case be present... both from our Senate Act and from the one for recognition as null and void, which dates back to 1956.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u223	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning of the first and perhaps basic remark: it is good that this law is being considered by us, it is good that we want to bring this project to the Sejm, just the time it is time for this. We want Poland to be fair. And if so, we need to settle ourselves fairly, both with negative figures that were against Poland on behalf of the Soviet Union and with positive figures. This first account, negative, I don't think it's gonna be possible to finish, it's all gonna be separated by a famous big line. And perhaps well, from a certain point of view, although certainly not from the point of view of justice. And the positive settlement, with those who fought for independent, sovereign and just Poland, is still ahead of us. These people are getting less and less, maybe we'll have to settle up. In quotation marks With their families. But it's just necessary for us to build Poland on the right foundation. And since we are the House of Reflection and we usually judge the Sejm, I would like to avoid such a case that the Sejm will show us in the project that we have passed to it, to the Lower Chamber, some errors in this bill, and therefore I will bring two amendments to the hands of your marshals; I will briefly discuss them. One of these concerns the addition of an article. 8b. The point is that this article uses the terminology of the law it refers to, i.e. Act of 2015 on anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed persons. And that is why I propose that we clarify this legislative provision, that is to say about anti-communist opposition activists or those who are being repressed with a confirmed status. This is important, because this is the wording of the above-mentioned law. and that they will receive compensation for the damage suffered and compensation resulting from the repression for the activities referred to in Article. 2 and 3 precisely that basic law, for which the said Article provides. 8b call. The second amendment concerns the point of the amendment itself. This amendment resulted from the fact that the legislator swapped the words derived from the issue in the wording of the damage suffered and compensation for the harm suffered by the decision or judgment resulting from the execution. It narrowed down the subject circle. And that follows the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal and a certain injustice of this law. Now, in turn, we are converting the wording from the performance to the resulting from the edition. I propose that, for safety reasons, use the phrase "harms and harms resulting from the issue or execution" to avoid leaving any group. I repeat: from the issuing or enforcement of a judgment or decision. What does that mean? In such a case, we will include both those who have suffered damage and harm in connection with the decision or decision, as well as those who have suffered damage and harm in connection with their implementation. It will certainly be safer, it will include both subject groups. I'm not sure these two subject groups are interpenetrating... I mean, they're definitely interpenetrating, but they're not... Maybe another way: isn't there a separation part of both of these harvests? If this part were to be separated, I would prefer that, by means of this consistency, or that part, it should be consummated by this law. The point is that this bill is just complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u225	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Those people who suffered damage as a result of action against the regime that ruled in Poland, compensation is simply due, and this is an obvious matter. Sometimes I hear it's some kind of reward. No, it's not a reward. This is compensation. Or else, compensation. [[Make amends sound nicer.]] That's what I say at first, because sometimes I hear voices like this: you admit awards to each other. No, it's not a reward. I also want to say that by looking at the work on this bill and the work on the previous one, you can recall the principle: better is the enemy of good. We took these laws very responsibly. I don't blame you, but I think the social organizations that gather former activists, etc., well, they don't have to judge the possibilities... they don't have to count. And I want to say 'Cause I know it was. That we were under the pressure of these organizations all the time... [[We're still here.]] We're not gonna be anymore. ...who said it wasn't enough that it needed more... And I understand that. It's understandable to me. But the concerns of the Minister of Finance of another government are also understandable, that these sums will be so large that they will get out of control. Based on my experience and my assessment of martial law in the Gdansk region, I want to say what order It could be numbers. There were 10,000 400 people interned at war. [[In Poland?]] Of course in Poland, I'm not talking about Chile. [[Mr. Marshal said in Gdansk.]] I'm talking about Poland, Mr. Senator. In Poland there were 10,000 400 people. Based on my information about what it looked like in Gdansk, I estimate that about 5% People haven't been interned, I mean... Well, you have to increase that number, let's say, by 500 people, 5%. That's what I think. It was not possible to intern. So, in total, it was issued and executed, let's say, about 11,000 decisions about internment. Of course, it's not the same, because if someone wasn't interned in a year and didn't have an arrest warrant, he was going home. Arrested. How many were arrested? In Gdansk, these repressions were the sharpest. The resistance was very strong and the repression was the sharpest. I'm judging from my stats, I've been doing that stat on a regular basis. At war, about 800 people were arrested. The dominating centers in the resistance were 5. If we multiply it by 5... I can replace it with: Wrocław, Warsaw, Cracow, Szczecin and Gdańsk. If we multiply it by 5, we have 4,000 arrested, arrested. Convicted by the college. There's accurate statistics of the college convicts, she's available, now I don't remember. In any case, these longest periods are periods of internment and arrest. Minister, however I count it, the sum of compensation at the level of PLN 100 million a year is not going to work out. I understand, very possibly, that it is also necessary to limit this subjective scope, but the sum of more than 100 million a year is a sum that can terrify every finance minister. That's why I gave these numbers, and I gave these numbers to illustrate it. It gives you an opportunity to evaluate. So there are 15,000 people who have been sitting longer than, let's say, 3 months, because college is up to 3 months. So it's really... Of course, it still has to be counted, but if anyone wants to, I have the exact material from that period, the archive material. I can count it again to 10 people in terms of the Gdansk region. And finally, about Roman Drilling. I didn't cooperate with him, but I know a little about him. Roman Zwierzan is a resident of Gdynia. He wasn't on the internment list, he was wanted by an APB and wanted to be arrested. For what? I'm not gonna get into this. You know why. There were additional elements that the authorities were very afraid of, but I'm not going in either, because I didn't see the material from the investigation. I know he lived in Gdynia, was wanted by an APB, and it was a decision to arrest him. That's all I can say on the basis of my information on martial law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. The discussion is closed... [[Senator Rulewski asked for the floor.]] But do you want to speak in the discussion, Senator? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Formal conclusion. [[It's about the passage... can I?]] But that's in a minute, isn't it? [[The discussion is closed...]] [[Voice from the room: No, at this point you can...]] Right now, right? There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the time But I am not talking about the time for the Senate, I am talking about the time for those to whom the bill is addressed, which is 1956, so it can be assumed that every day the situation of those who may be awaiting the assistance of the High Chamber and later of the Sejm is becoming more difficult, and I propose to the High House, Mrs Marshal, to have the third reading of this law held during these proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u229	Good. Thank you, Senator. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: No, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. Senator Jan Rulewski has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft law still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't hear any objections. Thank you very much. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 40th anniversary of the events of June 1976 in Radom, Ursus and Płock. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 175, and the report is published in print No 175 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Adam Bielan, to present the committee's report in the draft resolution. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u230	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Legislative Committee a report on the work of the committee on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 40th anniversary of the events of June 1976 in Radom, Ursus and Płock. As the Marshal said, this report is in print 175 S. I would like to inform the High House that the applicants for this resolution are a group of senators and the senators appointed me as the representative of the applicants. The Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission on 20 May this year. At its meetings on 31 May and 7 June, the Commission examined the draft resolution presented at first reading, amended it and requested the adoption by the Senate of a uniform draft resolution annexed to it. I would like to say that the discussion between the senators of different options was very good. I would like to thank Senator Štark, Senator Żaryn and Marshal Borusewicz for their participation in this discussion, for the amendments tabled. We have been able to reach a compromise, a consensus on this matter. I will read the final compromise of this resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the celebration of the 40th anniversary of the events of June 1976 in Radom, Ursus and Płock. June 1976 is another tragic occurrence of workers against communist power in Poland. The wave of street strikes and demonstrations on 25 June 1976 covered over 80,000 workers from 24 voivodships. The protests were a response to the radical increase in food prices announced by the then government of the Polish People's Republic. The most serious events took place in Radom, Ursus and Płock, where protests and demonstrations were brutally pacified. In Radom there were dramatic street fights. According to estimates, as many as 25,000 people protested at the climax of the city's streets, against whom more than 1.5 thousand officers, equipped with sticks, gas firecrackers and water cannons, were directed by the authorities. Arrested and arrested in connection with events More than 900 people were subjected to cruel repression by the regime's media called "warlocks" or "screwers of the social order." They were treated with so-called health pathways, beaten, imprisoned, thrown out of work. Many have become disabled, often with their loved ones they have remained without means to live. Several dozens have been sentenced to years of imprisonment. The victims of the June events were two demonstrators Jan Łabęcki and Tadeusz Ząbecki. The death of Fr. Roman Kotlarz, persecuted and under surveillance, who blessed Radom workers two months earlier. Guilty of repression has escaped responsibility, and the communist crimes have expired. The retaliation of the communist authorities was additionally directed against the city of Radom itself, whose development was deliberately stopped. The effects of this are still evident today. The events of June 1976 directly contributed to the establishment of the Committee for the Defence of Workers and subsequent organizations of the opposition in August. It will form the basis for building solidarity between all social groups in Poland. So they were a milestone on the path of the Polish society to throw away communist yoke and regain freedom. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, on the 40th anniversary of the events of 25 June 1976 in Radom, Ursus and Płock, pays tribute to the victims of repression, their families and demonstrators and expresses gratitude to all those who helped them unselfishly. Let the memory of heroism and patriotism at that time trigger a sense of freedom as an invaluable value in the life of every Pole. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the draft resolution without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Marshal Adam Bielan to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No... Senator Czesław Ryszka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. The text of the resolution refers to the fact that the NRA was only created after the events of 1976. I'm not quite sure that I'm gonna say that, I'm sure, but I think that the very uprising of the NRA happened a little bit earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u233	Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u234	Senator, one of the co-authors of this resolution is Professor Żaryn, a historian who specializes, among others. in the latest history of Poland, this text was also consulted with historians from the IPN. It seems to me that these words, which are contained in the draft resolution, reflect reality.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Czesław Ryszka, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the Senate resolution on celebrating the 40th anniversary of June 1976, we honor Poles who were subjected by Communists to cruel repression for demanding civil rights and freedoms. Among them was mentioned in the resolution of Fr. Roman Kotlarz, beaten to death for participating in the manifestation of Radom workers on June 25, 1976. Fr. Roman Kotlarz was ordained priestly in 1954. He was a priest of the Sandomierz diocese, vicar in the parishes Szydłowiec, Żarnów, Koprzywnica, Mirz, Kunów and Nowa Słupia. On 26 August 1961 he became parish priest of the parish. Our Lady of Czestochowa in Pelagow near Radom. It was remembered that he was very sensitive to human poverty and injustice. In the church, he preached patriotic sermons and was therefore under constant surveillance and surveillance of officers and secret security officers. During the events of Radom June What the resolution recognises was on June 25 among the strikers from Metal Works in Radom. From the steps of the Holy Trinity Church in Radom, he blessed the protesting workers and prayed loudly with the words of the Holy Mother, who was standing under the cross, bless those children who desire daily bread. That's how it was written in the SB memo. He was to pay dearly for his insubordinate conduct in the eyes of the authorities. Called to the Provincial Prosecutor's Office in Radom, he was warned that his sermons constitute, quote, a serious crime threatened by a severe sentence of imprisonment. As he was told, I quote, they are primitive feedings on religious sentiments. Behind the warnings were the hooligan acts of esbek. It was often seen as a black Volga pulling up to a rectory in Pelagow. Sometimes they took a priest out, and mostly he was beaten in his apartment. After a month after the events, Father Roman Kotlarz began to fade into his eyes. One day he secretly showed the altar boy Thomas the Dawn his back. They were blue, black as a casket. The altar boy testified. On August 15, Father Kotlarz collapsed during the Holy Mass. He was taken to a hospital in Krychnowice. He died three days later. There's no record of a beating in the hospital's official records. It wasn't even allowed to be mentioned, even though doctors and medical personnel saw signs of a beating. Officially, he died of a heart attack. The funeral of Father Roman Kotlarz was a great patriotic manifestation. It was attended by many workers of the June protest, thanking the priest for his moral support. The priest's body was carried several kilometers from the hospital in Krychnowice to the church in Pelagow. Father Kotlarz was buried in the family Koniemłota near Staszów. Almost immediately after the funeral, the trails and causes of Father Kotlarz's death began to fade. Even his dog was poisoned. Although investigations and trials have been initiated for several years, they have been remitted for lack of evidence. The only rehabilitations and proofs of appreciation for Father Kotlarz, which are significant, are postmortem decorations. In 1990, the President of the Republic of Poland in exile Ryszard Kaczorowski awarded him the Golden Cross of Merit with the Swords for his sacrifice of life in the fight against Communists for independent Poland. An important moment of commemoration of the hero and martyr was the speech of John Paul II during his visit to Radom on 4 June 1991. At the airport in Sadkow, the Holy Father said, among other things, quote: "During today's visits I will stop at the monument stone with the inscription: "Remembrance of people hurt in connection with the labor protest of 1976. These are close times that Radom and all of Poland have deeply recorded in their memory. It can be said that 1976 was an introduction to the further events of the 1980's. They cost many victims, arrests, humiliations, torture, especially those practiced under the name of health paths, death, among others. one of the Sandomierz pastors By all this they paved the way for the human desire for justice. The end of the words of the Holy Father. Thanks to Radom activists, in 1996 the roundabout from which Reja street leads to the square in front of the Jesuit church was named priest Roman Kotlarz. There was also a stone with a cross and a commemorative plaque. Ten years later, a papal oak was planted there. On May 3, 2009, President Lech Kaczyński posthumously honored Father Kotlarz Króż Kommandorski with the Star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. In addition to these decorations, living human memory and caring for it in many environments is important. A few years ago, efforts began unofficially to announce Father Roman Kotlarz as a blessed martyr of faith. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, the protest of Radom workers in defending the dignity of working people in June 1976 is an important card of our history. Unfortunately, our knowledge of the crimes and executions of Father Kotlarz is still circumstantial. The then Radom Bishop Edward Materski put it in such words, and I quote: "The faces of martyrs are always discovered and rich in glory. Hangovers cover their faces. In 2008 a trial of 28 former ZOMO officers began in Radom District Court, which prosecutors of the Institute of National Remembrance accused of committing a communist crime, namely the physical and psychological abuse of almost 30 people detained in connection with the labor protest in Radom. They said they didn't beat anybody up. and did not organize health pathways during which they were handcuffed, passed through the choppers of officers who beat them with assault clubs, fists and kicked them. None of the zombies admitted their guilt, some even claimed that the so-called health paths had been learned from the media long after the Radom protest. You can see that worldly courts are out of the question. Maybe the judges in a possible beatification process of priest Roman Kotlarz will reach church archives, because such exist, there are testimony of priest Kotlarz, talks with bishop Valentine Wójcik. And maybe then our knowledge of Radom June will be fuller. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u237	Thank you very much, senators. I'd like to speak with Senator Grażyna Sztark.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u238	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to thank Marshal Bielan warmly for this valuable initiative and for the fact that we have been able to adopt this very important resolution in full consensus. Because there's never enough memory of these events, of these people. They just deserve it. And in fact, I would no longer have anything to add to this resolution, but I would like, in the Convention of the previous Act... For many of the oppressed have not applied and will never seek compensation. They just need a word: thank you. And from this place never enough thanks and memory of those who have lost their lives, their families, their loved ones, but also people who have found a worthy place in this resolution, i.e. those who unselfishly helped in Radom, Ursus and Płock. At the time, these men were threatened by repression. And that's why I want to direct... I regret very much that there is no... that a man from our midst came out at that time, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, who was also in that place. And I'd like to thank you from here, too... Of course you're Marshal Romaszewski. But it's worth remembering the people who are among us. And it's worth thanking these people. Thank you, too, because if it weren't for that selfless, big help at the time, it's... Solid aid, because that's what started us in the '80s. Because if it weren't for that help and those people, then perhaps never people like me and my friends living in small towns would have had the courage to act in war against totalitarian power. When we were sentenced to prison and to colleagues Mr. Marshal Borusewicz was then the informal head of the underground structure of the Central Pomerania, and we were able to count on help, money and help for the imprisoned and convicted families. Thank you, 'cause I'm telling you again. It's worth thanking. It's worth thanking all of this because money isn't always the most important thing. It is important to help, and it is worth thanking each and every one of you. We also need to remind you of Marshal Romaszewski. I thank you once again, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, for all that we were able to receive after years, among others. from the representatives of the Workers' Defence Committee, from the people of solidarity, through the small ones, and from the people of Solidarity, to the big ones. Thank you very much and once again, Mr. Marshal, thank you for your good cooperation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u239	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u240	I briefly added to what Senator Shark said. Thank you very, very much for this initiative, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much everyone and from the opposition, and from the ruling party, for being able to vote it out together and in harmony and in a good atmosphere. Thank you very much for the words of Mrs. Shark addressed to Marshal Borusewicz. I'm just gonna ask for something like this. 'Cause I think it would be a good idea for the Marshal's statement to be included in the minutes of this resolution today. The Marshal should bear witness to what it was like back then. Later it was us 10 million, and then these people left and not so many had the courage to support them directly. So that if you were... If you'd agreed, Mr. Marshal, I would have asked you very much to give a witness at that time. Thank you. [[I'm sure the marshal will.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u241	Thank you very much, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. Does Marshal Borusewicz still wish to speak? [[Yeah, yeah.]] You're welcome. [[If Mr. Marshal starts telling stories, by midnight...]] Unfortunately, Mr. Marshal only has ten minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u242	And I thought thank you was a dead man. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: And are you the Senator...]] I'm not going to Powązki. I'll be in Gdansk, I'll probably be in Gdansk. What I'm trying to say is that this resolution is important because it's 40 years old. Listening to our words reminds me of those times. Human memory is unreliable, so I refreshed it a little, also because I also worked on this resolution. I want to thank the senator, Marshal Bielan, for this resolution and for the constructive work he did. There was no pulling one way or the other. This resolution is reliable, also reliable, in terms of those who died, and priest Roman Kotlarz. Radom was very unpleasant at the time, very unfriendly. I don't remember this town very well. Then, of course. Poor, scared people who ran if you wanted to ask them on the street: what happened to you? It was actually Poland not B, but C. Poland A are those big cities in the west, Warsaw, Gdańsk. Poland B is Lublin. A Radom is undoubtedly Poland C. So these trips I attended, and for the first time I was in Radom around 13 September, were not pleasant trips, not only because we were always always waiting for a welcome committee in the form of SB officers, militias, but also because the whole atmosphere was an atmosphere of intimidation, poverty and hopelessness. But Radom and the vocation of the NRA, and then the further action of the opposition... Radom turned out to be a victory because after a year everyone And some had ten-year prison sentences. And as a result of the social pressure of the small, it seemed, groups of people were released. Everyone's gone. Well, then they put in a dozen members of the NRA, which means... And power, through repression, strengthened the opposition. Because then you had to defend yourself. And then it turned out that there were other people besides Radom. And besides June. The beatings, the arrests... and the movement was created, which was the basis for the great Solidarity. I say this and I stress that the solidarity did not come from anything. That's why this Radom is so important, and that's why this form of public activity, this new form... It was a completely new form. She turned out to be, to the surprise of everyone, effective. We were used to this kind of action, that if someone wanted to oppose power, organize, then what was he doing? Yeah, he started a secret organization. And for a secret organization... power knew how to proceed. Here for the first time a completely different form of movement was born. You have to admit, in a different situation. During the Stalinist period, a clear action would, of course, be a homicide. But what I'm trying to say is that a lot of people who decided to act openly were expecting the worst. I want to talk about a few things that aren't very familiar. Well, this spontaneous movement was created on the basis of action against changes in the constitution in 1974 and 1975. Students, intellectuals, intellectuals... Well, there weren't many of them. First of all, the student community. When Radom and former repression took place, Warsaw first took care of Ursus and through Ursus reached Radom, and we in Gdańsk began to raise money. So my colleagues, who then entered the Young Poland Movement, also me, began to raise money. And I started going to Radom, you could say blindly because no one knew us from Radom. After my third trip, I went to court. Turns out there are cases of Radom demonstrators, the June ones. And it turned out that there was a group from Warsaw; we met quite accidentally. I'll remind you who was in this group from Warsaw. There were: Zofia Winawer, Jan Tomasz Lipski, Mirosław Chojecki, Antoni Macierewicz, Ludwik Dorn. Everyone after a few things... We've been on the case as observers. At some point, of course, there was interest and everyone was picked up except Chojecki and me. Chojecki wasn't there, and I did it. We did it, and... Unfortunately, Louis Dorn was beaten at the station. Mirosław, Mirek Chojecki was then beaten several times when they caught him. I ran away, and they caught him, so he got hit for me, double, later. Radom, I'll say yes. He was intimidated, really. My colleagues from Lublin... Zdzisław Bradel from KUL, whom I asked, started driving and looking for contacts on the basis of the Church. There were no volunteers. There really wasn't anyone willing to make those contacts. Two assistants from Radom, assistants from the Higher Engineering School, Jan Rejczak and his colleague, whose name I can't remember, were the only ones I could rely on. And of course, the health pathways, the horrible stories that were... they were beaten by these people, they were beaten by workers. Those who came to court were also beaten by violence. So who's been going on these cases? Jacek Kuroń, patron of Force-Nowicki, also Halina Mikołajska decided to go; it seemed that women would not beat. In addition, Henryk Wujec, Jan Litynski, Zosia and Zbigniew Romaszewscy, Wojciech Fałkowski, who was here presenting the Act of the Ministry of National Defence... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wojciech Fałkowski used to go there, too. I wanted to tell him to stay, but I didn't make it. So they were people like that. And I have to say, it's been very dangerous there for a while. Really. And the women got hit, too. However, it was important that these people were helped and that we could give this concrete help. KOR. Why was the NRA formed? At some point, we realized that our personal contacts themselves were too small, too small to raise the right amount of money, and that security was already beginning to interest us. So as I talked to my colleagues and we decided how to do it, at least in a public way, so that we knew that we were here and not disappeared. And in KOR there were two groups of older countries, such as over 70s, mostly PPS activists, but also the head of the Kedyw region of Rybicki or priest Zieja. So it was two generations, I have to say, two generations. There was no generation of 40- and 50-year-olds. Here you can see that Stalin's period has ripped out. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to remind you of other repressions, other ways of repression. There we met for the first time with taking into the army, the People's Army of Poland, as a kind of repression. Three camps, several hundred people, maybe 600, military calls, and Jacek Kuroń went to camp. It was the repression, but they were no longer effective. Stopping, arresting, but most of all stopping. In Gdansk... I would like to say that in Gdańsk Shipyard three departments in June were on strike and in addition two plants in Gdańsk Pruszcz were on strike, medium-sized. At least 67 people were expelled from work, 2 people were arrested for cutting the electrical cable in Gdańsk Shipyard. This list was provided to me by Anna Młynik and Janusz Białych, students of the medical academy who received a cleaning order in the work court and immediately checked all the drawers. Turns out there's an address list. Now I can tell you where this list came from and why the exact information I had. But Radom, of course Ursus and Plock... Where did Plock come from? I'll tell you, I'll tell you where Płock came from, where the information from Płock... [[Because Mark's from there.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Why information from Płock? Well, in Płock he worked, was head of the civic department and of course he was a member of the party, Wiesław Jasiński, from whom Jarosław Kaczyński received accurate information, how many were detained, not a registered list. It was a terrible, unique secret that I found out about after a few years... But if I hear voices about Jasinski Member of the party, etc., etc. Although it's a different option, I'd like to say, and that's why I'm saying that his credit was very high. Jarosław Kaczyński learned about Płock from Jasiński, who studied law at the University of Warsaw with him and Lech Kaczyński. Hence the information, hence the possibilities. About... There's one more thing I want to say. Mr. Senator, I know you, and maybe you're right, looking for sanctity, etc., it works... I'm not gonna get into this, but... I'm not talking about Father Kotlarz, that he wasn't a brave man, that he didn't preach, but the circumstances of death were a little different. And, of course, I wish we had another saint. But when Zofia Romaszewska applied to the bishop who did not go to the funeral of priest Kotlarz, she was treated badly. The bishop didn't want to talk about it at all. She thought she might give us some information, but he didn't want to talk at all. Well, I understand fear because everyone was scared, but it's not like the higher the hierarchy, the greater the merit. And last but not least, thank you very much for reminding me, but my credit wasn't actually that big. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'll ask Senator Dorota Czudowska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not say much because at that time, difficult for Poland, and extremely important for our history, I was only in my second year of studies at the Medical Academy in Bialystok. And I'm going to give you this one reason for all the information that's already gone down today because the senators have already told you about what happened outside these centers... I'm sure you all know this, but I would like this to be recorded in this discussion too. I think that not only at the Medical Academy in Bialystok, but at all universities, students were called at the rally. And the indoctrination was sharp. Only then did I admit it for the first time, I opened my eyes, because then I did not live so much politics. That's when I first heard the word "warts." And I thought, how could a medical student who was posted by the university authorities to indoctrinate us say such things about workers? I was from the so-called. A worker... I was with a worker's résumé... I mean, not with a résumé, but with such information in the résumé about origin. And I knew the workers' lives because I grew up in the country where the brown coal mines were. It is in Lubuskie voivodship, Łęknica district, Żary, Łużyce and I know how the workers worked, I know how my dad worked. And I was thinking, where did you get a med student like that from? Does the fifth year know... what he even knows about working life? And also to repeat such words of nudge, rebelling us, the fact that we as students, intellectual power of the nation, present and present, must do everything to ensure that the radom and warlords do not spread to the whole of Poland... I think it's worth remembering, too. And it's cynical, extremely cynical for us, for doctors exceptionally, to define these famous health paths. It's gonna go down in history that beating people up, torture people, that's what they call it. Thank you very much. So briefly I wanted to say about those rallies that were probably at all universities at the time, because I don't think mine was chosen in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u245	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm gonna ask Professor Jan Żaryn to speak. Professor, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Several comments concerning 1976, including some corrections and polemics in relation to Marshal Borusewicz's statement. Well, when it comes to 1976, it is undoubtedly necessary to mention the spontaneous reaction that occurred in the environment of intelligence, especially the young one, in the environment of the Black One. I was very surprised when I realized that the marshal didn't mention these people. Black One, a very beautiful tradition of scouting team named Romuald Traugutt in high school general education in Warsaw at least since the 1960s, older creators of Black One, among them. Marek Barański, Professor Marek Barański, now retired long-time academic at the University of Warsaw, then Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University, medieviist, otherwise very well-known figure, at least in the community of historians, and of course Those slightly younger, namely Antoni Macierewicz, and then Piotr Naimski, Wojciech Onyszkiewicz and many, many others, also mentioned here Wojciech Fałkowski. It was the Black One environment that first reacted, young people, in popular language, to the spontaneity that gave a very clear response to the repressed workers, especially in Radom. And it was them, and specifically Antoni Macierewicz, Piotr Naimski and Wojciech Onyszkiewicz, who were the inventors and can be said that in this sense also Although the word I'm going to use can be discussed, surely among historians The creators of the Workers' Defence Committee. Because they were 100%. The authors, but also the authors of the first version of the document, the communication that appeared in public space on 23 September 1976. Their whole idea was that because they are small but not growing, only small in the sense that they do not have any social power, because they are then unknown to young people, so you have to rely on authority. And they were the ones who were looking for all the people mentioned by your marshal, who might have assumed responsibility for something that might have ended, of course. very tragic, i.e. great repressions against young people or older people who could have been more easily captured by the Security Service and no one would have claimed them if it hadn't been for the very construction in which the authorities of that time were involved, among others. The priest Zieja and many others mentioned here, who in turn took it may not be a risk, but, above all, the task of proving what is already in the great letter, that is, Solidarity. And that's the first point. The second point is, of course, that the events of 1976 actually took place throughout Poland; my previous speaker spoke about one of these centres. So that very important events in the awareness of these particular cities are and function, and on a national scale are not recognized. These are the 24 places in Poland, the cities where these events took place. One such place was Szczecin, which we remember from 1970, from 1980, from 1988, and it turns out that in 1976 the workers also arose and repressions were very hard, i.e. They were primarily dismissals, wolf tickets, only for trying to get them to strike. Very common in various plants and in the shipyard of Warska, and elsewhere It didn't work out because there was still a memory of the tragedy of 13 killed in December 1970. Nevertheless, the courage was so large in this work elite of Szczecin that they were able to mobilize themselves. And for mobilization alone, these people were severely repressed. And last but not least, the question of the Church's affairs. Indeed, what is widely known about the Church's reaction in 1976 is probably limited to one statement: the Church has done nothing. Well, I would like to inform you kindly that the Church did very much at that time, as for the possibilities in which it functioned as a hierarchical church during the period of the Polish People's Republic. First of all, he reacted, and if we took into account the calendar of events, it would turn out that he reacted first. I know that in our memory, people living in the Polish People's Republic, it is that the Church generally reacts as the last one, because somewhere there she forgets, she has to think about it, and only then begins to react. This was also our awareness during the period of the Polish People's Republic. We'd like him to react faster, but he's out there somewhere, like he's late. But when you confront the documents, it turns out that's not true. That was just our assumption at the time. Because the Church, of course, didn't tell us what she was doing. Namely, already on July 16, 1976, the Polish Episcopate sent two letters, one official letter of the Polish Episcopate to Edward Gierek and Piotr Jaroszewicz, in which he stigmatized the power for the fact that the increase was made public by surprise. The reaction of the workers is therefore understandable and obvious and the Church will defend the workers. The same content, although expressed in much harder words, will be given to Edward Gierek in a personal letter sent on the same day by the Primate of the Millennium Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński. Never in his life did Primate Stefan Wyszyński brag about this letter, he said about it, himself, publicly, only at the first Polish Episcopate conference. But it was a document that we did not know, of course, during the period of the Polish People's Republic, and now few historians have access to these materials. The first conference of the Polish Episcopate took place after the June events, on 8 and 9 September 1976, and there the Primate Stefan Wyszyński once again discussed labour laws, which he himself knew perfectly as a priest dealing with the working environment before the war in the Diocese of Włocław. And he was the author of this communication, which was published publicly on 9 September 1976, a communication in which he was told directly to the authorities what to do, i.e., first of all: stop repression of workers, make amends for the harm that power has done to workers, and bring everyone back to work, as it should be done in a civilized country. I am talking about this, ladies and gentlemen, to give a clear signal that really it was not fear that was ever the driving force for decision-making in the case of the Polish Episcopate. Fear didn't exist at all. as a category among bishops. And you can see that very clearly from all the documents I know as a historian dealing with this issue for several decades now. However, regardless of fear, there were, of course, other very serious reasons why otherwise a wonderful and well-known person, Mrs.Zofia Romaszewska, Bishop Gołębiewski did not accept in 1976 as a completely unknown person, who would ask the bishop to speak publicly on any matter. It was a PRL, not a free Europe or a free world. Therefore, it was not fear, only the rules directed by the Polish Episcopate caused that bishop Gołębiewski, the Sandomierz bishop, could not, of course, speak at that time. Because it was the Polish Episcopate that was to speak and the primate Stefan Wyszyński, such were the rules in the episcopate. Forgive me, Mr. Marshal, but then the bishop should listen to his primate more than anyone else. [[Mr. Senator...]] And the last sentence. Father Roman Kotlarz is definitely the victim of 1976. The man was murdered de facto for 2 months from July to the end of August 1976. He's been assaulted several times by the Security Service, so-called. unknown perpetrators, beaten unconscious, blue back... Undoubtedly, a man with a weak mental structure has gone crazy and died. And it's also a murder, even though it didn't last a second, not a second, just two months. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u247	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski. [[Bravo, Professor...]] [[He's not crazy. He's depressed.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to congratulate the authors and Senator Marshal Bielan, who was the rapporteur of this project. It is very good that during the current events we remember an important event from the history of the Polish People's Republic, an event that actually played a bigger role than usual this event is attributed, because we usually focus on 1956, 1970, the tragedy of December events, 1980, or the martial state in 1981. 1976, as far as Radom is concerned, there is a certain limit date for this issue in the resolution. Because structures have started to form more, let's call it organized and acting in a legal way, although they themselves are illegal. I am thinking here about the Committee for the Defence of Workers and other opposition environments, because soon after the Human Rights and Citizens Movement was formed, and the democratic opposition began to crystallize in the times of the Polish People's Republic. But, referring to Senator Żaryn's statement, I would like to quote a passage from the Polish Episcopal Conference on 8 and 9 September, which asked the authorities about, quote: not to hold any repression against the workers participating in the protests against the excessive price increase of food products intended by the government in June. And then the Polish Episcopal Conference appealed, quote: "The workers who participated in these protests would need to be restored to their rights, social and professional status. So under the conditions of the totalitarian state or quasi-totalitarian, which was the Polish People's Republic in the second decade of the Game Age, they were very strong and very important words, the role of which cannot be underestimated. High Izbo, it is worth recalling that these events were also in a certain socio-political and economic context. Well, as many of us remember, in 1975 a reform of administration was carried out and Radom was appointed... a voivodeship. It was this Poland with 49 voivodships. And Radom, as a city, also in some sense gained the chance to improve its prestige, its rank as an important administrative centre, in the future also academic. I would like to point out that the communist authorities were absolutely not expecting protests in Radom. From the documents, it is known that by preparing this drastic increase, and it is worth quoting what it was... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs. Marshal, there's such a whisper that it's hard to... [[Senator, you're welcome, because at 7:00, we were supposed to announce a recess, so...]] I'm the one who can stop, I can stop... [[Don't interrupt, please continue. You're welcome.]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. So a direct pretext is usually accepted. ♪ Though it wasn't quite like that ♪ The presentation by Prime Minister Piotr Jaroszewicz in his then Seym on 24 June 1976 of a project prepared by a member of the Council of State, Edward Babiuch, notabene the later Peerel Prime Minister, which provided for drastic increases in food prices: meat and meat products on average by 69%; butter and cheese By 50%; by 100% sugar; by 150% rice ; veggies by 30%. These increases were supposed to enter into force three days later. What was that all about? The point was that the propaganda of the state's success and economic inability behind it meant that the costs of the modernization which was then carried out were intended to be passed on to the citizens. On the other hand, statistical results were juggled. Because the increases that were then were presented in such a way that they were not really increases. 'Cause it's gonna cost a sausage, it's gonna cost cheese, it's gonna cost the eggs, but it's gonna cost the locomotive. So the average value of these increases... I'm not kidding. He who remembers that time knows how propaganda was practiced and what arguments were used. And that's why it's not prepared in Radom for possible protests... It was supposed that the protests could be in Warsaw, they could be on the Coast, i.e. in Gdańsk and in Szczecin, but Radom was not foreseen. Therefore, in Radom the then reserves of police forces and the ZOMO were, it seems, 75 people. It wasn't until later that reinforcements were pulled from headquarters, but in such a way that the scale... Notabene, events that took place in the metal industry at the time, the architect, i.e. the armored par excellence plants. In fact, there were produced and famous typewriters, and windmills from which young people learned to shoot, but also machine guns Kalashnikov and equipment of a military nature were all the more shocking to the authorities that they considered working in these plants to be in some sense surgically tested by the respective peerel services. And there was no right for any such situation to happen. And that's why it was a shock to the authorities. And it was also a breakthrough in organizing society. That is why Radom events must be treated in a special way. I am very pleased, as I mentioned at the outset, that this resolution was prepared, that we will proceed over it and that it will enter into force on the 40th anniversary. But I would also like to point out that the atmosphere of that time and the event that took place later on 16 October 1978, i.e. the election of Pope John Paul II, i.e. Cardinal Charles Wojtyla for the Holy See, was the consequence of events in which the Church undoubtedly played a very important role. And if it had not been for this role of the Church in those times, today often may a little for various reasons, political, ideological or other, depreciated, there would have been no later solidarity. And I put the thesis that, in fact, the breakthrough event that initiated the transformations in Central and Eastern Europe was on June 2, 1979, when John Paul II in Warsaw at the feast of Pentecost said: "Let your Spirit descend and change the face of this land." This simply resulted in the emergence of Solidarity in a sense. Of course... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...I do not take credit for those who were members and participants of the democratic opposition of the 1970s, to which I belonged in some way. So thank you very much... [[Thank you, Senator...]] ...for this resolution, and I hope that we will make it in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u249	Thank you, Senator. Senator Stanisław Rooster is still asking for your vote. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I promised you a marshal, two minutes, and I'll keep my word. I really congratulate you on this resolution, and I would just like to add to the wonderful speech of Senator Żaryn, that, Dear Lords, the communist authorities in Radom have fought decisively against the workers. After all, we must remember that the KC PZPR Secretary-in-Office, Mr.Gierek, made festivities at Radomiak Stadium, called out all the workers at the workplace to publicly brand, shouted that it was the warlords who undertook to overthrow the communist system, that it was counterrevolution. And in Warsaw a communist poet, Mr Stanisław Ryszard Dobrowolski, who at the Stadium of the Tenth anniversary also... was gathered from all over Warsaw superwarts who were against the opposition, and actually branded, screamed at the Stadium of the Tenth anniversary just at the heroic workers of Radom. There will still be an opportunity and time to talk about other resolutions, because one cannot forget the heroic railwaymen in Lublin in war, the heroic railwaymen in Wrocław and many, many other things. And that's all I'm saying, Professor, I'm sorry, I just wanted to say about these two events, like communists. They mentally destroyed workers in Radom and Warsaw. Like famous poets whose books should disappear from the libraries... And he was actually a watchman, branded hero workers from Radom. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I didn't exceed two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u251	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Andrzej Kaminski made his speech in the minutes. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. We proceed with the review of item 17 of the agenda: the law amending the Act amending the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 193 and the report of the Commission In print No 193 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Health Commission, a law amending the Act amending the Law on the Information System in Health and certain other laws. This title sounds rather strange, but unfortunately it is a law more legal than a medical law, so I apologize in advance for a language that will not be a medical language, but a mainly legal language. This law was addressed to the committee today. The Health Committee looked into it today. This law contains two amendments. The first amendment is contained in Article. 1 The law amending the Law amending the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and certain other laws consists in adding paragraph 3b in Article. 48 of the Act of 9 October 2015 amending the Law on the Information System in Health Care and certain other laws and aims to allow for the amendment of the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 28 October 2015 on prescriptions issued by nurses and midwives. This regulation was issued on the basis of the Act of 15 July 2011 on the Competition of Nurses and Midwives, pursuant to Article. Article 15a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 8 points 3. That Regulation shall be maintained pursuant to Article. 48 (1) (a) 1 point 5 of the Act of 9 October 2015 amending the Act on the Information System in Health Care and certain other laws until the date of the adoption of a new prescription regulation concerning both medical and nursing prescriptions, including electronic prescriptions, pursuant to Article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 12 of the Law of 6 September 2001 on pharmaceutical law, but not later than 1 January 2018. Since, in accordance with the principles of legislative technique, a regulation maintained in force cannot be amended unless the provision of the law expressly allows such an option, adapted in the draft law which I am talking about, Article. 48 (1) (a) 3b gives you the opportunity. The second amendment proposed in this Act is an amendment which extends by 12 months, i.e. from 6 to 18, the deadline for the National Health Fund to adapt the monitoring system for drug programmes to the drug programmes provided for in the Act of 12 May 2011 on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices. National Health Fund pursuant to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Act of 9 October 2015 amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws had 6 months, counting from the date of its entry into force, to introduce into the system the monitoring of drug programmes resulting from the drug programmes implemented. These 6 months are due to expire on 13 June 2016, i.e. in a few days. In view of the need to fully incorporate these data into the scheme indicated and to adapt to it on 1 July 2017 the provision of the Law of 27 August 2004 on the provision of public-funded health care as set out in the Act of 9 October 2015 which entered into force. There are a number of articles here which provide that a condition for the settlement of the costs of the medicine used under the drug scheme and the costs of the healthcare services related thereto is the correct and timely transmission of data to the system. It is necessary to extend the period provided for the National Health Fund for the introduction of all necessary data and to postpone the deadline of 13 June 2016 to 13 June 2017. The Health Committee, after today's meeting, asks the High House to adopt this law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u253	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Piotr Gryza from the Ministry of Health is with us. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: No. Thank you.]] Thank you, Minister. Good. Thank you very much. Do any of you senators have a question for the Minister? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No questions. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. [[Voice from the room: No one signed up.]] Nobody signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to announce a recess by 9:00 p.m., but before that happens, I'm asking the senator to present a message.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u254	The joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and of the Legislative Commission on proposals for a draft law amending the Act on the recognition of invalid judgments issued against persons repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State, the printing of Senate No 109 S, will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room No 176. Meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the examination of applications up to 3 laws: Law on the amendment of the Law on Higher Education, print No. 178, Law on the amendment of the Law on Higher Education and Law on the amendment of the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws, print No. 179, and Law on the amendment of the Law on Research Institutes, print No. 181, will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in the proceedings in room No. 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u255	Thank you very much, Senator. Dismissed until 9:00 p.m. There will be a vote at 9:00. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 15 to 21 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u256	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is included in print No 191. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee. [[One second, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee at its meeting on 7 June adopted a draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on changes in the composition of Senate committees. I'll read the project because it's very short. - I'm sorry. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, §2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, elects Senator Michał Potniczy to the Legislative Commission. §3. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u258	Thank you. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I don't see any volunteers. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 81 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 54]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on public procurement and certain other laws. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 174 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very difficult bill and there are a lot of amendments. Therefore, legislative amendments, which do not contain material content in the law, have been blocked so that they can be voted together and the other amendments are detailed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u260	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? No. Let me remind you that the committee has withdrawn its amendments 60, 82, 90, 96. They are in print No 174 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. I would like to ask the High House to vote jointly on the amendments of the committee to the Act amending the Law I propose that the following amendments be voted in block: 1 If I don't hear the voices of the opposition... There isn't. We will therefore vote on the amendments I have mentioned in the block. Who is in favour of the amendments I have mentioned? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, all in favour. [[Voting No 55]] The block of amendments I have read has been accepted. Now I'm asking for a moment of patience, because I can't make a mistake... Amendments 7 and 120 remove from the catalogue the exemptions in question from the law on public procurement, which are subject to certain forestry services. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 27 against, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 56]] The amendments were rejected. Amendments 8 and 122 exclude from the public procurement regime contracts awarded by the manager of a special economic zone and lay down the rules for the award of such contracts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 81 were in favour, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 57]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 9 clarifies the provision which provisions will be appropriate if the subject-matter of the contract includes contracts to which the provisions of the Public Procurement Law apply and a concession for works or service. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 in favour. [[Voting No 58]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 10... [[Voice from the Chamber: Amendment 11, Amendment 9 excluded number 10.]] Oh, you didn't mark me... Good. Amendment 11 adds a provision allowing the contracting authority, in particularly justified cases, to draw up documents, to carry out certain activities or to conduct dialogue in a language other than Polish. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 in favour. [[Voting No 59]] The amendment was accepted. Now Amendment 18. It aims to ensure that the competence to appoint a central contracting authority remains the competence of the President of the Council of Ministers and transfers the powers to the Minister responsible for economic affairs to suspend a member of the National Board of Appeal from the President of the Council of Ministers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 60]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 20 seeks to confirm compliance with the selection criteria technical or professional capacity or the financial or economic situation of other entities could not be invoked. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour. [[Voting No 61]] The amendment was accepted. [[Voice from the room: Amendment 24.]] Are you sure? Amendment 24 adapts the provisions of the Act to the model of the European procurement document. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes cast, 79 votes against, 5 against. [[Voting No 62]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 27 allows the contracting authority to request clarification from the contractor where the documents submitted raise doubts about the contracting authority. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 63]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 29 aims to ensure that the contracting authority does not specify in the description of the subject-matter of the contract the scope of the activities to be carried out by persons employed under the employment contract. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 82 senators, 32 votes against, 49 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 64]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 31 sets out a reference to the general provisions contained in the sectoral procurement rules. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 65]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 45 and 74 eliminate the submission of an offer after the deadline from the catalogue of grounds for rejecting the offer. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes cast, 83 votes against, 1 against. [[Voting No 66]] The amendment was accepted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. It really bothers me. Amendments 59 and 135 provide for a different concept of in-house procurement from the one adopted in the Act, in particular to modify the terms of the contract by free hand, lay down rules for the publication of notices on the intention to conclude the contract in this mode, the requirements to be met by the contractor and the rules for the performance of the contract, and extend the period of vacathio legis of the provisions on those contracts until 1 January 2018. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes cast, 28 votes against, 56 against. [[Voting No 67]] The amendments were rejected. Amendments 62, 114, 116 and 136 are based on the addition to the law of public procurement of regulations specifying the obligation to make public information on the intention to conclude an in-house contract and the rules for concluding such contracts and the way in which they are supervised. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 68]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 65 aims to ensure that the contracting authority continues to present to the economic operators who made themselves known at the opening of tenders the amount it intends to allocate to finance the contract before opening the tenders. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 votes, 79 for, 4 against. [[Voting No 69]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 67 seeks to ensure that the contracting authority rejects the tender even if it contains an error in calculating the cost. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 70]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 69 takes into account that the provision should provide for an updated value of the contract plus due tax on goods and services rather than a fixed value on the subject-matter of the contract plus such tax. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 71]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 73 takes into account that the life-cycle cost account is not mandatory and accepts that the list of types of costs provided for in the provision is not closed. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 72]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 87 aims to divide the conditions for exclusion into optional and mandatory conditions in defence and security contracts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 73]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 88 seeks to ensure that certificates and test reports issued by conformity assessment bodies other than those laid down in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council may also be accepted in defence and security contracts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 74]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 91 aims to better implement the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning time limits in defence and security proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 75]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 92 deletes the provision repeating another regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 76]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 103 adapts the provision to Article. 29 Sectoral Directive. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 77]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 106 makes it clear that the provision on contracts for social services and other specific services does not apply to contracts in the fields of defence and security. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 78]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 117 makes it clear that the condition for the President of the Public Procurement Office to issue a so-called interpretative opinion will be that the provisions concerned by the request for an opinion raise serious doubts or create discrepancies in case law. In addition, the amendment sets out a provision specifying the content of the request for an opinion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 79]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 119 seeks to require an entity carrying out an archival activity to publish a contract notice in the Public Information Bulletin if the value of the contract exceeds the equivalent of EUR 30 000 expressed in zloty. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 80]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 121 seeks to require the cultural operator to publish a contract notice in the Public Information Bulletin if the value of the contract exceeds the equivalent of EUR 30 000 expressed in zlotys. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 81]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 124 seeks to ensure that, where the municipal council decides to collect municipal waste from property owners where residents, the mayor or the city president do not reside, it is necessary to organise a tender under the law "Public procurement law for the collection of municipal waste from the owners of the property or for the collection and management of such waste. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 82]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 129 seeks to ensure that the rules for the award of scientific contracts set out in the Law on the Principles for the Financing of Science refer to contracts whose value exceeds the equivalent of EUR 30 000 expressed in zlotys. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 83]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the bill in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 55 for, 27 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 84]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Public Procurement and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Labour Code. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Legislative Commission have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 169 A and 169 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 85]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Labour Code. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Labour Code and some other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Legislative Commission have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they propose amendments to the Act; Senate prints Nos 170 A and 170 B. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 corrects the reference in Article. 179 of the Labour Code to be applied to the amendments made to Article. 176 of this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 86]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 complements Article. 48 (1) (a) 9 Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland in such a way that it corresponds to the changes adopted in the Labour Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[This is the law on women on the ancestor?]] Mr. Senator, please don't interrupt the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, your translation is incomprehensible.]] I'm not translating, I'm just reading the description of the amendment. Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted in favour, 83 in favour. [[Voting No 87]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 80 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 88]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Labour Code and some other laws. [[You're too old for this...]] Mr. Senator, this really bothers you. Only now that I'm voting, I know how much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act on the completion of the construction of the Swine Poręba water tank. The Environment Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 171 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 89]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the completion of the construction of the Swine Poręba Water Tank. We are back to discussing item seven of the agenda: the Wind Power Plant Investment Act. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 186 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u261	The committees proposed and voted to adopt the law without amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u262	Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! No. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the committee's proposal, supported by the joint committees to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voices from the room: No, there isn't.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: It's not working.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I read too fast. Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes, 50 for, 31 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 90]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on investment in wind power plants. We are back to discussing item 8 of the agenda: the Energy Efficiency Act. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments. Senator's print No 184 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Just a minute. Please state the results of the vote. 84 votes, 57 for, 3 against, 24 abstentions. [[Voting No 91]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Energy Efficiency Act. We are returning to the discussion of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 178 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. I would like to stress that the vote on this issue at the committee meeting was unanimous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u264	Are you Senator Kazimierz? The wind still wants to speak as an applicant? Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 votes in favour, 1 against, 79 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 92]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate has rejected... [[Voice in the courtroom:... motion for rejection...]] Please? [[Voice from the Chamber: It was 1, which means we are voting on a proposal for adoption without amendments. In view of the rejection of the motion...]] Yeah, yeah. In the face of the rejection of the bill, we are voting on Senator Kazimierz Wind's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 votes to 71, with 12 abstentions. [[Voting No 93]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Higher Education. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. The session held a meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 179 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u265	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission proposes that this law be adopted without amendment. I would also like to stress that the committee's vote on this matter was unanimous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u266	Does the senator, Senator Jan Żaryn, want to speak yet? [[No. Thank you.]] Thank you. Let me remind you that Senator Jan Żaryn withdrew his application, this is point II in print number 179 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? [[Voice from the room: No.]] I don't see any volunteers. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place... I'm sorry. We proceed to the vote on the committee's proposal supported by the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'd like to see the voice-over results, please. 83 senators voted, 80 for, 3 against. [[Voting No 94]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Research Institutes. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 181 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Zarin, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the last meeting of the committee, which took place during the adjournment, the committee rejected the motion to reject the law and adopted 2 of 3 amendments. The Commission accepted an amendment extending the scope of the Act, i.e. the state word Guaranteed and adopted a more legislative amendment, that is, the appointment clause, not the decision taken by the Minister designating the individual persons referred to in that Act. [[I have a question, which is the amendment.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] So with such a recommendation I present to the vote this draft law, we propose to adopt the law together with these 2 amendments. [[Which amendments does the committee recommend?]] [[Which amendments?]] As I said, the committee recommends the first amendment extending the scope, that is, Article. Point 1, paragraph 1. 3a. [[What's the number of the amendment-- silence, please.]] [[Voice from the room: 1st and 3rd.]] This is Amendment One in the print that I have. I hope it's the same print. [[First?]] Yeah, first and third. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] Amendments 1 and 3. [[Voice from the room: Now okay.]] Yeah, okay, Amendments One and Three. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u268	Thank you. Do you, Senator Piotr Wach, as an applicant, want to speak? [[No. Thank you kindly.]] Thank you very much, We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on Senator Piotr Wach's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'd like to see the voice-over results, please. 83 senators voted against, 27 against, 56 against. [[Voting No 95]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 allows the Director of the Research Institute to be dismissed in case of reorganisation of the Institute. [[No, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Voice from the room: Against.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 votes, 23 votes, 59 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 96]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 2 deletes one of the grounds for failure of the Director of the State Research Institute. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet again, please. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 votes, 27 votes, 56 against. [[Voting No 97]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 3 correctly formulates a provision allowing the appointment of another person acting as Director of the State Research Institute. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Don't tell me. You can't tell me.]] Please state the results of the vote. 82 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 98]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted... in this case: amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 votes, 57 votes, 26 against. [[Voting No 99]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Research Institutes. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act establishing the Academy of War Arts. The National Defence Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate printing No 177 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 83 votes, 56 votes, 26 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 100]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act establishing the Academy of War Arts. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016. The Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 192 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Just a minute. Please state the results of the vote. 81 votes, 77 votes for, 2 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 101]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons repressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 109 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present an additional report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two committees voted in favour of the first amendment and against the second. [[Applause]] [[It's the next term.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u270	Does the senator, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, want to speak? [[No.]] At present, senators may submit a request to the rapporteur and the applicant for a maximum period of one minute in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? I don't see any volunteers. We'll proceed with the vote. As a first step, the amendments tabled will be voted on. After this vote, we will proceed to the vote on the draft law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 clarifies the provision by direct indication of the separate stages of the adoption and implementation of the decision in place of use In the draft wording of the provisions, the wording of the decision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 79 for, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 102]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 makes the provision complete, pointing out explicitly that the damage and harm for which compensation is granted are due to repression for the activities referred to in the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those who are oppressed for political reasons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Just a second... Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted, 20 for, 50 against, 10 abstentions. [[Voting No 103]] The amendment was rejected. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorise Senator Jan Rulewski to represent the Senate in further work on the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 104]] [[And they say there are divisions in Poland.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Jan Rulewski to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 40th anniversary of the events of June 1976 in Radom, Ursus and Płock. I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 175 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 105]] [[Thrilling applause]] We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the law amending the Act amending the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. The Health Committee has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 193 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 58 for, 24 abstentions. [[Voting No 106]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Act amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. In connection with the adopted resolutions, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of Senate laws by the Sejm committees. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 19th Senate meeting has been exhausted. The next Senate meeting will be held on 15 and 16 June this year. The order of this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. I would like to inform you that an additional Senate meeting will be held on 23 and 24 June. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Which one?]] I repeat: June 23rd and 24th will be an additional Senate meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] As promised, forty minutes. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Interior and Administration, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. Dear Minister, This year, 3 May, the 95th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising passed. The Sejm and the Senate adopted the relevant resolutions on this occasion, in accordance with the historical policy of the Polish state. Unfortunately, it does not agree with this policy, and even ignores the behaviour of the authorities in the Opole Voivodeship. The official anniversary celebrations in Opole did not take place on 3 May, on the anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising, when the public was manifesting on the Holy Mount Anna at the Monument of the Uprising. The Marshal of the voivodship organized the celebration on 21 May, i.e. near the anniversary of the defeat of the Silesian insurgents of the battle for Mount St. Anne. It's been going on for a few years now. The question is, what honors the Marshal of Opole Voivodeship: the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising, or the victory by the Germans from Bavaria of the greatest battle of this Uprising? This change of the date of celebration is part of the historical narrative officially promoted in the German voivodship. The German minority co-organizing in the Seym coalition tries to present the Silesian uprisings as a fratricidal fight against the Upper Silesians, even in defence of the rights of national minorities, and not, in accordance with the truth and the Polish reason of the state, as an armed act of the Silesians in defence of the Polishness of Silesia. Therefore, I ask the Minister why the Opole Voivode took part in the celebrations, giving additional military assistance. Shouldn't a representative of the state and government in the field care about Polish historical policy, a Polish description of events, not submit and directly promote views that are false to history, convenient for the German minority? When will the Polish state celebrate the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising on 3 May on the Holy Mount Anna? I'd like to express my respects. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. [[Applause]] The second statement is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel. Dear Minister, On 14 April the Sejm adopted a law on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. In general, this law aims to reduce speculative, often illegal trade in Polish soil. The main problem with this type of legislation, including this law, is the wording of the text of the provisions in order to make it impossible or very difficult to circumvent them. E.g. I also tabled amendments during the work of the Senate which were to seal this bill. However, they did not find the support of the Minister and your representatives and were therefore not accepted. It didn't take long to get the results. On 16 May this year I participated in a meeting with farmers from the municipality of Kamiennik in Opole region, where issues related to the purchase of land by a company owned by German capital were discussed. It should be added that more than a year earlier, these farmers had strongly protested against the sale of 130 hectares of land by the Agricultural Property Agency for the leasing company. At that meeting, the lawyers representing the company argued that this sale was still possible, even that the company had a claim to acquire this land from ANR, because the transitional provision in Article allows it to do so. 12 of this law, which states that the existing provisions apply to unfinished proceedings concerning the acquisition of agricultural property. I paid attention to this possibility during my Senate work, I tabled an amendment, but the Minister did not approve it. So explain now: why? In this case and in similar cases there is still the possibility of blocking sales. It is sufficient to terminate the sale of real estate by ANR by a decision refusing to do so. Other possible and indicated by me ways of bypassing the law, for example by trading shares and shares of companies, unfortunately cannot be so easily blocked in practice, apart from the obvious legislative path, i.e. the rapid amendment of the law. What I appeal to the Minister for. I also have another, perhaps more important request. At the moment, foreign entities, mainly companies, want to circumvent the law, focus not on purchasing land, but on extending the existing lease agreements for agricultural land of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. They benefit from the contradictions of the provisions of the Law on the Management of Agricultural Property of the State Treasury: Art. Paragraph 24 1, which orders ANR to lease agricultural property in the first place to expand or set up family holdings, and Article. 39, which gives priority to existing tenants, i.e. companies. In addition, the companies are favoured by the orders of the President of ANR No 9/2013 and 8/2015. These entities count on the fact that after the extension of the lease for a further period of 10 or 20 years, after the withdrawal of the PiS from the Government What's gonna happen? The land protection policy will be relaxed and they will be able to acquire land that they will continue to lease. I ask that the Minister does not allow this to happen, which is first of all a commitment by the President of ANR to change the lease regulations and to the relevant guidelines for ANR branches in areas that prefer individual farmers and family farms not only in purchasing but also in the area of land leases from ANR. And then I ask for the necessary legislative initiative to introduce into the abovementioned law desirable and consistent with the Law and Justice policy amendments. I'd like to express my respects. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-senat-19-2.u272	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the nineteenth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The nineteenth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 21 minutes 53]]
